ParlaMint-DK_20170519100005	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100010	The debate is open. We start with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100031	With this resolution, the Socialist People's Party proposes to reinstate the previous admission of a declaration to section 3A of the Act of Accession, thus allowing young people born and raised in Denmark, under certain conditions, to become Danish nationals by making a declaration. I can already say right away, and it is probably not surprising that the government cannot support this motion for a resolution. The proposal will go back to the former legal situation in which young foreigners born in Denmark could become Danish citizens simply by making a statement without requiring a certain level of Danish knowledge and without requiring any knowledge of Danish social conditions. These young people today, on an equal footing with all other foreigners, can apply for Danish citizenship by naturalisation, and they must, of course, fulfil the general conditions in this respect. The declaration access was introduced under the former Social Democratic led government in June 2014 and allowed young people born and raised in Denmark to automatically acquire Danish citizenship by making a statement to the State Administration. It was therefore a very lenient and very easy access for these young people to acquire Danish citizenship. In relation to these young foreigners' Danish knowledge and knowledge and knowledge of Danish social conditions, it was only required that the young people should have completed the 9th class or 10th class of the primary school with a total average character of 02. For persons aged between 18 and 19, no training or character requirements were made and, moreover, it was not included in the scheme that the police intelligence service should assess whether young foreigners could be a threat to the security of the country. The Government does not believe that with these conditions, or rather the absence of conditions, it is sufficient to ensure that Danish citizenship is granted only to persons who are actually integrated into Danish society. When the Danish Parliament repealed its declaration in February 2016, it was with broad support to the then Left Government, and this meant that both the Social Democracy, Liberal Alliance, Danish People's Party and the Conservative People's Party voted in favour. The aim of the legislation was quite clearly to ensure that Danish citizenship is granted to people who are actually integrated into Danish society. So with the rules that we have today, we make sure that only those who really want Denmark will have citizenship. And it remains the government's basic view that the granting of citizenship is of great importance both for the individual and indeed for Danish society, and that high demands must therefore be made when applying for Danish citizenship. Only people who are really integrated and who have shown that they want Denmark to be rewarded with Danish citizenship. That is what has been said again: the government cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100419	Thank you, Minister. And there was just one questioner. Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100424	Thank you. I took note of the Minister's view that we are not making any demands on young people with the proposal that the SF is putting forward today. I would like to take the view that we make an extraordinary number of demands on our young people in relation to attending a primary school, going through an education and learning Danish and all sorts of other things. Is it the Minister's view that in relation to young people with other ethnic backgrounds born and raised in Denmark, we do not make any demands at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100456	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100457	It may well be that demands are being made, but one can say that they are unfortunately not being met. As recently as today there has been an inventory in what is called PISA Ethnic, which has looked at the qualifications of both first generation immigrants and second generation immigrants when they leave primary school. Here you can see that it is actually the case that it goes back, because second-generation immigrants born and raised in Denmark are in many cases doing worse than first-generation immigrants do. And when you can have a situation and that's what we've got now where 40%. of the second generation immigrants who leave primary school come out with a level of 02 and below, then something is wrong. Then you cannot behave properly in Danish society; you do not have the opportunity to get through a youth education; you do not master the language. And then there's something incredibly wrong if you were born and raised here. Then it is just that I say that you should not also have Danish citizenship. The smallest thing, however, is that one masters the language.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100614	I fully agree that there are a lot of young people who are challenged... not all young people are fortunate enough to be born with a silver spoon in their mouths. And it is not all young people who are gifted with parents who have the opportunity to help them through the Danish education system. But isn't a motivation in terms of both taking an education and learning the Danish language and yet not being sure that you will actually become part of Danish society, not a huge challenge to give young people who are already challenged?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100649	I think that is perfectly reasonable. One should not be a Danish citizen if one does not master the language and if one does not have knowledge of the society in which one lives and lives. What we are talking about now is that children and young people who are born and raised in Denmark do not speak Danish at a level so that they can reasonably get through a youth education. And we can also see that the families where you actually speak Danish at home are better off. The only way in which the immigrant families we are talking about here will also speak Danish at home is if parents enter the labour market. So it is not a question of whether you were born with a silver spoon in your mouth or how it was said. It is about taking part in the society in which you live and live. Otherwise, you shouldn't have a Danish citizenship. Actually, I think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100742	Well, then, sir. Christian Langballe got settled and asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100745	I would really like to ask you the basics. In fact, the way this proposal is built up means that the demands made for a final exam in the 9th and 10th grades with a minimum average of 02 do not really matter because you can still get citizenship when you are 18 years old. In other words, the demands contained in this proposal are completely indifferent. You don't have to live up to them. You can just go and get citizenship by declaration when you're 18 years old. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100819	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100821	That is absolutely right. I think sir... Christian Langballe and I take a very similar view of this resolution. Otherwise, I should be very surprised when we get a little further into the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100832	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. Then we will begin with the number of rapporteurs and the first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519100849	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are debating now has a glimmer of re-exportation over it. In fact, we must not go back so long as the Danish Parliament last dealt with the concrete issue that the resolution is also about. It was just over a year ago: in January-February last year. That is why my rapporteur's speech can also be dealt with relatively quickly. It was the case that, with a change of law, we abolished the admission to citizenship of young people born in Denmark and thus removed the automatism which had been in the granting of citizenship to that group of young people for a short period of time. We did so on the part of the Social Democrats with the following assessment, which has no more months on the back than that it can tolerate being used again, namely that it makes sense to seek Danish citizenship on the basis of pre-established criteria that support language, social understanding, democracy, self-reliance and loyalty, also for this group of young people. We said at the time, and I would therefore repeat here today, that we would have liked to have seen that, like the primary school's examination in Danish, it is considered to be necessary proof of the language requirement, it should also be able to replace the birth test. We did not get support for that at the time. People in this Chamber will remember that, and that is why I do not expect any support for it here today. That would be gratifying, but I do not expect it, and certainly not here, from the platform and from the Parliamentary Chamber, since this kind of discussion is best taken place in a negotiating room, where, according to the government, we will at least have the opportunity to sit again at some point. So just to sum up: not surprisingly I can also see from the SF's rapporteur that this is probably not the big shock we reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101035	This gave rise to one brief comment from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101038	We are glad that the Social Democrats do, but the Social Democrats also helped to introduce this access. What was the decisive factor in changing the position of the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101053	Well, as I did in fact quote Mr. Mattias Tesfaye for, who was a maternity vacation for me when this was discussed here, it is from an assessment that it is quite reasonable that there is not an automatic, but that we attach some specific requirements to the acquisition of citizenship, including for this group of young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101111	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101112	Yes, but it was also arguments that we tried to do when the Social Democratic Party was in government. I note, then, that social democracy is a party which has a much more sensible foreign policy when you are in opposition than when you are in government. We can only hope that it will continue in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101130	I think that was more to consider as political teasing than a really substantive speech or question, so I just leave it on such a fine and peaceful Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101139	However, we move on to a new question, namely from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101143	Thank you. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur also acknowledges that the fact that we have tightened up the legislation in this area also means that the very many young ethnic Danes who met the demands of the previous bill have now had a much more uncertain youth and a much greater difficulty in obtaining Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101212	Well, I don't think you have to be so dramatic. I have read it out a little, because I was on maternity leave when we dealt with it here, and I can see in the report's contribution, which, among other things, was. SF itself has submitted to this amendment of the law that it states that the vast majority of the people who were the target group for the declaration access which is now proposed to be abolished will, after all, receive Danish citizenship. I think you were right about that when you wrote it from the SF. Yeah, so it's not that dramatic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101243	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101250	Thank you, President. This proposal draws one in more than one sense old travert from the stable. Not only did the previous Red Government put forward the proposal in 2014, but it was actually also the practice in force before 2001 and was changed on our recommendation. In this way, there is nothing new under the sun. I guess it's the same argument and the same ideology that drives this proposal forward as it did then. It is about whether young people born and raised here in Denmark can obtain citizenship by declaration. I remember the debate from 2014 when the proposal was tabled last time. It was under the Social Democratic led Thorning government, or perhaps the radically-led Thorning government should be said. Karen Hækkerup was Minister of Justice. My criticism back then was about the same as it is today. The proposal is all in the wrong direction. To put it differently, it is simply an incredibly bad proposal which is not at all on the level of reality but rests on utopian vision of dreams. It is proposed that young people born and raised in the country should be able to obtain citizenship through the elementary school's final examinations in the 9th and 10th grade and with a low cut of 02. Yes, that is to say, they do not have to have that cut at all, because when they are 18, they can in any case obtain citizenship by declaration. But why make any kind of demands at all when they can obtain citizenship in any case? Actually, I don't understand. There would be some logic in the proposal if that were the case, but the proposal makes demands on young people that they do not have to meet at all. I'm just kidding. The crucial reason why we cannot support the proposal is, however, a different and far more fundamental reason. It is simply a question of the approach to reality, in which I believe that for many years the left has suffered from denial of reality in the field of foreigners and also in the area of citizenship. You'd rather live in utopian dreaming devices that have nothing to do with reality, and you'd rather pour humanistic pussies like a kind of sweet-ladyed sticking cream on reality, hoping that reality will change just by sweet talk. If this proposal is adopted, people who speak incredibly badly Danish or in principle do not speak Danish at all will be able to obtain citizenship. If the proposal is adopted, totally inappropriate second and third generation immigrants will be able to acquire citizenship, although they may despise and hate everything Denmark stands for. The underlying premise in the proposal is an idea of them and of us. Yeah, it's something that's such an old travert that it goes on crutches them and us. That is being said all the time and over and over again. Then it is said that young people are not integrated because they are put in booths, and if they only get citizenship, they become almost Danish model citizens. It is therefore a premise that we in the Danish People's Party do not share at all because reality tells otherwise. Moreover, it is no harm at all to make demands, it is actually necessary in all the circumstances of life, and I think that we are doing these young people a favour by making linguistic demands that enable them to be integrated and to take part in the ordinary life of the Danish state. But we will vote no, we did so in 2014, and we will do so again now. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101723	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further, and that is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left Party, on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519101740	Thank you. Under the Social Democratic Government, a provision was introduced into the law of citizenship, which meant that foreigners born and raised in Denmark automatically acquired Danish citizenship by making a statement to the State Administration. This happened if you were 15 years old and had passed the primary school's graduation exam with the grade 02, but if you couldn't, you had to be 18 years old. So if you were able to stay 18 years within the country's borders, you got per. automatic Danish citizenship. Not even an assessment by PET of whether a threat to the security of the empire was to be made. We were against this in the Left, but still it was adopted, and it did so with the votes of the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the SF. When we got a new government, we took that opportunity away again. We repealed the declaration access for young foreigners born and raised in Denmark. So it is certainly not a great surprise to anyone that I can say that the Left does not support the motion for a resolution, which will require the government to reinstate the very same opportunity that we ourselves, not so terribly long ago, have abolished. I agree that for a great many young people in the group we are talking about, it is quite smooth to give Danish citizenship, but for them it will not be very difficult to meet the requirements that need to be met. For example, they are not going to a Danish exam, because if you have attended school and passed your exams, you can Danish, so of course you shouldn't. So it is the test of birth, it is crime, for example, and it is the PET assessment, which is one of the reasons why you may not be able to obtain citizenship after all. So this thing about going in and saying that there is a particular group that is not going through the application process, which most others are going through, is therefore unfortunately problematic, one can say, because unfortunately there are young people who have been born and raised in Denmark with foreign parents who have not become Danish. You can be annoyed about that, but it is a fact, and we do not think that you should be able to withdraw your citizenship from an automatic machine on the day of your 18th birthday. We must ensure that the people we give citizenship are also Danish and that they meet the requirements we make. Danish citizenship is the finest one can be awarded by Danish society, which is why it is also fair, and it is also appropriate that young people born and raised in Denmark should fulfil the same conditions as we expect from other foreigners, and you are a foreigner if you are born of foreign parents. So, on this basis, I have to say again that the Left cannot therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102049	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next is Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102059	Young people born and raised in Denmark have been said many times on the platform, and it is quite true that we are talking about young people born in Denmark who have lived here all their lives but who do not automatically get a passport. I was also born in Denmark, but I automatically got a passport. I know that there are many young people who think it is strange and actually view it as a way of being pushed away from society that, even though they were born here, they have been here all their lives, they have to go up to such a Danishism test, where they have to answer a lot of questions in which their classmates do not have to be tested, to prove that they are now real Danes. If you want integration, if you want to associate the people born in this country with the Danish society, it is strange to say to them: you were born in Denmark, you have been here all your life, Denmark is your country, but you must be tested in whether you are now real Danes. I am regularly approached, and I am sure others in the Chamber do, from young people, such as myself. are prevented from going on a study trip because they do not have a Danish passport. Who the hell gets anything out of it? I would like to thank the SF for putting forward this proposal, which would, of course, be to reinstate legislation which was adopted in 2014 and which was therefore about young people born and raised in Denmark being able to obtain citizenship by declaration rather than having to go through this very long road, which is to try to be included in a bill on the communication of citizenship with the tests that it now requires, and I believe, moreover, that the time of proceedings at present. is 14-16 months. Young people born in Denmark, of course, belong here, but then the Minister thunders out that there are so many young people who do not speak properly Danish and cannot do well enough in school. Well, that's a huge problem. I have not met a single person who does not think it is a huge problem that too many young people who have parents from other countries and too many children who have parents from other countries are not doing well enough in school. They do not come out of primary school with an examination that means that they have the skills that actually need to be able to cope with the Danish labour market. I don't know anyone who doesn't think it's a problem. Are we helping young people by making it harder for them to obtain Danish citizenship? If they get better at Danish, they get better at mathematics because we say to them: You may have been born here and you have lived here your whole life, but we're gonna test you if you're a real Dane now? They don't get any better at Danish and mathematics. I certainly do not think we are doing these young people a favour, but we are not doing the Danish community a favour either. We have a larger and larger group of citizens who live in this country, are born here or have been here for most of their lives, but who do not have full rights like the rest of us, as for example. cannot travel around the world, just as we can travel around the world with our Danish passports, and it's great, for example. When we're going on a study trip and who can't go down to vote for a parliamentary election, you can't. Who is it good for, in other words, to have a larger and larger group which does not have full rights in society and which is regarded as such as B-citizens, even though they are born here? That is not good for cohesion, and that is not good for integration. We support the SF proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102454	Thank you. One brief question just came from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102500	Thank you. I just want to try to understand Enhedslisten and understand if there are any limits to who you think should not have Danish citizenship. Unfortunately, it is not very many young people who violate Chapters 12 and 13 of the Penal Code, i.e. crimes against the nation, such as terrorism, and it could also be espionage. But, unfortunately, it is terrorism that is the most important thing. Does the Enhedslisten think that it is trouble-free that the group we are talking about here is not even assessed by PET in order to determine whether they represent a safety risk?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102544	Yes, I think that is a problem-free one, because I actually think it is quite fair that, if you were born in Denmark, you get a Danish citizenship, just as I got a Danish citizenship. I was also born in Denmark. If you commit crime, no matter what kind of crime it is, you have to be punished, just like I have to be punished if I commit crime. In fact, I do not see what the purpose of ensuring that these young people do not have citizenship should be. It could then be said that if they do not have citizenship, it could be that they could be expelled. Well, first of all, if they were born in Denmark, the probability that there is a country to which they can be expelled is very small if they as adults commit crime, and secondly, if they were born in Denmark, I do not think that they should be expelled to any other country. Then they must be punished like all other people who commit crime in Denmark. There are, of course, countries in the world where, if you were born in that country, you would, in fact, more or less automatically acquire citizenship, and I think that makes an incredibly good sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102650	The aim should be to ensure that young people who, despite being born and raised in Denmark, hate Denmark so much that they want to commit terrorism, do not get Danish citizenship. Thus, foreign parents have come to Denmark and have had children in Denmark and have raised some children who have evolved into terrorists, and these think Enhedslisten should of course have Danish citizenship. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102720	Right now there is a very, very unhappy case with a girl, a young woman who has committed some very serious crimes. She is a Danish citizen, she has ethnic Danish parents. Of course, she must be punished for the serious crimes, and hopefully she will get a help that means that she could never plan something like that another time. Who would it help to take her citizenship away from her? Who would it help if she had no citizenship? She was born in Denmark, she is planning serious crime... what she is doing is illegal... and of course she must be punished for that. As I said, this discussion is about people who were born in Denmark and have lived their entire lives in Denmark. If they commit crime or plan crime, they must be punished just as I must be punished if I commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102812	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102821	The proposal here seeks to restore access for young people over 12 years of age born in Denmark to obtain citizenship outside the general requirements by making a declaration. We in the Liberal Alliance believe that the demands we make today on people who want Danish citizenship are perfectly reasonable: that one should be able to speak Danish, that one should not be a criminal, that one should know about Danish culture and history, and that one should be self-supporting. And we believe that we should have very, very strong reasons to be able to ignore these. For it is in Denmark's interest to ensure that only those who seriously want Denmark in word and in action will become Danish citizens. And an essential part of it is that you master the language at a proper level and that you have an understanding of the Danish culture. There is currently a debate about the fact that when young people start school they are not good enough to speak Danish, which means that they are lagging behind for the rest of their school hours. We therefore believe that it is absolutely essential that we do not send out a signal from here to parents that they should relax in Danish, that is to say that they should relax in the language requirements. On the contrary, we must send a strong signal from this that it is absolutely essential that children also learn the Danish language. That is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102946	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519102955	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the SF. In the alternative, of course, we support this motion for a resolution, B 110. We find it very positive that the SF is tabling the motion for a resolution that young foreigners born and raised in Denmark can obtain Danish citizenship by declaration. In other words, they really get easier to obtain Danish citizenship, and that is good. Unfortunately, I have also heard many unfortunate stories from young people, the group that the rapporteur of the Left has mentioned can freely acquire citizenship. But then why put down all these leg buckles? Why all those leg buckles? Of course, we must ensure easier and faster access for this group of young people. When the demands were tightened back in November 2015, our then rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, said: "In the alternative, we are completely opposed to this part of the proposal, which we find so much opposed to integration and cohesion in society. We see it as a symbolic intervention which introduces a harmful distinction between them and us, rather than seeking a greater we. It cannot be said more clearly, and it must be made clear. Today we are taking a step in the right direction in relation to a larger we and towards a more inclusive community. And that's good, really good. In the alternative, however, we would like the SF to have gone further and removed some of the demands made. That is why we would like to table an amendment which does not include the part of B 110 which sets out a number of other requirements. In the alternative, we believe that when you are born in Denmark, when you are raised in Denmark, when you have gone to school in Denmark and have Danish friends, you have every reason to feel Danish. That signal we think is extremely important to send if our young people in Denmark are to feel at home, and they should; and we believe that it has a great inclusive value. As I said, we support the proposal, but we want to go further. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103208	Thank you to the rapporteur. For the time being, there is one brief comment, and that is from Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103213	Thank you. I do not think I have been quite clear enough, and I am sorry about that. But this group does not get a problem-free Danish citizenship today, because they have to go up to the birth test, and they have to be checked by PET, for example. So what I asked was whether one could not see a problem in that the PET test was not carried out, for example. But then I would like to ask the Alternative something because on this point the Alternative and Enhedslisten reminds quite a lot of each other: Now we are talking about being born and raised in Denmark, but what if you have come here as quite small, for example. 3 years old or 5 years old? Then why not also have a declaration in those cases?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103258	I will not rule that out at all, but that is not what we are discussing today. It is perfectly obvious that if you are born and raised in Denmark, you can be allowed to be Danish. So that is what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103312	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103314	Yes, that is what we are discussing. Well, I'm trying to figure out how far the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are willing to go in terms of when you per. automatics must be able to obtain Danish citizenship. For example, we can take one such as Gypsy boss Gimi Levakovic, who came here at 3 but does not have Danish citizenship. So what I can deduce is that such a person as him seems the alternative also per. Mr President, I should like to make a few comments on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103346	Now you have the habit of pulling some pretty special examples out of the drawer or bag, or whatever to call it. I find that a little difficult to relate to. As I said before, we have a large group of young people who feel that a whole lot of leg buckles are being set up, so that a great deal is being done to prevent them from acquiring Danish citizenship and thus really feel like part of Danish society. I don't want to hide the fact that we want to change the way we look at this completely. However, I believe that it would be too far to begin to give a full account of the alternative's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103430	There's one more question, and it's from mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103432	Finally, I think the rapporteur should do so. I have tried in vain to get an answer from the Enhedslisten as to what they really think it takes to obtain Danish citizenship, and I have never received a clear answer. I have also asked the alternative and Mrs Josephine Fock about the same thing, and I have not received a clear answer from it either. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: what does the rapporteur think it takes to obtain Danish citizenship? Should you be able to speak Danish?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103504	Now it is the case that, in order to be eligible for Danish citizenship, we must have permanent residence, and we can say that some quite strict requirements are already being made. As I said to the rapporteur before, we do not agree with the way this long line of leg buckles is drawn up to feel Danish and to be part of Denmark. We believe that it should be done in a completely different way, but I cannot start standing here and sketching it out. We have some suggestions on how to do this in a different way, and it has to be done in a completely different way from what is shown by the criteria in this proposal, but also in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103556	I think that the rapporteur can present the political position of citizenship. There is also such a rather strange and strange wording, which is reflected in the rapporteur's description of it, i.e. leg buckles, and that making demands is leg buckles. Is it to make demands in school leg buckles, i.e. also in relation to ordinary Danes who have Danish citizenship? Is that leg buckle? Is it leg buckle that they have to go up to the exam to show and demonstrate what they can do? Well, that's a long discussion. I don't think it's leg buckles. In fact, I think that you are doing the young people a favour by making demands on them, but I just want to hear: what are these demands or lack of demands? What does Enhedslisten want with citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103641	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103643	Now I can't explain what Enhedslisten wants. I think that was a statement by the rapporteur. When additional requirements are added to what is already required as a Danish young person and what is required of all our children in Denmark, then I think it is leg buckle. For a child who was born and raised in Denmark, here is on an equal footing with my two sons, and if a whole lot of demands are to be made on top of that, I think it is leg buckles.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103720	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then we go to the radical rapporteur, and that is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, speaking from his place. I give him the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519103732	Thank you. In Denmark I was born, there I have home, there I am messed up, from where my world goes. That's how Hans Christian Andersen wrote, and it just doesn't get any more Danish, and then you can pack sausage cars and meatballs together. Because I couldn't have said it better than the national romantic himself, Hans Christian Andersen; he had and has got hold of the long end. In Denmark I was born, I have home. You know, if you were born in Denmark, you're a Dane, and that's where you have home. So let us be inspired by Hans Christian Andersen and by the healthy principle that if you were born and raised in Denmark, you are Dane. You have grown up with Danish culture and under Danish conditions, you have walked on the Danish fields, and you have stood under an oak tree. Many of them know nothing else, and what more can we ask for? Children and young people born and raised in Denmark should be given citizenship easily. That is why we introduced into the SR government the possibility that they could obtain citizenship at the State Administration without having to go through everything else that would be necessary to obtain citizenship. Unfortunately, the Left Government abolished the possibility in 2016. We in the Radical Left felt that this was a wrong resolution and that is why we support this motion for a resolution. I believe that it matters to the cohesion of Denmark that young people become citizens when they have lived their entire lives here, went to school and have their family and friends here, and do not have to go through some game of Besserwisser or Trivial Pursuit with 40 questions to get through. I do not agree with the government that there should not be enough control over who gets citizenship, because there are demands in this motion for a resolution that you should have passed the primary school's final examination or be between 18 and 19 years of age. One must have lived in Denmark for at least 12 years and not be convicted of crime. Access to a declaration is a good and effective way of doing so, and we in the Radical Left continue to work for criteria for derogations to be laid down in the Folketing, so that the vast majority of people can obtain citizenship through the birthright office or with a statement rather than through the Committee on Bodily Rights. This will ensure legal certainty and transparency, which is why we are fully committed to implementing the previous section 3a of the law on citizenship. Because in Denmark I was born, I have home, and then it just isn't anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104038	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104044	Thank you. I would just like to ask whether the Radical Left could agree to the safety assessment of those concerned by PET.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104056	I think it must be up to PET to assess on an ongoing basis who is to be approved in one way or another. It is a little strange that some people are born in Denmark, and some others are also born in Denmark, who are not required to do the same. So it is such a strange distinction that should be made there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104119	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104120	No, it's not that weird. Because that gives us the opportunity to expel the person concerned. If this safety assessment turns out to be true, that is to say that the person concerned is a risk and is doing something later, then we cannot expel him if he has first become a Danish national unless he has another nationality. So this is a relevant consideration, and unfortunately it often happens that we say no to citizenship to some people who are considered by PET to be a security threat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104158	I am fully confident that if PET had to have any facts that would have to be invoked about different people, they will. But the fact that you have to go in and check all kinds of things all the time, and the fact that there is a difference, that is, that for some born in Denmark, there are some things that apply, and that for some others who are also born in Denmark, there are some other things that apply, I just think is a completely wrong principle and a completely wrong approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104223	Then we thank the radical rapporteur and move on to the Conservative rapporteur, and that is Mr Conservatives. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104229	Inspired by the last speaker: In Denmark I was not born, but here I have home. I applied for Danish citizenship at the age of 18 and had to be among other things. for a conversation in the police station with a police officer, and I had to meet a lot of criteria, and I think that's very fair. Because it's not a legal requirement in Denmark that you get citizenship, but it's something special that we have to assign people who make an effort to become part of this society. That is also why, in the Conservatives, we want even stricter rules in relation to people who have fundamental anti-democratic attitudes. We would really like to see an even better screening of the people who hate our democracy. They should not be granted Danish citizenship even if they meet some of the other criteria. So we hope and expect that the government is on the way to reform its citizenship, and we look forward to that. SF's motion for a resolution that young foreigners born in Denmark should be able to become Danish citizens simply by making a statement, without requiring any Danish knowledge at a certain level or knowledge of Danish social conditions, we are not in favour of. We are not going back to the rules that applied in the past. We also think it is important, at a time when we are threatened by people who have radicalised attitudes, that the secret service should come in on applications. They must assess whether young foreigners could be a threat to the security of the country. Danish citizenships must be given to people who are actually integrated and who contribute positively to Denmark and who want Denmark, and therefore we reject the SF's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104441	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104449	Thank you for the debate. With this resolution, the SF has wanted to send a strong signal to young people born and raised in Denmark, who often know nothing else, that we do not regard them as them, but as us. In a parliamentary year with a great many debates on integration in particular, it would have been a beautiful signal that the Folketing ended the debates with recognition that we ourselves are not creating the opposite. We make incredible demands on young people with different ethnic backgrounds. They often have to do everything twice as well and try twice as hard with ethnic Danes to prove that they will be part of society. And with the change of law last year, we have also made the lives of young people much more uncertain, because they now have to be tested on an equal footing with adults in various tests, etc. in order to obtain citizenship and, above all, to ensure that the life they have lived so far can be continued with friends and family, social activities, education and much more. It is precisely the most wonderful thing about being young that dreams can be realized right where life lies before you, but that requires the necessary security. Our young people, all young people, must already have a very early reaction to how they think their adult lives should evolve. They must decide early on whether they will try to qualify for high school or whether they dream of becoming mechanics or social and health assistants. It is also a fact that they are able to enter adulthood while they are in education. Youth also includes time for falling in love, time for traveling into the world, time for family plans, and much more. Long-term and laborious procedures not only make these young people unequal to ethnic Danes, precisely the Danish young people whom we want them to look like, we also make life really difficult for them. In the SF we believe that we in the Folketing have a responsibility to create hope and show confidence in young people. That's what these kids are growing off. That's what makes good people. That is why I am also sorry that there is a lack of support for the proposal. I do not wish to deny that we are going to put it again at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104722	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jan E. Jørgensen, so the rapporteur needs to stand still.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104729	After all, the SF no longer has to take account of social democracy. That is why I am actually surprised that it is simply being retabled. Why don't you just remove this vanity requirement? Why should you not obtain Danish citizenship by declaration, even if you have committed crime? Why do you have to be born here? Isn't it enough to come here when you were three or five? What would this proposal look like if you were not just to retable an earlier proposal, but wholeheartedly went in and conducted SF's policy in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104808	That is because the SF thought it was an excellent proposal, which we unfortunately cancelled last year. We are reintroducing it because we think it is a fair way of doing things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104821	The SF therefore believes it is reasonable to meet a number of requirements if you have come here as an infant, and the SF considers it reasonable that you should meet a number of requirements if you have committed crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104838	After all, what the proposal is about is re-establishing the old rules, that is to say the rules that were removed last year, and it is precisely the aim that children who have come here as young people can also have the same and equal opportunities as others. I think it is essential that we give young people hope. And if young people are to be integrated into Danish society, they must be integrated on an equal footing with all sorts of other young people, and we have to believe that this can be done and that we also have a legal system that takes care of it if it is the case that you commit crime or something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104924	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104940	The debate is open. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519104959	With this motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party proposes that the government should abolish the provisions on dual citizenship, so that one cannot have another citizenship, while at the same time having a Danish citizenship. I would like to say straight away that the government cannot support the desire to change these rules. Since 1 September 2015, we have accepted dual citizenship in Denmark, and there are actually lots of Danes who have appreciated and appreciate it very much both at home and abroad. On the basis of the dual nationality rules, it is no longer a requirement for foreign nationals to give up their original nationality in order to become Danish nationals, just as Danish nationals can retain theirs. It is important, I think, to bear in mind that the rules on dual citizenship actually have significance in relation to our ability to disclaim people who do not want Denmark, Danish citizenship. It follows from the law of citizenship that a person convicted of a violation of the provisions of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code may, by judgment, be deprived of his nationality unless he thereby becomes a stateless person. After all, Chapters 12 and 13 of the Penal Code relate, among other things, to: crimes against the State's independence and security, the Constitution and the Supreme State authorities, as well as terrorism. I am thinking, for example, of Danish citizens travelling to Syria and joining terrorist movements. If these people are nationals of a country other than Denmark at the same time, we have the possibility of denying them Danish citizenship by judgment. We cannot do that if they have abandoned their original citizenship. So the double citizenship rules also mean that we have a greater opportunity in the end to be able to expel some of the people that we certainly do not want to be here in Denmark. And I have to say that this is a set of rules that we in the government value very much. With those words, I can say that the government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution that has been tabled here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105241	This gave rise to a brief remark by Mr Beyer de Ryke. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105247	I would simply like to know how many people have been denied their nationality after the dual nationality has been introduced and how many have subsequently been expelled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105304	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105305	Well, we have actually seen examples of having been denied Danish citizenship, at least in the first instance it may well be that some of it will go on. But then it's gonna be about getting these people expelled, and it's not necessarily that I'm happy to admit an easy case, but the opportunity is now available. It didn't before. And I can guarantee you, sir. Christian Langballe for that is one of the things we're going to work hard on in the future, that is to say getting some of these people kicked out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105344	Then Mr. Christian Langballe just to press in before the minister went down. Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105353	Thanks, that was great. Yes, but I'm just saying it because if it's the main argument that you can get someone off their citizenship, i.e. this dual citizenship, then I don't think it's quite valid. There are also some other things that are of great importance here. I would like the Minister to comment on the fact that during the Turkish election campaign, in other words the election campaign in Turkey with Erdogan, we saw how elections were also conducted in Denmark. I mean, it's one of those things. I would like to remind you of the consequences of dual citizenship. And I would like the Minister to comment on whether she thinks that the kind of fifth-pillar activity which extends a semi-dictatorship for a head of state in Turkey is compatible with the fact that one then votes for the Danish Parliament. Actually, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105443	In any case, it must be said that this is something that is then possible. I have to say, therefore, that I simply weigh up the possibility of having some of the people that we certainly do not want in Denmark, i.e. people who, for example, have been expelled. are convicted of terrorism, very, very high. That is one of the reasons, one of the main reasons why I voted in favour of dual citizenship at the time. And I'm gonna assume that mr. Christian Langballe also wants these people expelled. We just didn't have that opportunity before, but we do now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105520	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105524	I am about to go to Flensburg and Schleswig next week with the Sydslesvig Committee, and it occurred to me that if the Danish People's Party succeeded in adopting such a proposal as this, it would mean that the minority dancers who live in Sydslesvig, who have sought dual citizenship, would have to choose between Danish and German again, i.e. if you cancel the dual citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105553	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105555	That would certainly be the immediate significance of that, but I do not believe that this proposal will actually receive such support in the Folketing that it would have to be faced with that election.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105609	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105611	No, I hope not, but I just want to know if it was the consequence for the minority that they would then have to choose either German or Danish citizenship and could not have both citizenships in the future if it were adopted. I want to know the consequences of such a proposal. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105627	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105630	Now I know that Enhedslisten often operates in such a world that may be slightly outside the world in which all of us live. Yes, it will immediately mean that, but again, it doesn't seem that this proposal gets much support here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105649	Then we thank the Minister. Then we are in the middle of the series of rapporteurs, and that is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519105659	Thank you. It may not surprise many that we in the Social Democratic Party, as the government, do not support the resolution we are debating today either. It may well be that it is not outright re-submission in the debate.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Now that the Danish People's Party proposes to abolish it, one can read in the arguments of the motion for a resolution that a Danish citizenship expresses loyalty and commitment, something that the Danish People's Party does not believe you can have for two countries. I also believe that as a Danish citizen we must be loyal to Denmark. In addition, you sign a statement that you want to be when you apply for Danish citizenship. What, then, is loyalty? It is, of course, a sense of responsibility and attachment to something or someone and a willingness to fight for it and commit to it. I looked it up in the dictionary, also just to see what wording is used there, and it is defined as full support and fidelity. It is, of course, something that lies in the individual's identity, it is at the heart of man, and in this way it does not make much sense to me that we, as a state, should legislate on the basis of a generalisation that within ourselves all people can only hold that loyalty to a single country. There is also a reference in the motion for a resolution to the original interpretation of the birthright both in the constitution and in the time to the wording of section 44 here in the constitution, and not to be polemical or anything, I would just like to say a little cautiously that now we are so a few years later here in 2017, and how the constitution was understood in 1849, we cannot use as a definitive argument in this context. It is fine and important to have an interest in our history and what we get from, but when we stand in this Chamber, we are not, after all, legislating for the past, but for the future, and that is what we did when we allowed dual citizenship. The fact that we in Denmark have the opportunity to have dual citizenship is of benefit to many and not to anyone's detriment. That one chooses to apply for Danish citizenship and achieves it by meeting the demands that we make, that is to say, that one binds and commits to Denmark in this way, I think is positive, since it is indeed a question of people who have their lives here in Denmark who have lived here for many, many years, who support themselves and theirs, abide by the laws of the country, speak the language. That those people choose to become Danish citizens, I think is a plus. They reach out to our community and commit themselves to the country where they already live their lives. So dual citizenship is not an expression of a lack of belonging or an opt-out, but an active option. Having the possibility of dual citizenship strengthens the sense of belonging to Denmark for a number of people who live and live here and have their family and working life here. And, of course, this is also true with the reverse sign for the small quarter of a million Danes who have taken advantage of the opportunity to retain their citizenship around the world and who, with these rules, can now choose to commit themselves fully to the country in which they have their lives. So without further words we can reject the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110019	However, a few more words are being beaten from Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110023	I would say that reality demonstrates that there can be and will be conflicts of loyalty. Now I mentioned the elections in Turkey. I certainly believe that this is a dual-standard conflict of loyalty with regard to Turkey, with regard to the extension of such a semi-dictatorship, and with regard to Denmark, where there is a completely different framework for the regime of the people. Isn't there a conflict in that? I simply think that reality demonstrates this. Is there not a conflict in the fact that Turkish politicians will campaign in Denmark for an election that is taking place in Turkey? Isn't there a conflict in that? I think there certainly is. If it is the future that dual citizenship will mean that foreign politicians start campaigning in Denmark, that is intolerable. I just think that one should at least acknowledge that loyalty actually plays a very concrete and practical role.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110133	I think, in fact, that Mr. Christian Langballe points out something very central, namely that in today's Denmark we have a whole lot of very important cultural struggles that we must engage in and have to fight, which has not been done. There were also reactionaries and anti-democratic people and organisations in ethnic environments before we allowed dual citizenship, and that does not mean that it was not important to go against it at that time. I think it is quite right to point out the hypocrisy of sitting in freedom in Denmark and voting to restrict the freedom of other people. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I think that the indisposed is a good word to describe if foreign politicians are to conduct an active election campaign in Denmark. That's where we're all in line. I also think that good socialist group colleagues have gone into that struggle, both based on their local constituencies and based on their own background. It is an important battle, but it is not a struggle that stands and falls by whether there is dual citizenship. Sir, I'm afraid so. I guess Christian Langballe recognizes as well. So this is not something that has arisen with the introduction of dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110237	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110241	No, well, I'm just pointing to what the rapporteur said about loyalty... that you could have two loyalties. In other words, two loyalties which are totally contrary to each other can be included in the principle and the political and ideological aspects. I think that is an absurd claim, because then it is not the same loyalty that we are talking about. But leave it alone. In relation to this whole area of citizenship: I would have liked to have stuck to the original rule of the constitution as to what citizenship is. Then we wouldn't have stood in this miser like we do today. I really think so. Too many citizenships have been awarded. Too many citizenships have been poured out to people who do not speak Danish. We would not have got into that situation at all if the spirit of the constitution had been followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110326	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110330	One can say that there are some things that have changed in the world since 1849 and much, mostly, for the better. A few times you may well fall into a little nostalgia. I myself have three very specific examples in my company where Mother has one citizenship and Father has another citizenship, and that is perhaps the very best example of some of the situations we are facing today, besides that, Mr President. Jan E. Jørgensen referred to the fact that he loved his own children equally last time we discussed this. Then you put those parents before an impossible choice: should our child be a national, as a mother, or as a father? It was just that Grundtvig did not have that problem before. That's why we're gonna have to take these discussions with us into our present. When we legislate, as I also said, we legislate for the future and not for the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110417	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110432	Personally, it is probably one of the major political victories I have experienced when we agreed in 2014 that we should allow dual citizenship. I was rapporteur then and was received by a lot of happy people with flags and champagne, and I don't know what. It was Danes who had moved out of Denmark and lived elsewhere, who now had the opportunity to obtain dual citizenship. They had simply not been able to get themselves to renounce Danish citizenship, even though they had lived for many years in another country. And so it was foreigners who lived in Denmark, but who had become Danes and wanted to be citizens of Denmark, but also could not get themselves to renounce their original citizenship. So it was, in my view, a very good and progressive decision that we made for the benefit of a great many people. But I acknowledge that it was a difficult decision. It was also in the Confederal Group of the Left. For it was a paradigm shift, where it was decided to have a convention which prohibited dual citizenship and which Denmark had acceded to, but which a number of countries had abandoned because the world had changed. Because we live in a globalised world. We live in a world where people of great style move across borders and cross borders. And yes, it's a mess. That's it. The world is a messy place. One could also say that the world is a motley place to use a more positively charged word. But we think it is quite reasonable to take stock of the fact that the world has changed. Since our 1849 constitution, it has done so, but it has done so over recent decades. So now foreigners who have moved to Denmark and become Danish citizens have the opportunity to maintain a link with their countries of origin, and Danes who have moved out into the world and become nationals of other countries have also been allowed to retain their Danish citizenship. I do not think you should have been very many minutes in Solvang, for example, on the west coast of the United States to find out that it is therefore possible to be American and Dane and love both countries, even very much. Basically, I am convinced that there is no reason to force people to make choices that are not necessary. Therefore, there is no need to force anyone to abandon their original citizenship because they want to be citizens of a new country. In my world it is perfectly possible to love both her old and her new homeland very much, just as Mrs Astrid Krag said I said earlier about my two children, Kamma and Valdemar: I also love them equally, and it would be impossible for me to have to choose between them. However, I have a feeling that my arguments about globalisation and double fatherland love may not give rise to a great deal of response from the Danish People's Party. So instead, as the minster did, I would like to draw the attention of the Danish People's Party to another added value of the dual citizenship rules. Because the rules are of great importance to our ability to disclaim Danish citizenship from people who, in one way or another, have certainly not proved to be Danes, but are actually anti-Danish, anti-Democrats. This applies, for example, to the Syrians, whom we in this Chamber were discussing precisely on the basis of a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, which wanted it to be made clear that it would be possible to deprive Syrians of their Danish citizenship. As I had a little discussion with Mr. Christian Langballe about, it is clear from the law of citizenship that those who are convicted of violation of the provisions of Chapters 12 and 13 of the Criminal Code, and these are the two chapters which deal with crimes against the State, i.e. syrianskrige And that makes sense, because it is only if those citizens are nationals of a country other than Denmark at the same time that it makes sense to deprive them of their citizenship at all. Because if we want to expel people from Denmark, we must have a country to which we can deport them. We can't just say you're going out. We also have to tell them where they are going, and we also have to make sure that that country has an obligation to accept them, and that is what they do if they are nationals of the other country. So you have to do away with yourself, whether you put the possibility of denying Syrians their citizenship at the top of the list, or whether you put the desire to abolish dual citizenship at the top of the list. You can't have both. With these words, I come to my conclusion, which I hope will not surprise anyone: the Left cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110931	It called for a single brief remark from Mr. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519110936	After all, we disagree on something quite fundamental in terms of loyalty. I believe that the conflict of loyalty that I have tried to outline with Turkey as an example actually speaks its own clear language. But leave it alone. After all, the thing about being able to disqualify citizenship has been regarded as such a really important argument. In other words, Said Mansour was sentenced to citizenship, although there were only one citizenship rules. It actually happened. And how many did it actually come to be? Is that one, or what? So I don't really see what that weighty argument is, 'cause I don't think it's gonna mean the big deal about this. And when you finally come up with such weighty arguments that you think really matters, I think that reality demonstrates whether it is weighty or just something you say that way because you think it sounds good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111040	Well Said Mansour was deprived of his Danish citizenship precisely because he had dual citizenship. If he has not had dual citizenship, we could not have deprived him of Danish citizenship. Then he'd be stateless, and then we couldn't show him anywhere, because there's not such a stateless little thing where you can pick up these people. It therefore requires a country to which they can be expelled. And since then there has been a Syrian warrior who has been deprived of his citizenship, who also had dual citizenship. It is true that in the past there have been some who had problems with being solved from their former nationality, and we have then allowed mercy to go to the Committee on the Rights of the Child and said that it would then be possible to obtain citizenship anyway, because we had had the difficulties of being solved from the previous citizenship. But there are also a number of countries where this solution can be found, and it has also become easier for a number of countries to be resolved. And now we are not calling for a solution at all. This means that in future it will become the rule rather than the exception that, when you acquire Danish citizenship, you will not be freed from your former nationality and thus become a double national.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111142	I just have to say that the fact that I would have liked to have denounced some of their citizenship does not mean that I would then become a supporter of dual citizenship. It is something absolutely crucial and, in principle, for me and for us as a party, that the loyalty that you have as a citizen is linked to a single country. That is simply what is crucial, and the other conditions must give way. It's just the way it is. And I'm happy to admit that. It may seem strange in the rapporteur's mind, but it does not actually do so in my opinion, because I believe that the crucial principle of linking one's loyalty and love to Denmark is important. It has a far, far deeper meaning than the immediate general political agenda as it is now. This is something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111236	Well, I have full respect for that point of view, but one must also accept that there is a consequence, i.e. that the other conditions must give way, as Mr. Christian Langballe says. So we cannot expel people once they have acquired Danish citizenship. We fully agree that we must be careful who we give Danish citizenship. The previous debate was, in fact, a very good example of the fact that we in the Left do not just think that we should get it per. automatic, the day you turn 18 if you have lived in Denmark and have not committed crime. But so, this automatic admission of Danish citizenship, we quite agree with the Danish People's Party that we should not have. But here we just disagree. If DF recognises that there are therefore negative consequences in removing dual citizenship, then we do not need to discuss it anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111325	Neither do we, because we thank the rapporteur and move on to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111335	In 2014, a broad majority in the Danish Parliament adopted, including among others: the current governing parties of the Left and the Liberal Alliance, to modernise our legislation on citizenship, so that it was generally possible to have a different citizenship alongside the Danish one. And I mean really modernising, because it was adapting the law to the reality in which we live, namely that there are many people living in Denmark who have lived here for years, who feel Danish, who may be Danish married and have Danish children, but originally come from another country and feel that they still feel association with the country from which they originally come. It really was a natural step to take, because, as I said, there are many people who live in Denmark with a different citizenship, but who have a very natural desire to belong to Denmark and at the same time maintain ties with their original country or their parents' old country. After all, in Denmark we pay tribute to the Danish minority in Sydslesvig. We often focus on the descendants of Danish emigrants to the USA or Argentina, which preserves Danish traditions and ties with Denmark. I think there are many people in Denmark who think it is a little funny that there are some Danish colonies around the world with people who originally have roots in Denmark, who have become part of the society to which they have moved, but who still retain a connection with the Danish. In exactly the same way, people who originally come from Russia, Iraq or Chile, or where it can now be from, and who have now moved to Denmark, can have it, namely that they feel Danish, but also feel like Russians, Iraqis or Chileans, or whatever it may be. In addition, there is also a little practical aspect to this, namely that in the years leading up to the legal amendment in 2014, we saw how incredibly difficult it was for a lot of people to be solved from their old citizenship, for then the authorities of the country from which they originally came would have to do a lot of paperwork that it was not always possible to get these authorities to do. This meant that we actually ended up giving some people the right to have a dual citizenship because they simply could not be freed from their old citizenship. But it was only some who, like, got the opportunity. So now we have made legislation that applies to everyone. You can have a double citizenship. I think that's nice, and I know there's a lot of people who think that too. When we passed the bill, it was kind of a party day. There were just so many people who had been thinking for years: I live in Denmark and I want to be a Danish citizen, but I would rather not let go of the citizenship I have in the country from which I come. It was a party day and we wholeheartedly support that legislation and, of course, vote against the Danish People's Party's proposal. I would just like to mention that the Danish People's Party has clearly identified itself in the media as a supporter of a proposal from the South Schleswig Committee that Danish-minded Southern Schleswigers can obtain Danish citizenship on the basis of their stay in South Schleswig if they meet different criteria, such as: covers the Danish origin of their parents. I think it might be interesting to hear the Danish People's Party's answer to the very simple question that can then be asked, namely whether it means that these people from the Danish minority in Germany must give up their German citizenship in order to be allowed to have Danish citizenship. I think this is again an example of the Danish People's Party working in two different directions. On the one hand, people from the Danish minority must have easier access to the Danish citizenship. On the other hand, they already have considerably easier access to Danish citizenship than other people. On the other hand, the Danish People's Party now says that they should not have double citizenship at all. But it may well be that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party will respond to that when the rapporteur comes to the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111747	In any case, it now gives rise to a single question from Mr. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111752	I'll give you a detailed explanation when I get to the platform. As I remember the discussion, a great deal of the red parties seemed, and I also think it was including the Enhedslisten, that with the Danish minority and dual citizenship it was nonsense. Actually, that's what they thought. It was thought to be nonsense that they should be included in it. Then I think it's kind of interesting about the tactical game going on in the Folketing, where you don't, like, measure up to your own position, but try to attack other people's positions while your own is standing and flapping a little in the wind, because then you get free from expressing what you mean.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519111835	First of all, I think I am expressing incredibly clearly what I think, namely that I think it is fantastic that we have finally modernised the law so that we can have dual citizenship. I do not think anyone heard my speech, who may be in doubt about what I think, namely that it is very good that you can have dual citizenship. With regard to the proposal under discussion in the South Schleswig Committee to extend the Danish minority's access to Danish citizenship more easily, I would say that we support the current rules. But it is true that the proposal now before the committee is very critical of us, among other things. Because we are extending the area in which we have to live to meet the residence requirement to the other side of the democratically established 1920 limit. It is clear that we are very critical of this. Another element we are very critical of is that one of the criteria one has to meet to get this easier access is that one has to go back four generations and identify any Danish citizens in the family tree. So we're not understanding this about how you have to go back into the family tree and see if you can find any Danish blood. So yes, we are critical of the proposal in the South Schleswig Committee at this time, just as I know that there are many from the Danish minority who, for the same reasons, are critical, in other words because of this issue of residence on the other side of the 1920 limit and the question of going back four generations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112006	Then we thank the rapporteur and let the border stand. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112017	Thank you. This proposal seeks to abolish the possibility of dual citizenship for Danes. In fact, I can easily understand the argument that citizenship is an expression of loyalty and a bond to a nation, but I also see no problem in being loyal to several nations. There are a number of countries in the world with which Denmark is very closely connected in terms of value. When, for example, you're gonna have to do something about it. as a Dane finds an American spouse and moves to the United States, but of course still feels close to Denmark, so I find it difficult to see that there should be a conflict between the loyalty relationship with the United States and the loyalty relationship with Denmark. But I admit that there are some problems in relation to people who come from countries which are very different in terms of value from Denmark. A good example, of course, is what Mr. Christian Langballe himself refers to the recent Turkish vote. This is a good example of the fact that there are challenges when you are very different in value terms. However, for me and for the Liberal Alliance, it is most important that there are a number of Danes who feel a very great country's love for Denmark and whose circumstances of life have taken them elsewhere in the world. The fact that people can feel so attached to Denmark themselves after living many years in another country is really also significant for the vitality of Danishness, and we do not want to deny these Danes, these people, their official association with Denmark. So it is not really because we do not recognise the problems that the Danish People's Party points out, but it is because it is a question of what we weigh most heavily, and in the Liberal Alliance that is the last thing I mentioned. That is why we are voting against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112215	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112219	I am glad, then, that at least it is recognised that there are in fact some fundamental elements of principle that need to be considered. I just have to say that I feel quite basically that should I ever think of leaving, for example, for example. U.S.A. and settle down there and have an American wife, etc. etc., so I had to choose. I mean, is that the lot I'm gonna throw in the weight bowl? Is it in the United States? Well, then it has to do it, and I think that's quite all right. However, I believe that what we want to have both must mean that we then declare unconditional loyalty to the American state, even in relation to Denmark. I think that is simply a choice, and that is a choice I understand. I cannot understand why it is so difficult for people to make that choice, because I actually believe that loyalty means much, much more than it has also been shown in this debate that it means much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112322	But it is not, in fact, because I do not understand the approach very well, and I also have respect for the view that that choice should then be made. I just think that we in the Liberal Alliance do not believe that there is a problem of loyalty when, for example, we do. speaks the United States and Denmark. We think, in fact, that you can be loyal to two nations whose community of values is so similar; but I respect the view that you have to make a choice and I just do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112353	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112401	Thank you. In the alternative, we welcome the changes that came into force in the summer of 2015, for then it was made possible for people living in a global world such as ours to have dual citizenship and thus to retain their citizenship and, in this context, probably also part of their identity. The dual nationality rule applies, of course, to, for example. young Danes who have been born and raised abroad with Danish parents and who feel specially attached to Denmark and feel that they have a Danish identity. In the proposal, the proposers describe how citizenship expresses undivided loyalty and commitment to Denmark. Does this mean that these young people cannot feel a great deal of loyalty to Denmark because they are citizens of another country? No, we definitely think they can. That is why we also believe that the law on Danish citizenship is positive, also in relation to e.g. the young people in Denmark who can thus maintain their ties with their parents' home country. As you can well hear, we do not agree at all with the argument and the premise of this proposal and we cannot, of course, vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112528	We would just like to thank the rapporteur. We're gonna move on, and then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left, who is now being given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112547	Thank you. One of my best friends is Nicholas. He has Greek and Danish citizenship, so he has dual citizenship. He grew up in Denmark, but he has a Greek father. We went to the same school in Humlebæk up in North Zealand. Now he is studying political science and working here in the spring of the European Parliament. Why should he choose something else, and in particular something else from? Why should he choose his mother's identity or his father's identity, nationality? It was a huge victory for the Radical Left when, in the last period, dual citizenship was introduced, for internationalisation, for globalisation and for the many people for whom it was wanted. Recently there was citizenship day in here. It was a fantastic day, a party day. There were plenty of people several hours in a row, and everyone was just so happy. It's rare that there are so many who would like to visit us several hours in a row. I talked to a lot of people who came from far away who were happy with their new Danish passports. They were on our invitation and happy that we would celebrate them. Several of the people I met and talked to celebrated their dual citizenship. I spoke among other things. With British and Americans who, after 30 and 40 years, had finally acquired citizenship, because the possibility of dual citizenship now existed. 30 and 40 years in Denmark, in jobs, self-employed, married, completely Danish-speaking. It was the greatest pleasure to greet these people who were radiant with joy at being Danes; they were just as happy to be Danes as I am every day; just as happy as I was when I got up this morning; just as happy as I was when I ate pork in the Snapsting yesterday; and just as happy as I am when I am having an ice-cold beer tonight. They were happy with life, happy to be Danes and, above all, proud. Too proud were the many guests we were visited on citizenship day. I'd like to see more happy people. Several who are delighted to be Danes; several who contribute to Danish society with the resources they now have. That is why we must continue to give people the possibility of dual citizenship. It would be a completely wrong way to go if we were to follow the resolution. For, of course, no one is simply giving up his country of origin and renouncing his second passport. Where you are born, you will always have a special attachment, close roots, perhaps your family. We live in a globalised society. We are more mobile to create new belongings. Many people travel, study abroad, work abroad, fall in love with each other and settle somewhere. You tie yourself to more places than your homeland and your new environment. The fact that you only have your loyalty in one place is a hopeless, outdated way of thinking, and our legislation must, of course, reflect that. So it's been many years since you lived your whole life in the same village. That is why we cannot in any way support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519112955	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113005	Thank you. We are discussing a proposal from the Danish People's Party to waive the right to dual citizenship. The SF cannot support the proposal and one of the reasons is seen from the proposer's own comments on the proposal, namely that some countries simply will not resolve their citizens from their original citizenship. And even if we found a solution to that problem, the proposal has several kinds of times. It is, for example, the Danish woman who traveled to the United States in her young days and fell in love with an American man, had two children before the entire new family decided to settle in Denmark. The two children were originally American citizens and felt as attached to their father's family and homeland as they feel attached to their mother's family and homeland. In addition to the fact that it was best for the two children who were now to grow up in Denmark to have Danish citizenship, the two are now young people among the Danes who took advantage of the possibility of double citizenship, so they are now both Danish and American citizens. The two young people do not feel more loyal to Denmark than they do to the United States. The two young people have strong feelings for both Denmark and the United States, and they can actually accommodate it. In fact, I find that the new generation of young people is far more able to ignore rigid national borders and view themselves as citizens of a globalised world. In the example mentioned, the two young Danes today also have better opportunities when they are in the situation that they have an idea both in the USA and Denmark and feel as both Danes and Americans, with a dual citizenship that ensures that they are not emotionally moved in the middle. We did not intend to change that again, so the SF does not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113155	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113203	The Danish People's Party will change the provisions on dual citizenship so that in the future you cannot have a citizenship other than the Danish one, or so that in the future you can at least have one citizenship. We are not in favour of this, so we are against the resolution. We are in favour of dual citizenship, especially and above all for the sake of the many Danes living abroad. There are quite a few Danes abroad who for many years have sought the opportunity to retain their Danish citizenship and in this way do not lose association with Danish society when they work and live in another country. We think that is quite fine, and it is primarily for the sake of them, so that they can retain their Danish identity and affiliation to Denmark, even if they move to another country and become citizens there. In a globalised world, that must be possible. As a rule, there are no problems of loyalty when you have dual citizenship, but we have, and I would like to say this, just had an example with some Turkish citizens who were also Danish citizens and who voted against democracy when there was a vote in Turkey. I thought that was depressing, I thought it was worrying, but I see it as something that is more about lack of integration, lack of belonging and association with this society than about dual citizenship. So the problem here is quite different from the fact that you have been given the opportunity to have dual citizenship. So all in all, we cannot support B 121 from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113404	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113409	It was a shame that most of all because I also believe that the attitude was different in 2014. I believe that at that time it was Mrs Charlotte Dyremose who was the rapporteur on the proposal and that she strongly advocated that it was a conservative matter that there was only one citizenship. I actually thought it was very good at that time. I do not know whether I am so pleased with the rapporteur's speech, but that is because of the position issues. I would like the rapporteur to comment on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113442	We've become smarter since 2014, and the party has changed its mind about this issue. We are in favour of dual citizenship today, especially in the interests of the Danes living abroad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113457	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113506	Well, it's rare to say that, but it was just before that, sir. Christian Langballe took the work away from me, I was about to say. It is not often that we will ask the same question. I was just so pleasantly surprised that the Conservatives are now in favour of dual citizenship, because it is quite true what Mr. Christian Langballe says that the Conservatives voted against in 2014. And I also believe that in the year 2014 we lived in a world where people traveled out into the world and worked. So I would actually just like to say that this was a wonderful news we received on this Friday: that the Conservatives now support the possibility of dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113543	Thank you. And we do so wholeheartedly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113547	The dialogue is over and we shall now turn to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519113558	Well, at least thank you for the debate. I can understand, of course, that there is not much support, but for me it has been important to have this principle kick in relation to what citizenship is to me. I think that's right, and I could never dream of denying that we are living in a globalised time. I always think that these are the positive aspects that are highlighted when we talk about globalisation, while we forget the negative aspects. In fact, I believe that citizenship and the nation state are a protection against the negative aspects of globalisation, in which we have only seen the first, and I think that this should be taken into account in the whole of the fact that introducing dual citizenship also means getting into the conflict, that politicians from foreign countries can come and maybe campaign here in Denmark, politicians who even have a standing place that is far away from Danish democracy. I mean, it is also, so to speak, an expression of what is called globalisation. I am, in fact, in favour of and fully acknowledge the fact of globalisation, but I also believe that these jubilee globalists owe us once in a while to address the reverse of globalisation. It is clear to us that it has been about the citizenship of each nationality expressing loyalty, a fundamental unconditional loyalty to a country. Is it possible to have feelings in relation to another country? Yeah, you can do that. You can have that for generations, by the way. I had a visit from an American who was out seeing Chele Church. I showed him around, and then he said that his grandfather or great-grandfather had emigrated to the United States, and that he still had this basic feeling in relation to Denmark. That is all well and good, I understand perfectly well, but that does not mean that he should be a Danish citizen. There, I believe, loyalty, unconditional loyalty plays a crucial role. I have also said so in the debate: I just think that if you go out, for example to the United States, and find a wife or a man or whatever, and start a family there, there is a time when you have to decide where you really want to throw your lot into the balance, what kind of a nation you want to work for. And there I think it is fine that you have to make a choice, while at the same time you can still have deep feelings for Denmark. Of course you can. But it is a matter of loyalty to us. Then it has been said here that the disqualification of citizenship will be easier with dual citizenship. I do not deny, of course, the simple fact that in order to be able to deny anyone citizenship, as the laws are today, and with the conventions that we have signed up to, they must have two citizenships. Otherwise, you can't get your citizenship out of the way, because you're going under the stateless convention. So I'm totally on the stand. I just ask, how much is this going to mean in practice? I would like to deny people citizenship, but on the other hand I also insist that in this respect to individual citizenship there is something quite different that is at stake for me and for us in the Danish People's Party, namely this bond, this undivided loyalty to Denmark. That is what matters, and I think that is important to say, especially in a globalised age. Finally, I should like to address one point which the President, before sitting in the chair, addressed and which Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten has also addressed: what about the German minority? And then I would say that it is actually a mistake that I have not included it in the proposal, because I intended to address it. I believe that the Danish minority plays a very special role in relation to Denmark and its association with Denmark. Just the fact that the Danish minority of course lives in Germany, but in an area bordering Denmark, and that it is an old story and an old bond with Denmark, I think is an exception and a special case. And that is why we would also put the Danish minority differently if we succeeded in abolishing double citizenship. We would therefore make an exception to the Danish minority. With those comments, I thank you for the debate. I actually have nothing more to say. Unfortunately, it will not be adopted, but we can try again some other time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114115	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114121	Thank you for your answer, namely that the Danish People's Party is against dual citizenship, except for the Danish minority and probably also the German minority, I assume. Are there others that these rules don't apply to Sweden, Norway? Is there anyone else, or is it the Danish minority and the German minority, who are allowed to be Danish citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114146	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114151	The Danish minority, yes. That is the exception. Done, done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114155	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114159	Thank you. In my rapporteur's speech, as the rapporteur probably heard, I referred to my friend Nicolas, who has dual citizenship, Greek and Danish, as a result of his having a Danish mother and a Greek father. Does the rapporteur not recognise that it is possible to feel both Danish and Greek in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114223	Yes, I do. In fact, I addressed that in my own rapporteur's speech, so I actually acknowledge that. I recognize that you can have feelings. If I went to the United States, for example... and settled there, I would still have feelings for Denmark. Of course, I accept that, but I also believe, and that is where my point comes from, that when it comes to citizenship, you have to make a choice because it is a question of loyalty, unconditional loyalty, in relation to the country where you are a national, that is to say you throw your lot into that bowl and share your destiny with the country where you live. I think that is just a basic premise for me, but I fully recognise that you can feel for more than one country, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114311	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114313	After all, it is gratifying that we are so far, that the Danish People's Party at least recognises that you can have feelings for several countries so far, so well. Then I would like to ask further: what does the rapporteur think of the situation in which your mother is a Danish citizen and your father is a Greek citizen, where you are then put up and have to choose between your father's identity or your mother's identity? Isn't that a completely unreasonable way to make a choice? Should we not just allow citizens to have dual citizenship so that they do not have an unreasonable choice, so that they do not have to choose the identity of their mother or father, since the rapporteur has just acknowledged to have some sympathy for having feelings for several countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114408	I think that what the rapporteur says simply does not stand up to, because it is not a question of choosing between the identity of his mother and father. They have their own identity. The child has its own identity, and one does not make a choice by saying that there is one particular country with which one identifies more than the other. Then you don't choose between your mother and your father, then you choose in relation to the country. I simply think that these are two different things... Excuse me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114438	A brief remark from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114443	I can now greet some of those I know where Mom and Dad each have their own citizenship and say that it is actually a very concrete and relevant and not found a problem position as parents in that situation. But that's not really what I wanted to ask. It was more of a concrete question. I think there are several members of parliament in here who have been approached by some of the British citizens in Denmark who are currently applying for Danish citizenship because they are concerned about how they stand on Brexit. What will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party say to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114515	If I am to deal with the whole issue of Brexit in relation to dual citizenship, we are going a little far. I'm sorry, it's not like I'm messing with you or something. Actually, I didn't quite understand the question. I will answer that if the rapporteur just helps me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114534	It doesn't give you extra time, but here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114537	Okay. Of course, we should not open a major European political debate. It would also fall a little outside the scope of the motion for a resolution. But there is the possibility that the British can now apply for Danish citizenship. They live, live and have their lives here, and they now have the opportunity to have double citizenship. After all, the Danish People's Party wants to deprive them of that. That is also why there have been some worried e-mails, because those who follow have been able to see that this proposal would be put forward. What is the rapporteur's message to them? If it was implemented, they'd have to drop that application. What will the rapporteur say to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114616	I have to say that I have a very pragmatic relationship with this. When we make new laws, there are transitional provisions. So I would say to them that, of course, they have applied under certain conditions, and that means that there are some other conditions. The same thing happened when we jointly made that citizenship agreement. I think that is the right way to do it. No matter what the situation is, there must always be transitional provisions, because people have sought, of course, under certain conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114642	Thank you, sir. Christian Langballe. There is no one else who wishes to speak, and that is why the debate is over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114707	The debate is open and the Minister for Finance is the first to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519114726	When I've been home in Jutland and talked to my old friends, who are floor coverings, carpenters, blacksmiths, electricians and other things, I've heard the concept that they've had internally between them and which they called Jutland dollars. I wasn't quite aware of what the Jutland dollar was, and for a while I was afraid it might have something to do with whether it was given up to the IRS or not given up to the IRS. But now I understand that my friends are just at the forefront. They are even so far ahead that they have overtaken the alternative's proposal here to make local currencies, and thought that there were some currencies that should be kept in a specially closed cycle rather like what the alternative here proposes. I still believe that the Jutland dollars were very similar to the Danish crowns that we other paid with, and perhaps in reality more was a matter of a humorous approach to having some money that might not have been kept away from the tax authorities, but at least from the boyfriend or spouse. The proposal here is to make such local currencies. It is believed that promoting local currencies promotes a way in which money stays in the community. The question is whether it is in our interest to do so. Because if you keep money in a local community or in a country, it would mean that the mighty large exports Denmark has would not have been able to take place, that is, if it were the case that the money was to be spent in Denmark, or that the money in other countries would have to be spent in those countries. The international free trade that we have had over the past 70 years has, of course, led to countries acting in an integrated way, to companies creating value chains, to people getting in touch with each other in a different way, and to the creation of an increasingly prosperous world where fewer and fewer people live in poverty, where more and more children are growing up and can go to school, where more and more people have access to clean drinking water and to healthcare. This is among other things. in view of the fact that we have become better at dealing with each other and creating division of labour across countries. That is why free trade is a great asset to society, and that is why we should not put up trade barriers either between countries or between cities for that matter. The motion for a resolution states that one of the aims should be to obtain such local exchangeable, exchangeable currencies in order to avoid taking the money out of the city. If that principle were fully applied, it would be to say no to free trade. That would be to say that it would only have to be what was locally produced. I am fully aware that the fact that goods are transported over long distances has some negative effects on our climate and our environment. I believe that this should be dealt with in the price of transport, as we have done in Denmark by imposing taxes on diesel or petrol, as has been done by having a price of CO2 I think that the proposal here will form a customs wall that will allow local businesses to have a market for themselves, but thus also to have less competition. And competition helps to keep a company's spirit of initiative and innovation strong, which means that if you had to introduce such a local currency and keep the money in the local community, the opposite would happen: consumers would have goods that were either more expensive or worse and where innovation would not push down prices or quality, as we have seen that innovation has done in the future. Therefore, it will be the case that this will affect individual consumers in the areas where such a local currency would be introduced. I have seen in the comments on the proposal that there is a reference to a number of international experiences. I have taken the trouble to try to find out, that is, how it really is with brixton pounds, and how it is with sonantes and the others. The thing is, they're not very common. It is a very, very small transferability that is, because of course it costs something to change from one euro to one sonantes, from one pound sterling to a briston pound. And in this exchange, transactions are expensive, and it makes it more expensive to be a citizen and more expensive to be a consumer. So I would like to say that, of course, we can find concrete examples of some people taking this into account, but it is not very widespread. It is not very well received where it has been. Of course, you should never be negative and I hope I don't sound so over that some people come up with a new idea either. In fact, I think it is refreshing that the alternative takes up ideas that may not be fully ready for cooking and allows us to have a discussion of them here in the Folketing. But there is a difference between ideas that are not ready for pots and ideas that draw in the opposite direction to what we want. And when the government wants a world of free trade, a world of innovation, a world in which competition helps to drive prices down for consumers and quality up, yes, this proposal will move in the opposite direction and therefore the government cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115309	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115313	Thank you, Minister. I think that the Minister really does come up with the big blade in relation to saying first that it will limit free trade and that this simply overturns our economy, after which the Minister in the second sequence of his speech says: and by the way, it has had no effect whatsoever, and it is absolutely insignificant. I think that what we are trying to do with this motion for a resolution is really to give the local people who want to do this an opportunity and, according to our legislation today, it is not possible. This is not true when the Minister of Finance says that if the Minister of Finance has examined the local experiments, it has not increased the economic turnover in the local areas. That's exactly what it has. That is precisely what this motion for a resolution is all about: increasing local sales of local goods. This does not mean that goods should be transported so far and it promotes sustainability, but it also promotes what I know is high on the government's agenda, that local communities in rural areas also have an opportunity to increase economic activity and increase productivity with local goods. That is why I am very surprised that the Minister is so flatly rejecting the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115419	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115421	Yeah, well, I do, among other things. in the light of experience from Germany, where the assessment is that local currencies do not contribute to supporting the local economy, but merely result in increased prices for consumers. And I do not want increased prices for consumers. I want lower prices for consumers. Then there is the question of whether it is for the benefit of the local areas. There are very many of the companies Denmark has located in the local areas, far away from the large cities, which are suppliers or direct exporters of goods, and where such a spread of local currencies would be detrimental to Denmark. Denmark has become a rich country that we export more than we import. We have benefited from increased free trade. So if you get a situation where free trade is shut down because of local currencies that dictate that you only have to act locally, it will be to the detriment of Denmark. For many years now, we have had surpluses in our balance of payments and have thus become richer by trade with the outside world, and the world around us has got better goods and cheaper goods by being able to trade with Denmark. I'm not gonna hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115521	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115524	It is called a complementary currency because it is exactly what it is: it is complementary to the crown. I think it is interesting when, in their own government base, the government says that they want to contribute to initiatives that strengthen citizens' opportunities for development and their ability to act. It has been written differently and that we should not limit it. That's what we're doing here. When the Minister mentions these scare examples, I think it is interesting to look at precisely Brixton, where solar cells are created locally, which are promoted, by means of local production. They're being set up on the city's rooftops etc. After all, it is the citizens themselves who decide whether they want to take part in this experiment, whether they want to buy the local currencies or exchange the local currencies to be able to translate locally. So I have to say that I find it interesting that the Minister will not help to promote local opportunities for development, especially in view of the rural and urban problems, especially when it is also seen that it promotes sustainability and local economic growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115624	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115625	The government has taken a large number of initiatives to improve our rural areas than in the past. Unemployment is low, employment has increased and housing prices are beginning to rise in rural areas. Why? Because we have taken a number of initiatives that make things better in rural areas. If you take the example of the solar cells, there is nothing to prevent that it could be carried out completely in the same way with pound sterling instead of brixton pounds. There's nothing to stop it. If the same citizens decided to take their pound sterling and do exactly the same project, it would even be cheaper, for then there would be no exchange costs from pound sterling to brixton pounds. Therefore, the model proposed by the Alternative will not promote anything at all, but on the contrary will make it more expensive. If you want to make a local initiative, you can do so with the currencies we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115720	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the rapporteurs, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519115731	Thank you, President. When it comes to dealing with a motion for a resolution such as this, which has elements of great seriousness and importance in itself, and in some ways maybe also an aim that some people can smile a little at, it is always difficult when you come up here to decide whether it should be a cheerful speech or whether you should like to keep it strictly factual. And I have decided that it is probably best to have a positive approach to it. That's why I've also placed both Dukatos and Polishets in place for free use. That's a lot of liquorice money, but it might raise blood sugar a little, so we all stay in a good mood. For the sake of good order, I must say that we do not support the alternative resolution, and the formality of this is that we want to be sure that we have a stable currency and a fixed exchange rate policy to ensure that Denmark's economy does not experience major fluctuations due to price changes and all these things. But that is why, of course, there are all sorts of fun and exciting aspects if you start to think out the alternative's proposals into its ultimate consequence. After all, the Minister mentioned Jutland's dollars, and that is a well-known expression which I shall not be able to explain any further. But one can also imagine that in Vejle one thinks that one will make some local road drachmas and then write make Vejle great again on that note that one puts a local artist to make. It could of course be very cheerful, I have no doubt. I do not think that the effect of this will be so much greater than if Vejle, for example. Made a common gift card, that is, if the trading booth in Vejle made one of these. I know you do that in a number of cities, and I really don't know if you have it in Vejle; it was just to take it as a concrete example, so that you make it easy to trade across the city's shops for those who want it. This can easily be done without making any changes to the law in relation to what exists today. I also know that there is what is called art money, which is also such a kind of unit that you can exchange cross-country and cross-country, and that is also very artistic. But I do not think we will get that far if we want to turn it into commercial goods. At the more serious end there are of course also bitcoins, which are widely used by among others. criminals, and we saw that last week when IT criminals used it globally to receive payment to unlock the computers they had unlocked. And in this way we were also reminded that, despite the fact that there may be some cheerful aspects to introducing a South Jutland D-mark or whatever it might be of alternative currency units, there is also a serious aspect. Well, there is after all the element that when something is alternative, one can unfortunately start to cheat a little with it. I am very, very confident about the National Bank's great focus on the amount of money that is actually in circulation, i.e. the currency in circulation that is there. There's a bill in circulation of 64.5 billion. kr. and coins for 6 billion. kr., and the Faroese notes for 400 million. kr. But despite the fact that it is a lot, there is virtually no counterfeiting in Denmark, and if I am not mistaken, we were down to about 800 counterfeits in circulation last year, and I am quite confident about that. I also think the outside world is comfortable with this, so that even if the Danish crown is a small currency, the security that might exist about it is quite well controlled. I don't think you can make the same security if you sit in Skagen and make a note yourself, I have to say. There are also plenty of places abroad where there is of course experience, which the alternative also mentions. I think we may be missing a few other examples, such as: What has been seen in Kenya, where alternative currency units have been introduced, because you simply do not have money for the money system, and you could also take Cuba, where you have two parallel monetary systems; one for local citizens, a local pesos, and then the one called convertible pesos that tourists use, which is due to quite different elements, you might say. And I guess you can't call it consumer protection when it's in Cuba. So there are many aspects to this, and my bottom line is that it has given this cheerful opportunity to taste some of the Dukatos lying down in my place. But we say 'no' to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120239	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120245	I would say that if it is the rapporteur's ability to be cheerful, we probably do not share the same kind of humour. I think it is fantastic that I should almost say that the Minister was more visionary than the Social Democratic Party. Social democracy is afraid of the trade balance, is afraid of cybercrime, compares this system with Cuba, where you drive double compared to the dollar and Cuban money, and Kenya. I believe that what we need to do here in the Folketing is to ensure that local initiatives and entrepreneurial people and business-driven local associations can do what they want to do. What we know in concrete terms is that we know they want to do this on Djursland. We know that what they want is for them to be able to make local djurs, as they call it, because they want to ensure that there is greater cohesion in the community. They want to make sure they buy the local goods. So I have a very, very difficult time seeing this little ridicule that the Social Democrats are now putting down on it. In fact, it is the ridicule of a very large local group which would like to try to use these means of payment, which are complementary to the crown, locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120403	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120405	Thank you. First of all, I have to correct. When I mention Cuba, it is because Cuba has two official mints and one is the local pesos that local Cubans can use. The second is the one called pesos convertibles, which can be used as a tourist, but these are both official currency units, and this is because they do not want Cubans to be able to spend the money they earn outside Cuba. In any case, this is such a very concrete way of building up a trade barrier, if I may say so. I know that this is not what the alternative proposal is about. I think that, after all, the alternative rapporteur is not quite as much in the Friday mood as I am, because I actually wanted to take this in a rather cheerful way, but it certainly does not change the basic fact that in Djursland and in many other places many things can be done. One could, for example: I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120517	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120519	Thank you. It's probably because I'm a little incomprehensible about why we have to put barriers to this in the Folketing. I find it difficult to understand why it is that social democracy will not really help promote local initiatives. We know that this remedys the whole problem of rural depopulation, where there is weak economic growth, and what we can see from the initiatives taken around Europe, which the European Union has also supported financially, is that economic growth is increasing locally, that there is greater consumption of local goods and that it simply promotes the cohesion of citizens. So I still wonder why the Social Democrats cannot support this proposal. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120612	As I said, we are among others. very concerned that the Danish crown is quite a small currency in advance, but as the Danes then in turn are also very happy and proud of. After all, we are firmly bound to the euro, so in this way it is so a complementary currency. And then I have to say that we are very concerned that we are starting to open up these systems with the weaknesses that are, unfortunately, there is also a great risk of it being cheated. In other words, we think that there are plenty of possibilities and gaps in advance for cheating in different ways. And I hope that one day no one will think that Black Army or Bandidos can make their own currency for that matter or their own trade economy. We do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120702	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519120708	Thank you, President. Then there was such a suggestion here about a local currency. I have to say that when I started reading it, I didn't quite know what to think. Why actually make this proposal? What is the real reason for this? You get a little bit smarter when you're not the first in the series of speeches. Now the Minister has been on and a few questions have been put to him, and the Social Democracy has been on and questions have been asked to them. That's for you to lock yourself up and have a local economy. But then I would say: what is the challenge today? There's plenty of places for that. This example of solar cells is also mentioned. Well, you can do that on public stock. It is absolutely right, as the previous rapporteur said, that there are plenty of places where gift cards are issued to shops that want to have a community on it. So the possibilities of having something and building something together are certainly found in the municipalities and locals if you want to do so. I would also like to say that the proposal is, in fact, concluded by writing and I think that is quite okay with the alternative doing that: "In addition, there is local currency, which with all currency, a risk of counterfeiting. Yes, of course, if there are many different coins. People won't recognize them. The minister said there were North Jutland dollars, and there could be Lolland pesetas, and there could be all kinds of different coins. I would say that today we can also buy alternative currency. Just last Friday I was in Føtex to buy mix self-sweets, and there was gold dukatos, and there was even price on them. They cost about 50 cents a piece, so they were also priced, and then you can pay with them if you want. It is not to belittle the proposal as such, but if I am to be quite honest, I think that if you want to have a discussion about local communities about something, it is actually quite fair, but to mix local currency into it, we think we are quite wrong. Because there are possibilities for you to take this up locally. I have mentioned people's shares, and there is this with gift cards and other ways where you can of course have some communities to build something up locally. So we do not think the proposal is very interesting, and certainly not from a parliamentary perspective. It might be interesting to see it in a local perspective where you could see how you could get some communities there. There we believe that the tools for doing so are certainly available locally. So, as I have said, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal because we believe that it will have no, and certainly no, positive effect. If at last someone wanted to go out and print this new kind of money, it would be a terribly messy market. I also think that the Minister has made a very good point of dealing with it in a factual way as to what kind of thinking we are opening up to and, of course, we do not want to let any economies in that way either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121010	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121013	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, I had hoped that the Danish People's Party could support it because of the fact that the Danish People's Party also, I know, cares a great deal about Udkantsdanmark ~ town and the country-problem. And it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that today you can make gift cards, people's shares, you can do many things, so this is really just an extra model that you can use to promote the local community. To what the rapporteur then says about it being a local initiative, I would say that I fully agree with that, but the problem is that it cannot be done today because it is illegal. That means that local citizens who want to use this are not allowed to do so today, and that is why we are bringing it up in the Chamber. We are not bringing it up in the Chamber to impose anything on anyone, but we are just saying that it needs to be opened up in the legislation so that there is an opportunity to do so, and it is entirely up to the local citizens how and whether they will make use of this option or the other options mentioned by the rapporteur. So I would really like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not recognise that there are some positive results from the other countries that have done so, among other things. England, where it can be seen that it promotes local cohesion, local growth, local increased use of local raw materials, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121132	I would say that for Denmark and the society we are part of, and our welfare model builds, among other things. The fact that we are a tax-financed society would be a subversive element in starting to have a different type of coin. As is also written in the proposal, it will probably be very easy to copy when there is no value behind it and when you will be able to trade these things, and it will also be subversive in relation to undeclared work and non-payment of taxes, duties etc. etc. That is why we do not think this proposal is necessary, even in relation to the initiatives that may be local, and that is why I am mentioning those elements, among others. people's shares and other things. Of course you can do things locally, but we don't want you to have another currency in circulation out there. Firstly, you could ask what it is worth, and secondly, you could ask what it is then used for. Then we do not want to have a currency that cannot be used everywhere. In Denmark you can pay with royal Danish coin, and we are really proud of that, and you must be able to continue to do so, and that is the means of payment. Then, of course, there are other currencies that are recognised, but the fact that we can stand at home and print our own money is not going to go well. Of course, it would be much easier to be a parliamentary politician, because if things go badly in the municipalities, they can just print some more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121252	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121254	Then I think that the rapporteur has not read the proposal very well anyway, because it is not a question of not paying tax and VAT, because this is the case with these currencies, including those in other parts of Europe where it works. With the experience gained, it is not in any way a fraud, so it is fully in line with the tax-financed system, and I think that is important to keep in mind. So using that argument seems to me a little too bad. I really want to go back to the Danish People's Party because they are always concerned about the country and the urban problem, and I think that is very good, but I think it is a little too bad that the rapporteur does not recognise that this can help to support local development.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121337	This is gonna be very restrictive for the locals. If we now imagine that we really agreed to this and this became very widespread, we would be faced with a situation in which there would be some citizens who have a means of payment which can only be used in a very limited area. This will not mean that you will have a strength in a local area; it will mean that the local area will have a weakness, that you have a means of payment that no one else wants, because you can only use it within a very limited area, for example a municipality. The means of payment would then have a very limited scope. We recognise the idea that we should have opportunities locally to create value, but we can easily do that with the rules that exist today, and we should not start printing money locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121421	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it's mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen, rapporteur of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121430	Thank you. Our rapporteur on the proposal, sir. Unfortunately, Jacob Jensen cannot be here today, and that is why I have promised to explain the position of the Left in relation to this proposal. And, of course, it is extremely easy, very fast to say that this is an alternative proposal, and at least a type of proposal that we do not see every day. However, it is of course important to stick to the fact that we on the Left share the desire of the Alternative that we should do everything we can to ensure a better balance between the country and the city. We just don't think this is the way forward. Now the alternative rapporteur, Mrs Josephine Fock, has been out in various media and has said that the background to this proposal, among other things. is the desire to open up that you can make this currency on Djursland. Now I'm actually in a situation where I almost live on Djursland, because I live in a village called Assentoft, which is just close to the border with Djursland. That is why I know a little about what is going on in the villages and what you are doing to keep on ensuring that you have a well-functioning village, and I can certainly emphasise that what makes it possible in a village such as Assentoft, in a village such as Auning and in a large number of other villages around the area is that you stand together; it is that you stand together about activities, to make sure that the cities evolve, and simply to say that here you will make an active effort. And I hear no one saying that if some kind of artificial layer is provided in the form of some kind of currency next to the Danish krone, it will make it even more supportive. I don't hear anyone say that. It is not the same as not recognising that there is a small group of people who have put themselves together in the eastern part of Djursland and said: this will save everything. But I really don't think it will. For what is it that makes it possible for us to ensure that these villages also have a future? Is it trying to keep people stubbornly firm that they should only act there and that only the options they have if they are not to get a customs duty thrown in their head if they drive 2-3 km across the municipal border? So, to spell it out completely, the village I live in is going to create a new customs wall because it is 5 km away from Auning, located on Djursland, in Norddjurs Kommune, so that Auningsfolkerne, if they want to act in Assentoft, will have an economic negative effect of it, i.e. as a result of this specific proposal. At the same time, we live at a time when banknotes are moving away. Well, it's the case that most people run around with their dance cards, and they don't even print the code anymore. So the fact that we're going to start thinking about returning to this banknote system, I have to admit, I don't understand. No, what has an effect is among other things. Some of the things that we on the Left are very pleased about the government's initiative, namely all the good things that are done, with, among other things, some of them. the law on planning, to ensure that there is an opportunity for there to also be jobs out on the ground. And in general, we provide the framework for local communities to develop in good, free conditions. Because that's what I hear when I'm around both where I live and in cities farther east is that they actually want to have the opportunity to do some development projects within the different frameworks of Danish legislation themselves. That's what they want. That is why I can only say that we in the Left cannot express our support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121825	Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121828	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now the rapporteur mentioned that he lives close to Djursland, and I know that the rapporteur does. That is absolutely right. However, I think it is a pity that because the rapporteur himself has not come up with this idea, or because the people with whom the rapporteur is involved have not come up with this idea, it is quite clear that some other people may have come up with this idea and that some other people think it is a very good idea and that some other people, who are not a whole small group, should I say, in Djursland, that this might be very interesting. I would therefore just like to say once again that it is voluntary if you want this. It is voluntary that you want to be involved in changing into local currencies. I just want the Folketing to create the framework for this to happen. And I am rather sorry that the Left, which I really thought would be more positive about this proposal, is so receptive to it, because we know that it promotes local creativity, local innovation, and it will complement the government's country and urban policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121935	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519121936	That is because, in general, we cannot see that it will have any effect. As the Minister for Finance has made very clear, the foreign experience shows that it has had no effect. Firstly, it is extremely few people who actually use local currencies, and secondly, the German experience shows that it has no effect other than a negative effect on the people who then have this local currency. So I just have to admit, I don't see the need at all. I can easily see the need for us to do everything we can to ensure that there is a better balance between the country and the city, fully agreed. We must then do so in a wide range of different areas. This is just not one of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122019	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122021	Then I must say that the rapporteur has not delved well enough into the local initiatives that are there. Because if, for example, you're gonna have to... In the area of Bristol, to which we have referred, it can be seen that in the first year, £200,000 was again exchanged for £10 000. After all, it's some kind of money. What you can also see is that 85%. of the money exchanged remained in the community. That is exactly what we want to promote with this proposal: promoting local growth, promoting local sustainability, promoting local productivity. And again, I think it's a shame that the Folketing should be a barrier to local creativity. That's why we want to promote this proposal. And I very much hope that the Left will help to debate it constructively in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122105	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122106	We would always like to discuss various measures that can help to ensure a better balance between the country and the city. As I said, we have taken the lead ourselves, and I think it can be said that, out of the 12 years I have been in Parliament, we now have a government which has the most offensive policy in this area. So that's not what this is about. What this is about is how we get to that goal. There we simply disagree deeply that it is the way forward to introduce such a local currency. There are a host of negative effects which several of my colleagues have mentioned and which the Minister has also mentioned in the past. That's why we don't think this is the way forward. But let's spend our time efficiently and try to discuss how we can then ensure this better balance. We are always ready for that debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122149	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I do not see that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is here, so it will be Mr. Simpson's. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122218	I really think that this is a somewhat sympathetic motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. In fact, I think it is a super capitalist proposal, since it is basically about breaking the state's monopoly on issuing currency. In fact, there is a long tradition of this, especially in Canada and Scotland. There have been other currencies in the past which have not had a monopoly by the State. In the United States, too, the state did not have a monopoly on issuing currency for many years. In fact, if you go to Northern Ireland today, you can see the pounds of Northern Ireland on which it says Danske Bank. In Northern Ireland, Danske Bank issues right over here on the other side of the That is because the production of banknotes itself is not something that the Central Bank is dealing with in Northern Ireland. This is something the banks themselves must do. Nor do I quite buy any of the arguments for this to lead to a major disaster, because as I understand the Enhedslisten's proposal, I apologise, the alternative's proposal, then there is no question of there being a monopoly on these local currencies where you wish to issue them. So there will be competition between different currencies. However, I must hurry to say that we will be voting with the government on this motion for a resolution. That's the way it is. But I do have a lot of sympathy for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122428	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122430	Thank you to the rapporteur. Well, I am glad to hear that, and that is why I would like to know whether the rapporteur could help to make a report in committee where we write that it might be worth working on this. Because I fully agree with the points made by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122448	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122449	We'll have to talk about it afterwards, Mrs. Josephine Fock and I. After all, I have no wish that my party might in any way conflict with the government. But I just thought it was worth mentioning that I think it is quite a sympathetic proposal and that there are precedents for it too. There are also currencies which are very successful in these years. So bitcoin is an example of an entirely independent currency, which I am incredibly sorry I haven't realized before. It started at a cent, now it's up to $1,500. If only I'd set 1,000 kroner. In it. So something is actually happening and bitcoin is an example of the fact that there is actually a demand in the market in alternative currencies. And the idea that you let that demand decide, I really like it. But it is difficult when the state has a monopoly on the issuing of currencies. But I think we might see it from a little different angles. I think there is something very, very free market logic in that idea, and I am not quite sure that is the angle the alternative has had on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122609	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122611	Thank you to the rapporteur and I look forward to further discussions. It is probably true that we have different starting points, but that should not mean that we cannot find common solutions, because the reason why we have put forward this proposal is, of course, that we can see that it promotes local sustainability. It also promotes local growth and promotes local cohesion. So I look forward to talking further to the rapporteur and hope that we can find something in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122635-2	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122644	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122659	Thank you. It's a nice Friday, where we can talk a little about Jutland dollars and other exciting things. The Radical Left cannot support the fact that it is entirely free to print money. It has to be an authority such as: The National Bank, which is responsible for this kind of thing. It will have incalculable consequences for our entire country if we complete this total liberalisation of this area. If you start printing your own money on Djursland, as the example is here, then there will be speculation in that currency. It can create uncertainty about the crown, about tax payments, VAT, banking and much more. For how do you pay 25%? VAT of 10 Djurs or 61 Djurs or 101 Djurs, i.e. something that doesn't just go into 4. It should not be free for everyone to start printing money, and we do not necessarily see the direct link between green entrepreneurship and free money production, as the alternative here does. In the Radical Left, we can promote green entrepreneurship without having to liberalise monetary policy. And for the climate and the environment, it would probably be better to make digital payments than to let the paper press roll. The Radical Left recognises that there are some movements in society at home and abroad to reduce the number of players in transactions, and that is something we want to address. We also acknowledge that the alternative lists up a number of international projects of this kind and that it is a group, when you look at their website, of very committed people on Djursland who are passionate about this. The Radical Left can help to look at these projects and to see in a curious way whether we can learn anything by making room for them, but this must be done as a very closed and controlled project. However, we cannot support the removal and modification of the content of the provisions which are being proposed here to allow banknotes to roll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122929	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519122933	Thank you. I actually hear that the Radical Left is positive that we could do some tests. If that's how I'm supposed to hear it, I think it sounds really interesting, and I'd really like to talk about it. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur will confirm that. The second point I would like to make is that of speculation and the payment of taxes and VAT. I would just like to say that in the examples we have mentioned, there is no evidence that there is a lack of tax and VAT payments, speculation, etc. That, of course, is not what we are talking about at all, but, as I said, experience does not say that there should be any problems at all here. After all, it is a local currency which local citizens support and which local citizens say they would like because they believe that it promotes their communities and that it promotes sustainability. So it was just to deny the indictment. However, I would like to hear whether the Radical Left could help to set in motion an attempt at Djursland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123040	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123041	As I mentioned, the Radical Left acknowledges that there are a number of movements, both internationally and at home, which make it desirable to remove as many links as possible in different transactions. That is why we are willing to respond to the developments and see if it is a trend and a wave that we can jump on. What is just important to emphasise is that it must be done in a closed and controlled project where there is no possibility of speculation, where there is no uncertainty about tax payments, VAT, banking etc., because if you really have to get off. So there's a lot of uncertainty about some of these elements with these provisions to give it free and let the paper press roll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123146	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123147	Thank you. It is again just to emphasise that, of course, VAT must be paid. We are also referring to the other local currencies. But can the rapporteur confirm that the Radical Left would like to contribute to the creation of a closed and controlled project? the local initiative djurs as an attempt to such a closed and controlled project? Can Radicals give a commitment to this? Because that is something we would like to work on in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123223	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123224	I would like to say for the third time here that the Radical Left is open to the developments that are taking place, not only in Denmark, but internationally, where more links will be removed from different transactions. It is, of course, a choice: you can choose to meet the developments that exist or you can go against them. There we are willing to meet it, provided that we can do some projects that are closed and controlled and where there is no doubt about VAT, tax, speculation, banking, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123301	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123308	First of all, I would like to thank the alternative for putting forward this exciting proposal. That does not mean, however, that we support it, at least not as it stands. This speech is also on behalf of the Enhedslisten, who could not be here. I was supposed to say hello to them, and they also agree with this. Basically, we believe that the alternative underestimates the benefits of having a credible currency. It is very important for people and businesses to have confidence in the currency, including the absence of hyperinflation, and it is also a growing challenge to avoid counterfeiting. It is becoming more and more expensive to produce physical banknotes, and therefore it is also worrying to introduce something that is marketed as a currency, and it is quite unacceptable that taxes and charges should be settled in a local currency. This would put the public sector at risk of this currency being worthless or less than nominal, and there are also some examples of this in the history of money. Then there is also the problem that this currency should be used elsewhere or in companies that do not receive it. In addition, the local currency will complicate the tax bill, even if it is still to be made in crowns. If a company or a person has income or costs in local currency, there will be difficulties in determining the price, and while it is easy to write that the price should be one to one in relation to crowns, it is therefore not necessarily as easy to ensure that the price is maintained at it. More generally, there are other problems: e.g. be obliged to receive his or her salary in a local currency; and again: at what rate? Exchanges of goods and services against cash generally support tax evasion. Studies suggest that cash stocks might be twice as high as could be expected if they were used for white purposes, and local currencies do not make that problem any less. I also have the feeling that the reason they have gained some popularity is that it promotes opportunities for undeclared work, etc. That, of course, is not what I mean by that is the aim of the alternative proposal. If you want to do something similar to local currency, then I think it is more obvious to use the technology, i.e. to have electronic payment systems made, for example. apps where you shoot in a number of crowns, but where the app can only be used for payments locally. In this way, we would be fulfilling the wish that exists in certain parts of the country, and also what I actually see as the purpose of the alternative proposal, and then we could call the currency unit what we want. What matters is that it is backed up by one for one of the crowns. Precisely because it is electronic, cheating can also be avoided, and the other disadvantages do not exist because there is full coverage in crowns. After all, we are talking more and more about money creation and what the role of the National Bank is in this time, when there are also challenges from the technological side, money creation, which, especially during the financial crisis, we could see passed over stone, to say the least, in private banks. In fact, things went completely wrong, and now we see both the really exciting opportunities that are with blockchain and bitcoins and new technologies, but also the challenges that can be in it. It was also something we had a discussion about here at Christiansborg a few days ago. I believe that some huge changes are going to take place, and perhaps that is precisely what to say, technology and technological currencies, which are actually overtaking this particular proposal to have a local currency. But as I said, if it could be cut so that it was said that the purpose is that you spend the money locally and that it benefits the community, and you do it via an app or other • I think it was the Danish People's Party that mentioned a good old-fashioned gift card; there are other ways to secure this • we would like to look at it more. Finally, I must also say that the relocation from rural areas towards cities is a global phenomenon. That doesn't mean we shouldn't do anything about it. The government has had the proposal for the relocation of state jobs. We have proposed in the SF a mortgage institution which must be targeted at rural areas, because we can see that there are problems in lending to housing and businesses there, and we actually think it is time to discuss the whole idea again. Well, it's a typical Danish we've exported to the rest of the world. It's a little forgotten, and it's time to rethink it. Together with employees-owned companies and some of the local initiatives that Mrs Josephine Fock also mentioned, this is something that could create a new breeding ground for rural growth and development.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123831	Then it is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123835	Thank you. It's just to point out that it's voluntary. I think the rapporteur was told in his speech that then you were obliged to get your salary paid in local Djurs. No, you don't. This is voluntary. It is voluntary for the locals whether they want to make an exchange for local Djurs, for example, so nobody is forced to do anything. Tax and VAT have been mentioned before, and it is, of course, a matter of relationship with one in relation to the exchange rate, so of course you pay what you have to pay. However, I would like to sign with the rapporteur. Our proposal does not just say that it should be physical notes. The initiatives that exist in the various countries are based on both digital and physical means of payment. As I hear the rapporteur, the rapporteur would like to help to continue working on making digital currencies. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519123933	Yeah, that's quite correct, as long as it's tied up on the crown. Once again, we could be worried about what would happen. Now we live in a capitalist world. There are some of us who would like it to be different, but that is the way it is, and the Danish crown can be attacked, for speculation. The whole discussion of whether the Danish krone should be tied up to the euro is a different discussion, but we are just concerned that if you do exactly what the Alternative proposes, we risk going beyond the Danish economy anyway that I wish we lived in another society. However, I think that one step could be exactly what I hear Mrs Josephine Fock and I agree with, namely to say: then you tie it up on an electronic solution. You can call it what you want to djurs or something else and it is tied up one to one on the crown, but it can only be used locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124035	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124037	We'll have to talk about that. Once again, I would like to stress that it is a complementary currency, and we still think there should be opportunities for both, because the fact that there is a physical element also promotes the locality. At least that is what can be seen from the other local experiences that are around Europe. But it is just to stress once again: it is a complementary currency, so we do not abolish the crown. We're not saying that the crown can't be used locally in these areas. And again, it is important to emphasise that there is voluntaryness. But I can't wait to talk to SF about it in committee work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124111	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124113	Thank you, President. I think that we who have some concerns, but who also think that this is the right way to go, and the alternative could meet by saying, paragraph 1, that if it is about the technological solutions, you can tie it up to one on the crown, and paragraph 2, that if it is about the physical one, too, in order to have something symbolic or something that gives some ownership, then it may be in the form of a gift card called Djurs, or whatever it is called, but which is tied up to the crown. Then, as I see it, it would actually serve the same purpose without containing the uncertainties that we see at least.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124152	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124159	Thank you. We are discussing a motion for a resolution from the Alternative to allow local currencies to be introduced in Denmark. I would like to start by thanking the alternative for raising the debate. I would also like to say that I think it is actually an exciting proposal, although it is probably at the slightly coloured end of the scale. I have a great deal of sympathy for the intentions behind the proposal, namely to strengthen local trade, because increased local trade is good for the local community and, at the same time, there are also some climate gains when saving the transport of goods and so on. Local trade can also help to strengthen a Denmark in better balance. So far, so good. We agree with that. We agree with the intentions of the proposal, but the concrete lever that will then be used to promote that development is not acceptable to us. We cannot back that up. We believe more that we must ensure that it is cheaper to be a trader in Denmark, that it will be cheaper for the small trader if there is less bureaucracy, fewer taxes and lower taxes. We believe that this can help to maintain more jobs in Denmark and that you can produce more goods in Denmark and thus ensure increased consumption of local goods. We do not believe that the introduction of local currencies is the right way to go, because it seems like a kind of customs wall, because there will be exchange charges, exchange losses, etc., which must be taken into account. In fact, in the Conservative People's Party, we would rather go the opposite way: an increase in free trade. This makes us richer as a society, and it also gives us a stronger foundation for investing in our communities and meeting climate challenges, etc. Another and not insignificant disadvantage of the proposal is the whole question of counterparty risk. This has been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs. But this is all about what happens if the issuers go bankrupt. Can there be speculation against the local currency? What happens to price developments etc. etc.? There are a lot of risks which can be difficult to foresee and which can at least be a weakness in the proposal, which I think is interesting. But that is probably mostly in relation to the intentions behind it, because we cannot support the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124411	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124413	Thank you to the rapporteur and for the nice words about intentions. Can I extend them to the extent that the Conservatives might be involved in making a report on this in committee?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124429	When I say that we are in favour of the intentions behind the proposal, it is of course because we also think it is important to ensure good conditions for small local craftsmen, entrepreneurs and whatever else it may be. So far, so good. I just think that we very much disagree with which levers should be used to promote that development. We believe more that it is by ensuring less bureaucracy for economic operators, lower taxes and charges. And that's not necessarily what this proposal is about. Never say never, but I think we're so far apart that I'm having a hard time imagining it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124501	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124505	Now I see the Conservatives as the green flank in the bourgeois bloc, and this promotes sustainability. It does, of course, encourage the purchase of locally produced goods which have not been used long physical lines to transport. That is why it promotes sustainability. This is also what can be seen in the local initiatives that have been around Europe. I would therefore urge the Conservatives to consider, since they now think that the intentions of this proposal are good, to help create a joint report in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124550	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124551	Thank you for your invitation. I believe that this proposal has a marginal impact on what the proposers want to achieve in relation to local trade. We believe much more in creating a better framework for Danish business, so as to maintain production in Denmark and maintain jobs in Denmark and thus prevent goods from having to be transported across the world in order to achieve profitability and to make them attractive to customers. So, unfortunately, I think that we are still so far apart that I find it difficult to see that we can land this together. But the intentions are not wrong: this is to ensure increased local production and secure Danish jobs. So far as we are concerned, we agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. And then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519124641	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. And thank you very much to the rapporteurs for helping to debate this proposal. I would like to stress once again that it is a matter of volunteering, that is to say it is not a matter of pushing anything down on your head out there locally if you want to do it here. Of course you have to pay tax and VAT. What lies in our proposal is that it can be used both physically and digitally. But in particular, I would like to thank the Radical Left, the Liberal Alliance, the SF and the Enhedslist for being able to continue working on this; we very much appreciate it. After all, in the alternative, we think that if we are to solve the new challenges we are facing, we must have new answers. One of the key questions that needs to be answered is how we can live more sustainablely in the future than we do today. This is a question which we must, of course, answer at all levels, but in particular at the local level. And it is the case that, in relation to the initiatives around Europe, we can see that local currencies support local businesses and local communities and thus support the sustainable development of local communities, both on the economic, social and environmental bottom lines. Local currency has the potential to become a central part of the close local solutions that we would like to promote, and this helps to solve the problems we also have, about country and city, where we can see that rural areas have more difficulty in achieving sustainable growth. We can see from abroad that local currency supports the local economy, supports local communities and strongly supports local green initiatives. Research shows that one of the key parameters for the functioning of the economy in the local community is how much money is being spent in the local community. And here it is that the experience with the British brigade shows that money that has been exchanged into local currency is to a large extent going to be in the local community concerned. It is the case that every time 10 British pounds are exchanged to 10 British pounds, 8.5 pounds are spent in the local community, and the 8.5 pounds are then recycled over and over again. If you had to convert it into a Danish context, it would be like every time you exchanged 100 DKK. for a local currency, e.g. Djurs, that would eventually be used approx. 665 kr. in the community. And it's this local anchoring of the money that brings growth to the community. Then there is the socially sustainable bottom line, which we are also interested in, and it is the case that, in addition to being an advantage for local businesses, local currencies also benefit local communities. Experience shows that the local currency strengthens the pride of the local community and shows that people are more involved. And that means that local currency is not just about the exchange of money; it is just as much about creating these local communities, which are therefore something that the current economy cannot do. So all that lies outside such a narrow economic understanding of value, but which gives a human content in terms of cohesion and co-creation, is what these local currencies can do. Then there is the ecologically sustainable bottom line, which we are very concerned about in the alternative, and it can be seen that the local currency also strengthens. Because the more trade there is from local producers to locals, the shorter the goods must be transported and the less our climate footprint becomes. At the same time, experience also shows that local currency forces local producers to come up with local sustainable solutions. Among other things, they do. seen in the city of Brixton in London, where the local brixton pound has increased demand for locally produced products such as: power and green and this has resulted in local citizens' associations setting up solar cells on the city's rooftops, which can be used by local companies, and opening small ecological greenhouses around the city, selling salad to local cafes. Then, of course, I agree with the rapporteurs who say that local currency does not provide answers to all questions relating to country and urban issues and to sustainability. However, it is important for the alternative that if we are to ensure a coherent Denmark, which must be able to carry out a serious sustainable transformation, it is important that we have a wide range of initiatives. There is what we see the local currency and the opportunity to make it a central and important player in that role, and we think it is a pity that, because of central legislation, the Folketing simply says: you cannot, it is illegal. It is important that the rules we have centrally do not hamper the development of the Danes, and it is important that we clean up these rules which hamper local opportunities. After all, the government's basis says that it is important to clean up rules which restrict the ability and the ability to act of the citizens, and we do believe that we have here a clear example of a rule which hampers it. The law in question was passed in 1930 and it has been applied twice, the last time in 1942. And in the meantime, we seem to have been overtaken by developments in a globalised and digitised world, where cash has been replaced by the Dankort; where we receive euros in many Danish shops; and where there are hundreds of online currencies, the so-called cryptocurrencies, of which bitcoins, which have also been mentioned here in the platform, are probably the most famous. The legislation is obsolete in relation to its original purpose, and it is obsolete in that it hampers local initiatives such as: the fact that you can make local currencies. And that is really, really a pity, because the law does exactly what the government really wants to do, because it limits the opportunities and the zeal of the citizens. Rundtom in the country there are several different local citizens' groups who think that this could be a good way to strengthen community cohesion. That is why I think it is a pity that we in here at Christiansborg believe that we should inhibit that. It is now up to local citizens to know what can help promote local cohesion, local producers and local businesses. And I think it is a pity that we have to criminalise those initiatives if they are carried out, because we have an outdated law which, in other words, criminalises them completely for no reason. So I hope that this motion for a resolution will, after all, help to sow seeds so that at some point we can agree to remove the barriers to local communities being allowed, of course, to create local currencies. Because it will strengthen local communities, which we can see in many places, unfortunately are in danger of dying. It is a common agenda, which I hear widely represented by all parties: that we must, of course, promote initiatives on the ground. And this is a way that we can see making profits on both the economic bottom line, the social bottom line and the environmental bottom line. I thank you for your consideration in this Chamber and I will now try to work on it in committee, since we may be able to draw up a joint report with those parties who might be interested in it so that, after all, we can take a step on the road. So thank you for the treatment today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125452	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125456	In fact, I got a little curious when the rapporteur mentioned bristol pounds and the experiences that are from there. I think it was formulated in such a way that 8.5 of the 10bristol pounds are used in the area, but that means that there are one and a half that do not, and one can logically understand that. If it is the case that you have been visiting Bristol and have switched to some bristle pounds and do not get them used and take them back, then of course you have a reminder of the place. But it's quite a nice profit for those who issue bristol pounds so 15%. is a kind of money anyway, one must say. Who, in essence, does that profit come from such a system, and what is the tax on such profit? I assume that the rapporteur can give us a little more information about this, because I am actually getting curious now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125600	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125601	Thank you for the question. This is the case and the questioner does not have it in his question here, but it is part of the answer that you can change back again. In other words, we must remember that it is possible to exchange, and that depends on how they organize it and agree on it locally. So I cannot answer for how to do it locally, but I guess that in most places it is said that it is one to one, and that means that it is also possible to change back again, and there is then some kind of course some of the places you have introduced it. The VAT and tax payments are one by one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125642	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125644	Thank you. That is actually not what my question was about. In other words, there are some money that clearly will not be exchanged back. This is also the case with a great many of the schemes that exist, with gift cards at the Danish retail shops; it is sometimes quite a good business to issue gift cards because they are not redeemed. So the question here is: when there is money that is not being used in the system and is not being exchanged back, what happens to the proceeds? Who does it belong to in such a system? And, if so, if such revenue is created, is it taxable?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125725	After all, it belongs to the store that issued them, just like a gift certificate. If the exchange takes place in a particular shop and if there is a tourist who has exchanged and does not spend the last pound and a half, then it is clear that it goes to the store. In relation to VAT and tax payments, it is the shop in question that pays tax and VAT on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125752	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak now, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125808	The debate has been opened, and that is first the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519125832	I would like to start by saying that I am very concerned that the government is providing the development aid that we have set aside in the Finance Act. Denmark has lived up to the UN's goal of delivering 0.7 per cent. of GNP in development aid since 1978. This is done, among other things, by the OECD each year assessing how much has actually been paid out of development aid in each year, and there we have been among the few who are in the club of countries that have delivered more than 0.7%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in respect We have done so and, of course, the government wants to continue to do so, and the government is still counting on it to do so. That is why, from this year onwards, we will also be introducing a new mechanism. It is a fixed regulatory mechanism that will ensure that we will always achieve the 0.7% target. I'll get back to that. I understand that the proposers are also concerned about whether Denmark is providing the development aid promised by the Danish Parliament in the annual financial laws, and it is therefore also surprising that the proposers of the SF themselves did not consider it necessary to make these post-regulations when the SF itself was in government. I look forward to getting a good answer to that. But let me first comment on the premise underlying the motion for a resolution. The proposers state that the decrease in consumption of development aid in 2016 is due to miscalculation of, among other things. the number of asylum seekers who, according to the proposers, could have been avoided. That is simply not true. On the contrary, it is quite normal that activity-driven appropriations, such as those relating to the environment, should be included in the budget. refugee expenditure on the accounts differs from budgeting in the Finance Act. It cannot come as a surprise to most of us who usually deal with financial matters quite a bit. Precisely because there is such uncertainty about the estimate of refugee reception, the government decided to reverse the use of minor spending on refugee reception costs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in December 2016. We used the most up-to-date estimates at that time, and thus at that time we used most accurate estimates of the costs of refugee reception. The proposers nevertheless believe that we could have avoided achieving less spending on development aid, but in that case it would require someone, such as the proposers, to have an ability, a crystal ball, a method of calculation or something better at predicting the final costs of refugee reception, our EU contribution or even GNP development than that of the government. At the same time one may wonder that the crystal ball then did not apply back in 2012 or 2013, when SF sat in government, for both in 2012 and 2013 several hundred million kroner were spent on the accounts less in development aid than budgeted, among other things. the cost of reception of refugees. Allow me to look forward, because I do take the issue of development development and regulation quite seriously. We have decided in the government to introduce a regulatory mechanism to ensure that the part of development aid administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the event of minor expenditure in the area of refugees in the financial year will be compensated in the financial year. This means, of course, that we are budgeting 0.7 per cent on the draft budget for the coming year. of GNP, and then the amendments to the budget legislation are regulated in order to take account of the updated estimates of expenditure that must lie between the presentation of the budget law and its adoption. In the financial year, an asymmetric model is then proposed. If the costs of refugee reception prove to be lower than expected, the part of development aid administered by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be provided with funds during the financial year. If the costs of refugee reception prove to be higher than expected, development aid will only have to pay back the money on the draft budget two years later, i.e. two years later. The asymmetric model ensures that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can plan the implementation of development aid and does not have to cancel commitments late in the financial year. After the end of the financial year, on the basis of final figures for total development aid, there will be a post-regulation of the draft financial regulation for the coming year. I believe that this is a model that guarantees that the funds that are being allocated are also equivalent to the funds that are being spent on development aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130318	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130324	Thank you. The Minister is saying a little boldly that we must obviously believe that we have a crystal ball when, in mid-December, we thought that it seemed unrealistic that 4 000 refugees should arrive for the rest of the year. During a consultation we had in the Ministry of Finance, the Minister for Development maintained the government's estimate for the third quarter for refugees of 10,000, although at that time no 6 000 refugees had arrived. We could have said at that time: we simply do not expect 4 000 refugees to arrive in the last few weeks of the year, and we are, of course, correcting it because it will have economic consequences for development aid and therefore for the poorest in the world if we do not correct it, because we cannot get the money on the other side of New Year. Does the Minister of Finance really believe that it takes a crystal ball to predict that for the last two weeks of the year the government's estimates simply did not stick? And does the Minister of Finance not think it is serious that so many millions of kroner do not arrive at the world's poorest?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130447	I fully recognise that the terms of December 2016 were, like the terms of December 2012 and 2013, when Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's party sat in government, namely that expenditure estimates were not adjusted until the end of the year, so that development aid was regulated, so that what had been promised was also set aside in the year. After all, this is a development that we have seen in the past and the challenge is solved only by drawing up a model which both makes the best possible estimate for the costs of refugees and recognises that there is something accounting technical that can only be clarified after the New Year, and that GNI changes from the estimates available in December until the final accounts are ready. So when you're finally going to do what you're going to do, you're going to be a piece of the next Finance Act before you can do it exactly. The model I have presented today on behalf of the government ensures that, over a 3-year period, we always have the 0.7 per cent set aside. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130555	In any case, I would like to acknowledge that this is a much better model than it is today. What we're saying is that now we know the numbers, and we can't account just for the transfer. That is why we are saying that the Minister of Finance can now put a penny on how much is lacking in order to live up to what has been agreed in the Finance Act to allocate to the world's poorest. You could repay it. In this way, you could live up to your own purpose for 2016 by giving the money and so forward-looking making the model that the Minister of Finance is talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130635	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130637	After all, every year the state has a framework for economics. Within this framework, the economy is fully distributed. We support primary school, we support health care, we support elderly care, we support police, we support development, education and research. That framework is, in fact, filled up for the current year. That means I don't have the resources I can just send in a particular direction. What we are doing with the model that I have presented here is that we ensure that funds are allocated to live up to 0.7. I think we should welcome this in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130710	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130716	Thank you. I would like to sign off on the fact that the government is now proposing to restore its accounting roots about this development aid thing. But it doesn't really solve that in the short run. What about the 1.8 billion? kr., which has been mentioned for example for the current year as a result of fewer asylum costs, and which stands and waits for, among other things. to be sent out to improve women's rights, get more girls in education? How can we resolve this in the short term, both with the amount from last year and this year as a result of fewer asylum costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130758	I would never dare to use words as a source of account for a principle which we have taken over from the then government with, among others. radical development ministers. It's too strong a word to use for me. I leave it to the radical rapporteur to call the system we have taken over a mess. I will look forward and see that the system that we are setting from now on ensures that we get it adjusted into the 3-year running period. When I told you about that model, I also told you that when you can see on a regular basis during the year that the estimate of expenditure has been too high that the expenditure will be at a lower level then you have to adjust during the year. This means that when our spending estimates for asylum seekers are adjusted down in 2017, the development aid funds will be adjusted up. There is the assessment at the moment that there must be a downward adjustment that is equivalent to a transfer of 1.8 billion. kr. for development assistance in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I leave it to the Minister for Development to present the details of how these funds are to be used. However, there will be a transfer to development aid this year due to lower asylum rates and thus lower asylum costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130910	After all, it is a little accounting when you do not spend the money you need on development aid when you do not spend it on improving women's rights, getting more girls in education and so on. When you have set aside an amount for development aid, which is then not spent as a result of fewer asylum costs, then you have to get that money out to work. So it's kind of messed up. And it is wonderful that you now realise that it is some money that is going to work. So I'm glad to hear it. I would like to clarify when we expect it to happen. How long do these people who need help have to wait? When are we gonna send this money out to help those places where it's most needed? I think it's really urgent. Why wait for all these models when so many people are waiting for help?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519130959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131004	Therefore, for the sake of good order, I just repeat that what is now called accounting root was applicable in 2012 and 2013. Funds were allocated to the draft Finance Act and to the adopted Finance Act, which was not used because it was not regulated in the end of 2012 and 2013. What we are doing now is a mid-term regulation in which we can see that asylum figures have fallen due to the austerity that the government has made. As a result, the costs will be reduced and the money will be transferred. That money must be compared with the fact that this year we already have in the adopted Finance Act the highest level of humanitarian aid ever, namely 2.4 billion. kr. So the means of emergency aid are, in fact, present in what we have. And I am quite sure that the Minister for Development is very, very quickly also ready with a model to distribute the 1.8 billion. kr., which is estimated to have to be moved back from the reservation to refugee reception to development aid and development assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131103	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131106	There are two things in this. There is, of course, a political view as to how much we need to spend on it, which is why there are different interests. There is, of course, the crucial difference that the previous government had a significant margin down to the 0.7%. There was no need to discuss whether we ever held 0.7 per cent, because the goal was actually to go further than 0.7 per cent. It is, of course, formal for this government too, because the government has written in its strategy paper that it must be at least now the Minister of Finance says it has to be 0.7%. The strategy states that it must be at least 0.7%. I remember that because I myself have been involved in trying to push to get there to stand at least. But I would like to ask: why was the government so stubborn last year, when among other things. Mr. Holger K. Nielsen raised the question to various ministers and said that it was now going wrong? And as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen mentioned here, it was not possible to move the government itself in December. What caused this stubbornness at the time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131207	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131210	First of all, what we are discussing here is a model of principle. So it's not a model that depends on whether you're 0.7 or 0.73 or 0.79 or 0.8 or something. It is a model of principle as to whether what is being set aside is also being used. I have mentioned this sometimes: what we are doing here is a break with the previous government, which, in 2012 and 2013, set aside more funds for development aid than were actually spent in this area because it was not adjusted down and because it did not have a mechanism that drew it over the years, so that the differences that might exist were distributed and ensured that over a 3-year current average the agreed and set-aside amount would always be reached, which in the eyes of the government should be 0.7%. We assessed last autumn what the latest updated estimates were and used the sources that were for what the level of expenditure would be. And these are the ones on which we organized our administration of development aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131312	Now I'm not so old that I need to have it repeated. I heard the Minister's reply, and I would also like to say: let us try to look at that model. But it is not easy to look at such a model when you just get a few cues in a speech. I'd like to look at paper how it works. It's likely that it can fix those things up a little bit. But it is not true that the Minister used the available sources last year. He used old sources in December, and there was an enormous stubbornness when we discussed it. Anyone could see it. Everyone could see that it was logical that the number of refugees budgeted for could not be reached in 2-3 weeks. There was a stubbornness in the government, and my suspicion is that, of course, one wanted to have overbudgeted so that one could put the money back in the box for tax cuts or other strange things that the government also wants to have implemented. Then the Minister can say: it was not. But why was one so stubborn at that time? That's why I ask about it and claim otherwise?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131409	I would just like to say that with the budget law introduced under the then Minister for Finance Bjarne Corydon, it is not possible to take a small consumption one year and use for increased consumption another year. Then every year must be financed in itself. And this means that whether we spent more money or less money on development aid than expected in 2016, they cannot participate in funding increased expenditure or lower taxes in 2017 onwards. The suspicion that you had to have some political motive in order to do something specific, I can strongly reject it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131445	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131449	Thank you, Minister. In relation to the new model, as I understand the Minister, a mid-term review will be carried out. Does this mean that the money will come to developing countries on such a regular basis? Well, can't the minister explain that model a little more clearly to me? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131512	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131514	An amount equal to 0.7% is set aside in the draft Finance Act in August. In the case of the GNP you expect, but if you come in December and have to adopt it, you will adjust it to the amendment so that you still get away with the latest estimate at 0.7%. During the year there will be some follow-up of expenditure. If the costs of refugee reception prove to be lower than expected, the money will immediately be returned to development aid in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is done in three stages where expenditure is followed up. Even the latest follow-up of expenditure cannot hit exactly what the level will be, nor can it hit exactly what GNI ends up being, since it is only known after the end of the year. Therefore, the last adjustment made after the end of the year will be reflected in the financial law of the coming year. In other words, if you have spent less money than expected, it will be added, and if you have spent more money than expected, it will be adjusted so that over a 3-year period you always hit the 0.7%, or whatever the Folketing may eventually choose to allocate as a percentage of GNP. So it is a model that both continuously makes adjustments during the year and finally ensures that we do not get into a situation where falling refugee expenditure means that we do not give the development aid we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131634	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Minister of Finance Jo, I think so). Yeah, you were supposed to help get in, but we're just gonna make it. Mrs. Josephine Fock, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131644	Thank you so much, and I'm sorry I forgot to push in. Thank you, Minister. I understand that in reality we will look at the estimate of refugees, in other words how many refugees we have, three times a year and continuously transfer the money to the Minister for Development, while the GNI is once a year. Then I would like to ask the question of GNP, because last year we saw the problem of knowing in advance that the GNP would be higher than expected, thus not reaching 0.71%. How do you plan to take this into account in the future? After all, we are still adjusting the figures once a year, which means that the money is gathering dust instead of being sent to the needy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131731	There is just the clarification that we are adjusting in relation to the changes in refugee expenditure that must be. This means that if refugee expenditure is lower, development aid will be higher, but if refugee expenditure is higher, development aid will be lower, so that the balance is there. It can go either way. In relation to GNP, I do not agree that we have deliberately estimated low, i.e. that we knew that GNP would be higher. We have taken the GNI that was in the Economic Statement in December 2016 and used it as the basis for how to correct it. I hope that we are good at hitting that, but I can only note that the economy, especially the national economy, sometimes develops differently than you expect, even at the end of December.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131814	Then we can thank the Minister. Then we will deal with the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519131822	Thank you, President. After all, we are in a situation where we have been informed very recently of the new principles. We read it in the newspaper Politiken, just before this debate began, and the Minister has explained the new principles that the government is going to introduce in the future. It should not be a secret that in my speech I would have asked for a better method of calculating what I had originally written for this occasion, so that we would not be in these discussions. It is easy to discuss how much development aid should be as a percentage of GNP. That must then be the political debate. But it is very, very unfortunate when you are in a discussion about whether there are numbers that are correct or not. This is of course something that benefits neither the reputation of the people's regime nor, for that matter, the people who are affected, in other words, the people who are fleeing from war and destruction, nor, for that matter, the people who are staying in Denmark as refugees. That is why I think it is very positive that the Minister has come up with a model. I must also say that although the Minister was so kind as to outline it briefly for me on a piece of paper just before the debate here began, we as a party need to look at the concrete and also expect the Minister to present something in writing. After all, we also have a consultation announced next week. I think it is on Tuesday in the Finance Committee where we have the opportunity to get more in depth with it. We will, of course, look into it. At the very least, what has been proposed seems to be positive. Therefore, with this information, I also expect that it will be natural and that will also be the question I will pass on to the proposers that we are working towards trying to produce some form of joint report on the basis of this motion for a resolution, once we have had the opportunity to get into depth with what the Minister of Finance has now presented to us. In any case, I think that would be useful for everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132059	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There is one brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132103	Thank you. It is also very good if we can get a model, so we get true numbers in the future. Now the Social Democrat rapporteur was also one of the critical voices with the rest of us, when in mid-December we could see that the estimate of 10,000 asylum seekers was maintained, although we knew exactly on the last man, woman, child, how many had come to Denmark. It was about the 6,000, and there was no possibility that that figure would explode during the last 2 weeks of the year. So, although we will have a better model in the future, some money is still missing that will not go to the world's poorest if it is not transferred. After all, that money is in the government's reserves for the 2017 Finance Act. Those reserves are not exhausted. Maybe the government's gonna spend it on tax cuts, on everything else. That money can also be used to pay the bill we owe the world's poor. So just to understand the Social Democracy's position on that: Although we picked up support for a better model for the future, surely we also have to pay the bill for 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132218	Well, I have to admit that I have not learned whether the government's intention is to introduce this principle, so that 2016 is also counted in this way. As the Minister has put it, it sounds as if it is possible to do so immediately. And I think we should have bored that out. Now, as I said, we have an opportunity to go into it on Tuesday in consultation, and it certainly sounds as if it is something that can be done. However, as I said, like Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, I have also just been presented with this model. And I can certainly see that using the 2016 model would probably also solve that challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132310	Yes, you can hope so, but let us now say that this will not be what will end up being the result and that the government will say that we are going to do this in the future, and we are not going to bring 2016 along. Will the Social Democratic Party support this proposal, that is to say, to ensure that the money goes to the world's poorest countries in relation to the funds needed to reach 0.71%? as laid down in the Finance Act? In other words, would you say: yes, we must also look ahead and we support a new model that will work in the future, but this resolution is specifically about 2016, so we pay the bill we owe to the world's poorest?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132350	Well, it's a lot of unknowns to have to figure into the equation. I would therefore like to see what the government has proposed in concrete terms before we deal with eventualities. I therefore think that the wisest thing would be for us to agree here today that the objective must be to make a report on this, because then we can at least get all the things into the next committee, based on what we learn in the conciliation that will be held on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132418	Then there is a question from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132423	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think the rapporteur responds slightly unclearly to the SF's rapporteur. Can the rapporteur not go further than that by wanting to look at the government's proposals? The rapporteur agrees with the intentions of this motion for a resolution tabled by the SF and the Alternative, or what? It's a little unclear to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132449	There is, of course, the challenge that there is no funding in the proposal put forward by the proposers. It's a small challenge. Therefore, the natural course will be if the government's model presented can also be reduced over 2016, because then it will be the best of all solutions. I think we should have a closer look at whether this can be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132511	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132515	Now I am quoting from the motion for a resolution: Parliament is instructing the government to increase development aid from 2017 by the amount that was missing in 2016 in order for development aid to amount to 0.71%. of GNP. We have agreed on this, so the money is in the treasury, I would say to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132532	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132535	There is no provision for financing how to find the money this financial year. That's basically just my simple point. However, in the model described by the Minister of Finance, this is resolved in the ongoing adjustment of the Finance Act. So, as I have said, I would very much like to see if it can't contain it. However, it is a little difficult to stand and relate to a model that the Minister has only briefly described on a piece of paper and here from the platform. So with all due respect, I would very much like to see it on a piece of paper where it is specified so that we can also ask all these questions. It would be natural to do this in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132620	There's one more question anyway, and it's from Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132627	I would like to hear from the Social Democrat rapporteur whether he thinks that this is primarily a question of technology and economic accounting, or whether there is no policy on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132641	After all, it is no secret that we have been very, very critical of this subject, and we have also called for a number of consultations on it along the way, because we just thought that the weight was being cheated. And we've seen this all the way through as a technical issue. So the question is, can we ensure that the money that is intended to be spent in this area is actually spent on it? We really care about that. So it is very much a question of technology. Then there is a completely different discussion that is recurring and that we can take. It is about how much development aid should be. However, when you agree that there must be development aid of a given size, we must ensure, and especially those who work with fiscal policy, that that framework is also met and that you deliver no more or less than what has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132740	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132743	Then I don't understand. If the rapporteur sees this as essentially technical, then it is extremely appropriate to adopt a proposal such as the one put forward here, and we can say that we will then have that framework at least until we have understood the new thinking of the Minister for Finance about a model. If we do not adopt anything at all, we will have nothing to control. Then we just have some nice words from a minister, and I guess we can't make a living on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132812	Now I am not blind to the fact that when we had this great debate in December, and I was supposed to say that was quite a bravalla battle, we also found that there was exactly one voice that decided that things could not be regulated. I do not think that majority has changed anything since then. That is why I am concerned to find out whether the proposal put forward by the Minister of Finance recognises the problem, including 2016, because I do not really expect that the majority that existed in 2016, whatever we might otherwise do here in the Danish Parliament, has changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132852	Then we were able to thank the Socialist rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519132905	Thank you. The motion for a resolution today, as you know, wants the Folketing to instruct the government to find approx. 800 million kr. and use them for development assistance here in 2017. This nett sum should be seen in relation to the money that has already been either allocated or consumed under the development framework both in 2016 and 2017. However, it is also a bag of money which, from the point of view of DF, should be found elsewhere in Denmark's household accounts if this proposal is adopted as presented. For example, it could be schools or hospitals that had to hold for it, and DF will not be involved in it. Of course, on the part of DF, we agree that funds allocated to the Finance Act should be used according to purpose. On the other hand, DF considers that the completely uncontrolled refugee crisis of the last few years necessarily means that the estimation of expected costs of refugee reception must and may be based on a precautionary principle. Anything else would be irresponsible. The current Finance Minister and the Minister for Development have on several occasions assured that, in quotation marks, the bookkeeping was under control. Today, DF relies on this, and the Danish People's Party cannot therefore support the proposal. Having said that, I must express my surprise at a number of conditions. Firstly, I am surprised that the proposers themselves do not see that the greatest uncertainty in the development framework is, I am aware, precisely the cost of refugee reception. Has not the proposers themselves considered that spending on development aid in developing countries would be greater if the cost of refugees in Denmark were reduced? It was a rhetorical question, because in my view both the SF and the Alternative refuse to relate to the fact that you cannot spend money on the swings when you want to spend the money on the carousels at the same time. In any case, I see the parties of the proposers infinitely calling on Denmark to receive more and more refugees and migrants, and I do not think that this is connected. Secondly, I am surprised that the government has realized that the reception of refugees is extremely costly, but the government is not yet quite ready to take the next obvious step. I am, of course, talking about establishing permanent, permanent and effective border controls, rejecting asylum seekers on the border and consistently returning those who do not obtain residence permits in Denmark. The external borders of the Schengen area have collapsed. It's a fact. The European Union does not have the ability or the will to patch the gap in Europe. It also seems to be a fact. Finally, it is more than 110%. I am sure that the number of potential refugees and migrants from the Middle East and Africa is almost infinite. The pressure on Denmark is therefore a reality today and for a long time to come. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for both the government and the proposers to acknowledge that, if Denmark does not take responsibility for its own borders, the influx of migrants and refugees will continue, as will the cost of their support. Thus, less money in the development budget will surely end up in the developing countries, and that is precisely why we are here today. As mentioned, DF cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133207	The first question is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133216	Thank you. After all, this debate is not about what the various parties think about development aid or about development policy or asylum policy in general. It is about respecting some agreements as far as possible within the discretion that exists. I hope that the rapporteur agrees with this, and I think that the rapporteur has actually said that something had been agreed in the Finance Act, which the DF supported, and that agreements must be respected. We had the Minister for Development in consultation in mid-December, where there were 2 weeks left of the year, and we said: Dear Minister, you continue to maintain an estimate of 10,000, although we know that there is ■ that there was at that time less than 6,000. So my question is this: could we not have made a more accurate estimate there, precisely in order to comply with the agreements reached, regardless of what else we think about development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133316	I'm not gonna be smarter than that. I'm neither Minister of Development nor Minister of Finance. What I am referring to is that the Danish People's Party has been given an assurance that it is under control, and we continue to rely on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133334	Well, the rapporteur is a representative of his party and, of course, he has to deal with the proposal we have put forward. I mean, I think it's a completely strange comment to make. Of course, we must decide whether or not to compensate for what was given for a little last year. And I think the rapporteur can make an assessment of whether there is a fairly large difference between 6 000 and 10 000 when there are a few days left of the year and whether you could have made an estimate because, of course, you could.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133408	No, of course I cannot stand here and tell ministers how to make their estimates. I'll leave that to others. I am referring to the fact that what we were presented with was that things were being sorted out and things were being sorted out. And it may not be a satisfactory answer for the questioner, but I simply maintain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133428	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133432	I remember that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party voted in favour of the development aid strategy or the development cooperation strategy, as it is rightly called. And it says that you promise that at least 0.7% will be guaranteed. I even remember the date when it was agreed I was present. It was changed from 0.7%. at least 0,7 per cent. Doesn't DF stand by it? Will DF do nothing to ensure that the government delivers what DF has promised to deliver?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133510	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133514	But it is actually DF's view that the government delivers what they promise. And again, for now I repeat it, I would like to say that we have been told several times that things are under control, and that is what we are referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133523	Mr President, there is one more comment I should like to make. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133532	Thank you. But is the rapporteur totally deaf to what happened before New Year's, when we had a discussion about last year's overbudgeting? Perhaps it was a deliberate over-budgeting. I should not be able to say that, but personally I think it was, in other words, a deliberate over-budgeting, because money had to be transferred from development aid to some other accounts. There was a crazy discussion, and the government wouldn't give in there. Fortunately, they seem to want to do so now, but now we have to see if there is content in these fine words. But does the rapporteur not see that there is also a task for the Danish People's Party about anything other than talking about border barriers? This has nothing to do with border barriers, and yet the rapporteur must talk about border barriers instead of taking a position on the real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133622	In fact, I think I am dealing with the motion for a resolution, and that is that I say that we cannot support it and that I fundamentally trust the government's statements and that it is under control. I guess it can't be said more clearly, regardless of my possible heavy hearing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133636	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133644	Thank you for that and also thank the proposers for giving us a chance to discuss development aid. Because this is an obvious opportunity to make it clear once again that we have absolutely nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary, we have much to be proud of. We are still away in the absolute superliga in relation to the disbursement of development aid. There are only six countries in the world that are currently complying with the UN recommendation to use 0.7 per cent. of GNP on development aid. And we can see that in 2016 we didn't just use 0.7 per cent. of GNP, no, we actually used 0.75%. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme, and any other expenditure on technical and administrative assistance not involving public authority tasks outsourced by the Commission under So, we actually have quite a lot to be proud of. Then it is true that it is really, really difficult to go in all the time and find out how and how it looks with the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark's border. We saw this starting in 2015, when I think that everyone in here was surprised by the extent and, not least, the number that was suddenly at Denmark's borders. It put a lot of pressure on the Danish economy, which we were forced to take seriously. At the same time, in 2016, it was also a question of what we wanted to see now. Would there suddenly be a large number of asylum seekers, what should the estimate be? There you have been sitting over in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration and constantly trying to figure out what was the right number. And that's where you've been downgraded in 2016. It also revised downwards in 2016, so that money was actually returned to the development area. But all the time it was also important, of course, that you did not start adjusting too low, so suddenly up to Christmas or other, many, many thousands came to the same situation as in 2015 and then, of course, you had to have a buffer. It is, after all, the system that has actually been carried over many, many years with changing governments, red and blue, and that is exactly the system that is also recognised and used around the DAC system. That is why it is rather special that we should now see SF propose this in concrete terms, because at least, as I am aware, they did not propose it when they themselves had the power of government and drove with exactly the same system. Having said that, however, we can of course also welcome the fact that in the future we now have such a visionary government which has now put forward a completely new regulatory mechanism, so that from now on we are constantly trying to regulate it even more quickly than the interpretations of the previous DAC system. I am very pleased about that, because it does mean that we not only remain in the superliga in terms of development aid, but also constantly have the pace and speed to step in. So to sum up I can reveal it's probably not a big surprise that the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519133956	That then gave rise to a few comments. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134000	Thank you. The rapporteur said that it is difficult to determine how many asylum seekers come to the country. Well, it's not hard to determine how many there are at a given time. In fact, the Minister for Development could say precisely, not approx. 6,000, but that's exactly what I'm saying. I would therefore just like to ask the rapporteur to think about a year, for example. 2015, when there came a lot of people. Can he remember any year when in the last two weeks of December, when it is cold and difficult to escape and something like that, there have ever been 4,000 people in two weeks?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134049	I hope that SF has also realised that we live in very special times, where it is extremely difficult to be a fortune teller and predict how and how it is with the pressure on Denmark's border. I didn't hear anyone in this Chamber say before autumn 2015 that now there would be a tremendous thousandth of thousands of pressure on Denmark's border tomorrow or next week or something. I didn't hear anyone say that. And I can tell you that I am certainly not the one who wants to put my head on the block and say that now we have to underbudget and then hope that it goes. I wouldn't dare. That is why I think that the mechanism we used to follow exactly the same direction as was done, even when the SF was in government, is very good. But it is even better because we are now introducing a completely new regulatory mechanism, which should also be welcomed by the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134142	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134147	When we were in government, we never made such massive miscalculations and held them, even when reality stared us in the eye. Well, everybody knew that 10,000 wouldn't be the number. If you would have hit exactly, the Minister could have said to his office: this is a simple accounting thing; I would like you to have the right number adjusted on 30 December. It's not something you need to spend many days on. It is simply to look at the exact number of asylum seekers who have arrived during the year and see what it has cost and then set it off. Is the rapporteur aware of how much education for girls, schooling, protection of minorities, food for people who cannot otherwise be fed for this money? They're real people out there. That is why I think it is extremely nonchalant when, purely accounting and very, very quickly, you could just have put out the right estimate if you wanted to. But the thing is, you wouldn't. You'd put that money in your own pocket so you could use it for tax breaks or other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134300	One would almost think that the questioner and the SF do not know which country's parliament you actually stand in. Because you stand here and attack the Danish Government, which is one of six governments in total, which keeps making progress in terms of how we make a difference with development aid. Nevertheless, we must hear that it is obviously now our fault that there are people who go hungry to bed. This government has arranged to have the highest amount of ever humanitarian aid, that is, the highest amount ever. So to listen to such rhetoric, I must admit that I take a deep stand against it. We have nothing to be ashamed of, as I said in my speech. Of course, what we have to keep following is how and how we can regulate it in relation to the number of asylum seekers. And there we have just got a very, very good model, which we did not have when we had the previous government, but we have got it now. We should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134355	Then we can thank the rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, in other words from the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134416	This brought me straight out of my mind because I had prepared a question for the rapporteur of the Left. Once upon a time there was a government that wanted to cut back on development aid, because they did not think that there was much about to support the world's poorest and that thought about how to do it. Yes, you could over-budget the costs of refugees, be a little more creative and bring some more expenditure, because then you slowly push some expenditure. You could also create a new strategy where you say that those who live really far away, far down in Africa, we are not going, but only those who are closer to ourselves. One could also change the strategy so that it was not the poverty-oriented aid that had to fill so much because there had to be money for refugees and for business. It is, of course, a fantasy that this was the case, but it is true that you can over-budget. It is true that you can be stubborn in December and say that you will not be involved, even if everyone can see that there is overbudgeting. It's convenient then to throw 800 million. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. Then you can send the Minister for Integration out to say: we are trying to stop everything that is possible to get refugees into the country by closing the borders and tightening the rules. And then we can try to be so creative that the OECD can just let us know if they're unhappy with our creativity. There are many ways of removing development aid from those who really need it, in other words where it really benefits; where wars, crises, hunger, disease, etc. are actually prevented. We have never used so much of the development aid in Danish development aid is not at the highest level, as the rapporteur of the Left untruely told us. Danish development aid has never been so low since 1983. 0,7 per cent In the case of GNP, it has not been so low since 1983. Unfortunately, I remember 1983 because my pedigree looks the way it does. And it is quite, quite unreasonable that we should be in that situation. This is a political discussion and I fully agree with that, but this is limited to a technical discussion, and I believe it is not. Now we are told that the Minister of Finance is going to make a new model under pressure from both the protests and the reality. He can see that he cannot stand up for any more criticism that he deliberately overbudgets refugee expenditure, so he has to do something, and there is probably a little to get into it. I can't wait to hear more about the fine plans. Of course you can predict such things. Of course, you can avoid being stubborn as you were in December 2016. And, of course, he can find a model that's better. I think it is good that protests and sustained efforts by the opposition make it possible for the Minister to find a different model. If this means that we get closer, that there will be more money for the world's poorest, that is fine, and then we call it a technical model. But there are all the other creative models to avoid contributing to the world's poorest. We also need to discuss them, and we should not forget to discuss them today. Another minister, the Minister for Development, said here in April this year that it is going completely according to plan and that Danish development aid landed at the lowest level since 1983 but that aid must go even further down. I have no doubt that you should be awake and sleep with your boots on if you are in opposition to this government and want a more decent and more decent development aid. All funds will be spent on the technical, administrative, creative areas in all sorts of other areas, and unfortunately the government has also tied virtually all parties in the Folketing to a strategy that goes exactly the same way, namely away from the world's poorest to business and refugee expenditure in Denmark. It is sad that this is the case, and I appeal to the fact that for this reason alone we will soon have a new government because, in my opinion, the most shameful of the policy pursued by the current government is that of development aid and development policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134925	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Michael Aastrup Jensen from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519134931	That you have to hear, sir. Christian Juhl stands and says that I should speak wrong, and then bring something that I have never said is absurd. What I said specifically and Mr. Christian Juhl went back and looked both at the video and in the transcription, when it was made, was that where we have the record is in relation to the humanitarian aid. And that's factually one hundred percent correct, sir. Christian Juhl. So starting to throw around with all sorts of strange expressions against your fellow Members, just because you disagree on political matters, is so absurd and so far beyond the bounds that I think that, frankly, Mr President. Christian Juhl had to apologize for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135012	That is the usual reaction of Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen when you step on his toes a little, he has to jump up like a troll. Okay. I tried, among other things. to quote his party colleague, who is now Minister for Development: development aid is at its lowest level since 1983, and it must go further down. The fact that we are moving around with the little development aid we are giving at the moment is clear. There is a situation in the world where short-term development aid for refugees has to be given and it is not even high enough yet. The questioner can be absolutely sure of that. The refugees in the refugee camps do not get what they need, according to the UN. There are currently famines in East Africa. Much, much larger amounts are needed. There's no need to jump and jump for that reason. So he can find out his wallet no matter what amount he thinks he can count up until now. Much, much more has been needed in the last six months.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135119	We must then interpret that as the closest thing we come to an apology when we have said something completely factually wrong about my colleague from the parliamentary platform. But then let's stick to the facts even more. Is it not true that Denmark is one of only six countries in the world that spends 0.7 per cent? of the GNP for development aid? Then why should we be heard that it is shameful and I don't know what? On the contrary, should we not welcome the fact that people are elected in a country which dares to take leadership in one of these areas? Should we not rather use the time and the harsh rhetoric against the many, many other rich countries that are not even close to reaching the 0.7% instead of accusing us of actually doing so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135203	If the Left rapporteur heard a bit of what I said when I am around visiting people elsewhere or they are visiting here, he would be able to hear that that is one of the things I often mention. However, there is no reason to boast of cutting development aid as creatively as this government has done. I would like to remind you that already in 2015, although there was a budget law, they said: we do not care about that, now we come to it and we cut this year. It's an entirely atypical principle that shows just how cynical this government is. It may happen that Mr. Michael Aastrup Jensen finds it unpleasant to listen to, but the fact is that there is no government for many, many years that has cut development aid so hard, even though we have the capacity and the ability to do something more. It's the ability to do something more that I'm measuring, and not if it looks nice on paper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135250	Then we can thank the rapporteur. The next in line to be taken is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135301	Thank you for that, President. I would actually like to start by reading from the Finance Act 2015, which, as you know, was concluded by the then SR government, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten. It says: "The government, the Socialist People's Party and the Enhedslisten therefore agree to reprioritize part of development aid in order to deal with additional expenditure on asylum reception... Specifically, priority is given to the Agreement for the Finance Act for 2015 1.5 billion. kr. from the part of development aid provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the part of development aid used to help newly arrived refugees and asylum seekers in Denmark. The principle used by this government is therefore a perfectly normal principle. It is the same principle that the previous government has applied. That is why I think there is some populism in this motion for a resolution. It's something like that, too, sir. Christian Juhl's party has supported earlier, despite the very indignant speech we had to listen to before, where we almost had to understand that how good a person you are is defined by how high you think development aid should be. I think that is a rather awkward way of debating this. Now we have heard the Minister of Finance present a new model of how this is to be measured and, as I hear it, it is quite well received. That's nice, of course. Finally, I would like to say that, overall, the issue of development aid is of course interesting, but it is quite different things that really move if you really care about the poorest people, for example. Africa. Those are quite other things that move people out of poverty. In general, there is a professional debate among economists as to how much benefit or damage development aid does. What we really ought to be discussing is how to implement a policy, for example. The European Union, which makes the world's poorest countries more accessible to our markets, rather than discussing how many tax dollars we have to send to poor countries. That is what is interesting; that is what moves something on the long track. We cannot, of course, support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135612	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135615	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to deal with this. This resolution is about maintaining an estimate that has been used in the past, yes, but which was quite absurd next to the dial. Well, everyone could see it. When we had the Minister for Development in consultation in mid-December, I think that even Mr. Joachim B. Olsen could see that of course we would not hit that estimate of the 10,000 asylum seekers. Mr. Joachim B. Olsen doesn't mean that, no matter what else you think about development aid, you should try to hit as close as possible to what has been dropped off and that you didn't try it in December 2016? For then, close to Christmas, you could have made a new estimate, still away with a safety margin, so you didn't spend too much money on development aid, because you weren't interested in that. Is it not true that an estimate could have been made that would have meant many more millions of kroner of those actually promised for development aid?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135725	Of course, you have to try to hit precisely. I don't think there can be any disagreement about that. On the other hand, it has also been observed, particularly in recent years, that there has been extreme uncertainty about the number of refugees and asylum seekers. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows very well that if there had been another government, it would probably not have been so much different. The point was like there was a lot of uncertainty about these things, and the budgets you put in, you stick to. That is the principle that can then be discussed. But to change the principle I do not think a red government would have done either, and I really do not think Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen believes that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135826	What can be DAC'ed or not is another discussion, and it was a discussion we had so much in the previous government. Personally, I do not think it is right to call it development aid that so much is being done on asylum. But that is not what we are discussing here. We are discussing the fact that there has never been such a massive miscalculation as was stubbornly maintained despite the fact that everyone could see that it would not come near it at all. That is why we could have said that we really want to live up to what we have promised and that is why we are still making a new estimate with a margin of caution so that we do not spend too much money in this area at last. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen used to be a fairly honest politician [Sound Outfall]... in any way likely that one would hit just near the estimate for the third quarter of 10,000, which was maintained?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519135920	But at the beginning of the year, there was at least a great deal of uncertainty. It could have been 5,000, it could have been 25,000. It is incredibly difficult to say, especially with the history of the previous year. Then you can have such a fundamental discussion about how to make these estimates and whether to be able to adjust them. But the principle here is that the very same principles are used, which the SR government used earlier too, since the SF was also in government in exactly the same way. Now, as the Minister for Finance has said before, we will have a new model.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140012	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140017	I don't mind reconstructing. What we did to the last Finance Act for 2015, which was, after all, destroyed by the government that came in, rather activist even, during the period, was that we took money from the business part, which everyone acknowledged was a totally failed way of providing development aid, even the Danish business community said it was flawed. Then, of course, we moved that money over to the refugees. We protested against those who wanted to move development aid, poverty-oriented development aid, and we were right. It was SF and Enhedslisten who prevented it at the time. Social democracy would have liked to have transferred poverty-oriented development aid to the refugees. Those were the facts about that negotiation. As far as the calculation model is concerned, I suppose you have to clean up your mess. It is a direct realization that the Minister of Finance is now saying that we need another model to assess things better. Should we not then clean up backwards, or should we just close one's eyes and walk forward and say: what has happened is bad?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140124	Sometimes it's easy to be a member of the Enhedslisten, because where would that money come from? When you talk about tidying up backwards, it is under the premise that some of the money has been spent on the many, many asylum seekers who came to Denmark, a situation that I think we were all very sorry about, but nevertheless really, very much money was spent. So clean up backwards? Yes, you can evaluate the models you have, but cleaning up backwards in Enhedslisten's optics in this context means spending some more money, and they should then be taken from some others or from some other stuff. So I do not think that is a realistic option, and I am absolutely convinced that it would not have been possible for a red government to do so either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140229	Well, that's not true, I'll have to tell mr. Joachim B. Olsen. There were 800 million. DKK that was intended for the development area. They were in charge of the fugitives. The refugees did not arrive, the year passed, and what was intended for development, 800 million. kr., was transferred into the treasury's fortune. That means that they should not be taken from anywhere else. They have been put into the box as a small consumption in 2016, which was not intended for anything but development aid. They were intended for development aid in some form, and they must then return to development aid as well. That's how it works. It cannot be explained away that that money was intended directly for that aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140317	But that's how the rules were. That was the principle used, and that is the principle that is now being changed by a new model. So I'm having a little trouble understanding the indignation. One might think that the principles are wrong, one might think that they should be different. It all has to be seen in the light of the huge uncertainty about how many refugees there would be. One can say that the buckle became much, much larger, and it was sensible and responsible to have an expectation that there might be a great many when you had to budget things, and then there will be a new model where it is running and rolling, and that should be welcomed in the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140403	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative that is coming. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140423	Thank you. What the SF and the Alternative have proposed here is, of course, that we require the government to increase development aid for 2017 by the amount that was missing in 2016 in order to reach the promised 0.71%. of GNP. We do not think that this is too much to ask, and I therefore regret that there is not such immediate support for it from the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, who have stood up here on the platform in exchange for thanking Enhedslisten. It is the case that the world's hot spots only seem to increase in these years, and we cannot open the newspaper without being confronted with a new humanitarian disaster. The United Nations has said that we are facing the greatest humanitarian crisis since 1945. In Yemen, South Sudan, Somalia and north-east Nigeria, more than 20 million people are affected by famine, and so both humanitarian and development aid is urgently needed. In view of this, I think it is really a pity that we should once again take the fight in this Chamber to see whether we in Denmark are living up to what was promised for development aid in 2016. From the point of view of the alternative, there are two reasons why we have been involved in this motion for a resolution. Firstly, we believe that the government did not reach 0.71%. of GNI, which is why we hope to be able to get Parliament's support for the government to increase development assistance for 2017 by the amount that was missing in 2016. After all, it was because GNI was higher than expected and because the last correction in relation to the number of asylum seekers in 2017 was not sent back to development aid. Secondly, we would very much like in dialogue with other parties on how to resolve some of the issues that we see in development aid. After all, the cost of the reception of asylum, which is being kept in the field of development aid, is the way the government has chosen to do so. In 2016, the government had set the number of expected asylum seekers much higher than what ended up being, and this meant that there was a lot of money that stood and collected dust, and it was not until December that the government went in and corrected with an additional allocation. From the point of view of the alternative, we do not believe that the money for asylum should be kept within development aid. We fully agree that this view is not supported in the House, but we clearly believe that we need to improve the model we currently have. I'm working on it. It is not at all good enough for the figure to be corrected only in December, when it was long established that there would not be so many asylum seekers. So our hope is that we can find a model to correct the expected number of asylum seekers sometimes a year, and there I hear the Minister say that in some way they have some of the ideas, and of course I welcome that very much. We believe that the figure could be corrected once in the quarter in order to get the money out to work instead of collecting dust in the ministry. After all, the money has been set aside, which means that in our optics it is not a problem to find the money. So we think this is a very important resolution. It's really important to have a debate on how we do this. It is very important for us that the money comes out to work as quickly as possible. It is really important that we achieve what is after all agreed at 0.71%, although it should not be a secret that we think that the figure should be higher. I am very pleased that we have managed to table this motion for a resolution together with the SF, and I am very pleased that, of course, I was just about to say that I support it. I didn't expect anything else either. I also hope that several of the remaining parties, which have not yet been on the floor, will do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140834	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard, the Radical Left, who is hereby given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519140843	Thank you. And thanks to the SF [sound... _BAR_ points of view. In addition, I would like to thank the government for now proposing some sort of recovery of its own accounting roots, where the money is not paid out to the world, to the poor areas that need what you really need. One can hope that this recovery and recognition will also lead to a correction of the accounting root of climate aid, where a lot of fine speeches were made in COP15 that now we should bring more money to climate aid, and then it was halved. Not least, we should also do something about the perhaps a little creative accounting, which is about this double-budgeting of development aid and climate aid, where some of the same projects are involved in both places. In general, the Radical Left believes that development aid should be increased. In the government of which we were part during the period 2011-2015, we helped increase the appropriations twice, and the misery and misery we are unfortunately seeing around the world is necessary. Now development aid has been completely massacred, and even more unsatisfactory is the fact that we are not even spending the money that is otherwise devoted to development aid, and we are, to put it mildly, furious about that. One might also question whether this should be called development aid in future, when, as has also been said in the debate, we spend a great deal of money on ourselves. It is just before that we can call it domestic aid. It's kind of like when you buy yourself a gift for Christmas. There are unspent funds from 2016 and also from 2017, so that is why we agree with the SF and the alternative that this is something we need to do, that is something we need to clean up, because it is simply necessary for us to be able to send money to the places where it is needed to do something for women's rights, to do something to enable children to have the opportunities that they also have in Denmark. It is only a pity that it is so clear that the government currently has a clear vision of development aid, namely that as few of the poor children in the world as possible should see the money there is and the savings must be wrapped in this accounting root that has to hide the savings, and that is just really, really a pity. So it is a pity that we simply wrap the biggest massacre in Danish history of development aid into all sorts of mess. Of course, we support the resolution and also hope that we can agree on a model forward-looking, which will also address the challenges that are here this year and which will also send the money that is unspent back to the places where it is needed so that we can get the money to work for the many good measures that are of course there. That is what is required for us to have a greener globe, and that is what is required for us to be able to strengthen children's opportunities, not just in Denmark, but in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141224	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we have reached the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141232	Thank you. Development aid must help people to live without need and poverty. That is what development aid is set in the world for, and that is why we must also ensure that it makes a difference. We best use public aid crowns when contributing to sustainable solutions and helping in the world's hot spots. In addition, we must use development aid to promote a world order characterised by the rule of law, freedom, human rights, peaceful coexistence and the rule of law. We need to help prevent people having no reason to escape or emigrate. So it is about stability in the world. For when distress and misery strike a country, people will flee from it, and when there is poverty and world hatred, you create fanaticism and radicalisation, or it can give the longing that results in the flow of welfare refugees going north to get a better life. Danish development aid must be ambitious, and it must counteract need, and it must help to solve the problems where people are. That is why we in the Conservative People's Party want a high level of development aid. It is not only for altruistic reasons, for reasons of neighbourly love, but also for selfish reasons. It is also in our interest that we prevent people having reason to escape and emigrate. The government has a goal that development aid should be 0.7 per cent, and when a majority in the Danish Parliament has agreed that Denmark should give 0.71% in 2016. In the case of foreign aid, we must also expect the Ministry of Finance to be able to control the economy so that it also ends up there. In 2016, we saved money on refugee flows because fewer refugees came to Denmark than the year before, and that money will of course be spent in the neighbourhoods. That is why we Conservatives have also said that the Ministry of Finance should have better financial management in the future in this area, and that is why we also welcome the government's post-regulation mechanism. It is precisely the purpose of Denmark providing exactly the development aid that we have decided on. Because not only is it interesting how much the OECD says we have spent on development aid, but the money should also have been spent and done good. One must be able to rely on Denmark to give 0.71% if the Danish Parliament has said 0.71%. Of course, when it comes to the SF's motion for a resolution on increasing development aid in 2017, we cannot support it because we are on the target of the agreements we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141541	Thank you, and that made a few brief remarks. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141545	Thank you. Sir. Naser Khader says you're on target for the agreements you make. One of the agreements made by Conservatives is the Finance Act 2016 and it was decided to use 0.71%. I have also heard Mr. Naser Khader says that he finds it deeply unsatisfactory, and I hear that a little today, that is to say, because we maintain an erroneous estimate that everyone could see was wrong, that is to say the 10,000, that money will be taken forever from development aid, and that does not, of course, comply with the agreement that has been reached. At that time, the Conservatives were not in government, but they made a financial agreement, so the new government did not comply with the agreement made with the Conservatives, and the Conservatives are the party in the blue block that is most concerned with development aid and says that money is needed for the neighbourhoods. Does the rapporteur agree that the agreement has not been complied with because at the end of December we did not make a more accurate estimate and that the money will then forever not come to what was promised?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141655	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141657	If you look at what the OECD figures say, you can see that more has been given than what was promised. But it is true that we made an agreement called 0.71%. We have said that the agreement was not respected and we were promised that in future we will respect what is promised, and we are satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141726-2	So I cannot read that from the ritzau announcement that the Minister for Finance has been sent out just before. I simply cannot see that it will be exactly that, but I have to take that with the Minister for Finance. But this will solve the problem we face for 2016. 'Cause the money's come into the box for less spending. There's money on the reserves, that is, on the reserves of the Finance Act, so the financing talk has nothing to do with this, because this is not a new initiative. That is to take the money that has come into the box and give it back to where the rightful ones should be. I understand that Conservatives do not vote in favour because they are now part of the government, but Mr. Doesn't Khader go so far as to say that this money should be given in an extra grant to this area because you owe it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141820	As I said, we have complained about it, we have complained about it, and we have had a good explanation, and that is it. What is important here is that it does not happen again in the future, and we expect it not to. What is agreed must also be delivered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141838	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141841	I understand, sir. Naser Khader's presentation so that he has been somewhat cheated that the 800 million. kr. We'll never see it again, and he's upset about it. For he said that we saved money in 2016 and that that money should, of course, be spent in the neighbourhoods. But they never will be. They've been thrown into the treasury. But there is something else I would like to ask of the rapporteur. He says that if we do not, we risk a flood of welfare refugees. Should we not try to practice using a slightly more neat language about the people who are fleeing because of war, disease and hunger? To call it a flood of welfare refugees, I do not think it is a good language. I think we could talk more properly about these people. They don't have any other options. It is, in fact, refugees in the most original sense of the United Nations, and we have a duty. When we have the ability to help them, we must also help them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141941	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519141942	In relation to the first: it is not all 800 million. kr. that has been kept. Even more money has also been sent to the neighbourhoods. So we do not agree that it is all 800 million. kr. As far as I remember, 400 million were spent. kr. extra to the neighbourhoods. On the other hand, I am not talking now about refugees fleeing civil war, but those who get into the flood of refugees, and many of those who come from Africa are illegal immigrants. It turns out when they get here. That is because one of the challenges we face is a population explosion, and then there are many who are trying to improve their conditions by getting into the slipstream of the other refugees fleeing civil war and similar conditions. These are what are then called welfare refugees, and there is the solution, therefore, not to open up borders but, as a former rapporteur said, to invest in those countries and buy their goods. That's the solution to getting them to stay down there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142051	We have rules as to when you are a fugitive and when you are not a fugitive, and you find out when you meet a human being. I just think there's a tendency for us all to talk so dirty a language that DF has introduced about people on the run, and I don't like that. Because it is as if it both brings our level of debate, but also our positions to an inhumane level, and I do not like that. I think that we should be decent and decent both physically and economically, but also linguistically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142137	Well, it's a word clip and a deliberate misunderstanding of what's being said. We are talking about some people living in countries where prospects are not good and they can see from their satellite channels that better conditions can be found elsewhere in the world. They are then trying to escape in order to have better conditions, and I do not think it is misleading to say that these are welfare refugees, and now I am not talking about refugees fleeing civil war and torture, but I am talking about people fleeing from having no living conditions. And there I say that the solution is not to open up borders, but to buy their goods and invest in their countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142209	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142210	Thank you. I would actually like to ask the rapporteur for Conservatives: how will the Conservative People's Party ensure that the money reaches the neighbourhood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142228	Why shouldn't the money reach the neighborhoods?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142236	Because, in the way the rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party speaks, I have the feeling that the Conservative People's Party has, as it were, put a little on its back with the government and with regard to the debate we had last year, when the Conservative People's Party was very concerned that the money was coming out. I do not think there is any certainty about that here, so I would really like the rapporteur to elaborate on how to ensure it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142305	Well, the money earmarked for the outlying areas must also go to the outlying areas, and we are sure that the government will take care of that as well. That's what we trust. Last year we had a discussion on the prediction of how many refugees would arrive and on the fact that the Ministry of Finance had withheld an amount which should have been sent to the neighbourhood. We have complained about this, and we have been told that it will not happen again, and we are very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142341	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. This is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519142400	There are historically many refugees in the world today. We haven't seen so many refugees since World War II. Many of them come from areas in the Middle East that we ourselves have helped destabilise with wars. And we are constantly being told that we need to help in the neighbourhoods because there is no room for them in Europe, there is no room for them in Denmark. That is why help must be provided in the neighbourhoods. It's the mantra over and over again. In March, I visited the Kakuma refugee camp in Kenya, where there are about a quarter of a million people living, and thousands come every week, among others. against the background of the hunger disaster in East Africa, in the Horn of Africa, which my colleague from Enhedslisten Christian Juhl mentioned. That is why it strikes me that the hypocrisy of the overall discussion about Danish development aid and Danish refugee policy is unbearable. It is clear that you do not want refugees in Denmark in the number you have seen because you think it is untenable for all kinds of reasons. And they say that it is in the neighbourhood that we have to make an effort, and then you see that aid is eroded because you have more spending in Denmark. That's one thing. So did the previous government. This is a major debate on what to take with regard to expenditure. Let us then put that discussion aside and say: OK, an agreement was made in 2015 for the Finance Act 2016 that development aid should amount to 0.71%. of GNP. It is also true, as the Minister of Finance has said, that estimates have been made on an ongoing basis. But we have never seen before that one has clinged foolishly to an estimate that everyone could see in no way would be able to keep track by no means. The year began with an estimate of 25,000. It could actually be sensible to start high, because the year before we had seen a great many coming. A good deal into the year I think it was August you could see that it wouldn't keep track, so you adjusted it down to 10,000. That was also sensible. What had been sensible was that, among other things, we should not forget that we are not in a position to do so. The Minister for Development in mid-December was in consultation, had made a third downgrading and said that we must, of course, live up to what we have agreed. We were at about 6,000 and we knew that there would not be 4,000 refugees in the last 2 weeks of 2016. Of course, we should have done what is right, namely adjust the figures according to what we know, so that the money does not just end up in the government's own pockets for tan and pussy and tax cuts, or whatever you want to spend it on. They have to go to what has been agreed, otherwise you have to decide politically that you do not want development aid at the level that you write into the Finance Act. One has never before had such an extreme miscalculation, despite the fact that everyone knows what is common sense, including experts who repeatedly repeated that it will not be true. It runs into a lot of money. That is the reason for our motion for a resolution. I am pleased that the Minister for Finance says that there will be a model to correct this. However, it is quite a bad debate that we have to read at Ritzau, after the Parliamentary Chamber has been opened, that the Finance Minister will present a model. At the same time as we are discussing here, there is something about exceeding the cost to refugees what was expected, the extra money is deducted from development aid two years later. But it has nothing to do with putting an all-out, far too high estimate. I have to deal with what is stated in the communication from Ritzau, I would like to say to the Minister for Finance. The Minister thus says that if the estimate is too low, if the estimate is 5,000 and it ended up being 7,000, you could subtract it two years later. But what we are discussing here is the reverse. You've made an all-out, far too high an estimate, and you keep it. That is why we say that, regardless of the discussion that can be held about what can be included in expenditure, what is spent on domestic asylum costs, what is regularly made out of estimates and so on, we now know that there is some money for the world's refugees that is missing. That is what we said in December. Unless the Minister of Finance wants to make the new model backwards, so that it also covers what is due for 2016, you obviously have to vote in favour of this proposal. And it is addressed to the Social Democratic Party, because the Social Democracy was so vocal in December in connection with this spin, this grip that was being made. That is why we must, of course, vote in favour of this. This has nothing to do with funding, so this is not a resolution as usual, where new things are being produced. This is about the government having to keep to what you promised. The money's there, the money's in the reserves. It has nothing to do with the budget law; it has nothing to do with new money. It is simply a question of giving some extra money in development aid, because it is due. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143015	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Michael Aastrup Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143019	Thank you. I could understand that the SF's rapporteur was very disappointed with the Minister for Finance's ritzautelegram and that it was therefore felt a little taken on the bed in relation to this debate. I don't quite understand that, because the whole presentation of this new paper has actually been in today's Politiken. The reason why I do not understand it at all is that today's policy article, which talks about the proposal, says SF's Mr. Holger K. Nielsen actually calls it a sensible proposal. Don't you talk to each other in the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143057	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143058	I got up at 2:00 a.m. A little over 6 this morning, because I, among other things. I had to discuss the tax commission, and then I had to prepare myself for some other things that were here. So no, I haven't read that policy article. What could be done as a finance minister was to send a text or an e-mail or have your official do it and tell us that this has been given to us in today's newspaper, because we have to discuss it in the Chamber, and that is an input to it, and that is what it is all about. I think that would be fair. After all, I am here today as rapporteur, and the Minister for Finance knows that, as well as the rapporteur on the Left, so if you would have asked whether we should not try to find out about this in remembrance, you could have taken that dialogue. I am also saying that it can be No; it is also about the difference, of course, that must also go to development aid if you are overbudgeting. Can the rapporteur say with certainty that this is the way it is going to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143219	Here you go, sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143222	Thank you. In other words, I can interpret it, sir. Holger K. Nielsen says in today's Politiken that SF is positive about the proposal, so that you are, or what? I am such a positive person, so I choose to interpret it in such a way that SF's Development and Foreign Affairs rapporteur speaks in some way on behalf of the SF when he speaks in Politiken today. That must then be positive, and I think we should only welcome it. Then something really good has come out of it, and it is that the SF can also look forward, just as the government does around a new model, which can help ensure that we do not have a debate like this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143256	I'm still missing out on the content of getting to know how to understand this new model. For example, it would. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Would it mean that one would not again be in a situation where one owes money, so to speak? Let's not worry about words, but let's call it this money. As I read it, it was precisely said that if you use more I would just say for the sake of the viewers that the rapporteur nods. So I'm glad to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143340	Then it was posted! Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143440	The debate is open and the tax minister is the first to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519143447	As the President has now explained, we are working together on three motions for resolutions on more resources for SKAT and SKAT. The first two motions for resolutions have been tabled by Enhedslisten and SF and, as the headlines say, they propose to hire 1,000 additional annual work for SKAT's control work and cancel planned savings in SKAT. The third motion for a resolution we are about to discuss has been tabled by the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, and the parties are proposing that the government convene political discussions with a view to adding resources to the scope of SKAT's action to increase control efforts. I would like to start by saying that the government fully agrees that there is a need to strengthen our tax administration. That is also why the government has chosen, together with some of the parties who have tabled these motions for resolutions, to invest many billions in rebuilding the tax administration, as the first government for many years. We have thus reversed the developments that have taken place in changing governments and a string of tax ministers, and now we are investing in SKAT. SKAT is experiencing increasing funding, there are more hands and not fewer hands. It was decided on the Finance Act for this year, which is why, as I have already said repeatedly, we are also in favour of discussing how to allocate more resources to SKAT if there is a need for it, and indeed there are areas where it is needed. But a basic prerequisite for spending more money on the tax administration is to find funding for it. I would also say that as a politician it is easier to go out with views about hiring 1,000 or 1,500 or 3,000 more. It is a view which is so easy to communicate and easy to accept and understand when you sit at home in front of the television screens, so that if we hire this number of employees, we solve all the problems. But the reality is a little different, and it may be a little dull in that way that I am not sure that 1,000 equals the right number. There is also a professional judgement to take into account. Something else is that you can't just hire 1,000 people. It must be someone who has the right professional qualifications, and once you have found them, they must be trained, and that is not done without problems. So I think we have to take into account some other considerations than just this political desire to spend more money and then mention an amount or a number of employees. Anyway, my message is that the three motions for resolutions are kicking an open door with the government, and we have already provided quite a lot of staff and resources to the tax administration. I believe that we will do more if needed, and indeed in a number of areas. In relation to the specific motions for resolutions, we then have B 97 on the recruitment of 1,000 additional annual work for the control work in SKAT, and Enhedslisten and SF therefore propose that the government should present a plan to employ 1,000 additional annual work for it. The government, as I have now mentioned several times, is positive about strengthening the IRS, but we do not agree that traditional post-control is always the most effective tool to ensure compliance with rules and that people pay the taxes they have to pay. Often it will be the case that guidance, regulatory simplification and digital solutions that work will be more effective methods of ensuring correct tax payments than traditional post-control. It is necessary to look at the efforts of SKAT as a whole, because in this way it will be possible to strengthen the overall control environment and reduce the tax gap, without necessarily implying that it is precisely the post-control that needs to be increased. We may need to increase post-control, but at least the other elements must also be borne in mind. And in a number of cases it will be more effective to go that way rather than traditional post-control. The Government does not therefore consider that 1 000 additional annual work should be devoted to the traditional control work of SKAT, and the government cannot therefore agree to the resolution. Then there is B 104, which is about the cancellation of planned savings in the SKAT. With the resolution, the Enhedslisten and SF want the government to cancel all planned savings in SKAT from 2018 onwards. As I mentioned earlier, the government would like to discuss whether more resources should be allocated to the tax administration. The planned savings in SKAT, if you can call them that, are among other things. The Commission will continue its work in this area, and will continue to do so in the near future. It is true for the Treasury, as well as in the police and defence sectors and a large number of other areas, that there are some appropriations running for a number of years and then they expire. This does not mean that the money disappears, but simply that a new political decision must be taken as to whether it should be continued or whether it should be greater or less. That is why the government considers the question of continuing to make concrete assessments of whether the relevant appropriation in the area covered by the appropriation should be extended, rather than a general extension without any specific position being taken. The tax administration has been given many more resources, many more employees have come, and I think that will be for many years. But it is my wish that we run as efficient a tax administration as possible and spend as few tax dollars running it as possible. Because as a politician, I would actually rather spend money on elderly care or health rather than spend money on a lot of tax officials. But it is provided that things work and work and that IT supports the work processes. That is why I hope that at some point we can spend less money on the tax administration, but that time I think is many years into the future. For this government, it is not an end in itself to have a certain number of tax workers. It's not an end in itself for this government to have a certain number of police officers. It is a goal for the government to have a tax administration that works, and there we must use the number of employees needed, just as it is a goal for the government that we have a police force in the area of justice that works. That is why it is also being discussed whether the level of resources is the right one, and we believe that this is still the right way to go to that task. I would also like to say that as recently as this week we have given priority to spending 25 million. kr. Every year for the next four years, that's 100 million. kr. In total, to strengthen the fight against international tax evasion. We have done so, together with all parties in the Folketing, in the agreement to strengthen the fight against international tax evasion. I'm happy and proud of that. It has been done continuously because there was a need for it. Therefore, the Government does not consider that Enhedslisten and SF's proposal to cancel all grants in SKAT is the right way to go to the task of rebuilding the tax administration. Then there is also B 99, which is about convening a political debate on more resources for SKAT's areas of action. It is the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party that propose that the government call for political discussions on more resources to strengthen control efforts. And if more resources are to be allocated to SKAT's field of action, then what I also mentioned in my introduction requires that there is some funding. That is not impossible, and I think it can be done, but it requires it. Therefore, from the government's point of view, it makes the best sense to discuss the overall political priorities of public funds under the Financial Law negotiations. That is where you have a political room for manoeuvre and can make budget improvements and find funding. That is where money is spent, and that is why it would be quite natural to look at whether the 7 billion. kr., as the tax administration needs, is enough, or is more needed; is it enough with the 1,000 extra employees by 2020, or is more needed in a number of areas? We are also happy to take the discussion on a regular basis, but the great debate must be held where politicians distribute the funds available under the Finance Act for the coming years. The Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party justify the proposal that the field of action was not provided with funds in the agreement on a new tax administration, and that those who are now fraudulent use methods that are more aggressive and more international and more complex than in the past. To this I would say that the government agrees that the methods of tax fraud are becoming increasingly advanced and that therefore there will be a need to constantly look at SKAT's resources for the control effort. However, in relation to traditional post-control, it is important to bear in mind that guidance, regulatory simplification and digital solutions that work will in a large number of cases, as I said, in the first place be more effective tools for ensuring correct tax payments. That is a point that we must take into account in the discussion on how more resources for the tax administration are used most effectively. In this way, we will also ensure that any investments are well-considered and future-proof. In addition, I would like to point out that it is the government's view that, as politicians, we should generally be careful to manage resources for specific areas in detail. It is the management responsibility of SKAT to give the best possible priority to their resources within the politically established framework. What the politically established framework is we are happy to discuss, and we are also happy to call for negotiations, as this motion for a resolution calls for, in other words to look at initiatives to strengthen the scope of the SKAT and also the scope of the SKAT, and whether more people should be involved in this control and part of the effort. That is why I have to inform you that the government is in agreement with what the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party are proposing in the last motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144544	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, first from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144550	It is obvious that we need more employees in the SKAT. Today we have approx. 7,000 employees in the IRS. With the plan put forward by the government, it will be approx. 8,000 by 2020, and with the proposal made by SF and Enhedslisten, which we are discussing today, it will then be 9,000 by 2020. That's not a very high number. In the view of Enhedslisten, we actually need more than that. So that is actually one of the least we should do in the current situation. I also have to say that the Minister does not want to back the cancellation of already planned savings, because why is it that the Minister wants to add resources to the SKAT on the one hand, but on the other hand keeps making reductions in the SKAT grant? I mean, you give with one hand, but you go with the other hand. I guess it doesn't make sense to say, as the Minister does, that the Minister wants to strengthen the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144641	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144643	In other words, what makes sense is the money that the tax administration has at its disposal, and there is therefore a substantial increase in appropriations which this government has decided to support by a broad circle of parties in the Parliament a historic increase in the tax administration. It is true, then, that after the 2020-2021 budget year there is a reduction in appropriations and other things, and that is something we have to decide on as we go along. I think that is a sensible way of doing that. Then I just have to say that I understand, sir. Mr. Rune Lund's question, but my counter-question could then be: How does Mr. Rune Lund know? Rune Lund, that it's just 1,000 extras that need to be done? It could be that it was 900; it could be that it was 200; and it could also be that it was 1,500. So, I am listening to what is the professional recommendation from the tax administration, and therefore I am taking that discussion continuously and will also call for ongoing discussions where we can then discuss whether there are the right number of employees. That discussion is welcome for the government's part of the effort, and we are happy to take it in the context of the financial law negotiations in the autumn and also the subsequent financial law negotiations. But just to figure out, that's x number, I just don't think it's wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144752	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144755	We listen, among other things. to the trade union organizations. In 2005, before the disastrous cuts began, there were 11,500 employees in the tax administration. So if there's 9,000 in SKAT by 2020, then that's one of the smallest things that should be. We really need more if we are to listen to what they, for example. says in the trade union movement. Then I also find it interesting about the funding, because as is documented in some of the tax minister's answers to questions that I have put to the tax minister, we can see that these tax workers earn their wages very many times. Some of them earn their wages up to 80 times before even one year has passed. Thus, a control officer in the field of negative VAT pulled over the period from January to September 2016 42 million. kr. Home. There's a really good economy in hiring more people here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144845	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144847	Well, sir. Rune Lund is right that there is such a marginal consideration that if you hire one extra employee in the VAT control system, they can earn their pay home many times. However, if you employ 1,000 employees in the VAT control system, it is not necessarily certain that all the 1,000 employees will earn their wages. It is also not certain that the socio-economic business case is linked. I recognise that there is a need for a better link between giving money to the tax administration and increasing the ability of the tax administration to function and that it is reflected in a smaller tax gap. And that is why I am also pleased that we have jointly asked the Ministry to carry out a study on how to strengthen that coherence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144932	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519144936	Thank you. I would like to continue a little along the same lines, namely that the tax minister says he does not know what the right figure is. We are proposing 1,000, and that will also be a minimum, because, as my colleague from the Enhedslisten mentioned, there were originally 11,500 employees, and it cannot be said that the SKAT is working optimally today. So it would be weird if it could work very well with far fewer employees than in the past. But when the Minister keeps saying that he is constantly getting updates from his official work about what is needed, then my one specific question is: what is needed? Is that exactly the number that is now, or is it more or less? That was one question. Then the Minister will not be able to cancel the savings either. Can't the Minister understand that people out there are therefore the people, the citizens... think it's strange to continue with some savings in the situation in which the SKAT is in? So the Minister says that it is because there are some appropriations that expire, and I would like to know quite specifically: what are the appropriations that expire and which the Minister does not think are needed anymore? So what are the tasks that are not needed in the SKAT and for which there are appropriations right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145047	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145048	But politically, we have decided that there is an appropriation in the area of social dumping that expires. I am aware of the decision of the previous government, and we are following the same principles as the previous government. And it is not the former narrow Left Government, but the former Red Government to which I refer. Does this mean that there is no effort in the area of social dumping? I do not think so, of course, in the financial law negotiations, but with a certain probability there is still a political majority to do something about that effort. I think it is fine that we have the opportunity to make these political priorities and that we are also constantly looking at what we are using the money for. It is not my wish to have x number of employees in the IRS or to spend x billion dollars on the IRS. It is my wish that we have a tax administration that works, and then we will have to find together the money and the employees needed to secure it. And that changes continuously.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145139	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145141	That was a non-answer. I asked: which projects are the money for today and which we can do without in the future? I did not get an answer to that except that one of them is about social dumping and that it expires. But it didn't sound like the minister said it had to die out. So you can continue with that. So I did not get an answer as to what things are of those that expire, which we can do without. The minister said earlier that our proposals for Enhedslisten and SF are not the right way to go in relation to the reconstruction of the SKAT. I mean, our two proposals are about more employees and about canceling the savings, but that is not the right way to go. I think that's a little funny. My final question is this: when the Minister constantly refers to the financial law negotiations, does he not think that it is not the right of the Folketing, if there is a majority, to say that this is how the policy should be formulated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145237	I mean, it's a majority in the Folketing that decides. No one above and no one next to the Folketing, that's the way it is. But I think that the most natural thing to discuss it, and if you don't want to beat politically on things, and I'm not saying that anyone in this room does, but seriously will support the reconstruction of the tax administration, is that in the context of the finance negotiations, you look at how much money is needed and how many employees are needed and that you do it on an ongoing basis. We have said that from the beginning. Now we gave a billions injection in a number of areas, but there are still some areas in the tax administration that are in need, and I think that will be part of what we will be discussing as part of the financial law negotiations in the autumn and also in subsequent financial law negotiations. And when we discuss it there, it's because it's there, there's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145324	Thank you. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145328	Thank you. And first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation for expressing support for the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. I fully understand that the resources we have to find must, of course, be financed one by one, because that is the way we are counting today. However, I would also like us to be able to discuss how to plan ahead or that work could be set in motion. Because it is a bit of a challenge that there is a very small degree of coherence between the tax gap, that is to say, what you get in, and what you expected to get in and then the discussion about self-financing for a tax employee, i.e. that an employee in the field of VAT recovers his own salary, I think it is 38 times. Could one not in the context of the considerations that need to be considered, perhaps in the government or with the Economic Council or other bodies, because it is clear that it is not something that one decides politically to try to see if one can find a model for a greater degree of coherence between what the employees are after all pulling into the SKAT and the expense they themselves represent, so that it is not only an expense that we have to finance one for one?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145424	I think this is a very good question, and I myself have a political desire to strengthen coherence, because it makes no sense for us to spend 7 billion. kr. on investment in the tax administration and perhaps even more money and then we do not have the opportunity to see and document a connection in a reduced tax gap. This does not mean that there is no connection. I think there is a very clear connection. Well, there's a difference between whether there's one employee in the IRS, if there's 5,000 employees, or there's 6,000. How the context is may be difficult to put on a precise formula, but I want to get mapped out and documented that there is a connection between how well-functioning the tax administration is, how much control, indicative regulatory simplification and other things you do, and then the tax gap. That is why we have also agreed that the Ministry of Taxation must do an analysis work that must be completed by the end of the year, trying to see if you can create a stronger connection than the one that is there today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145528	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145530	Thank you for that answer. I am delighted because, in fact, I think that is almost as important as putting money into resources in the short term. For it may also shift the focus from such an efficiency thought, where you think that you can just save indefinitely in SKAT and still get the same money in if you see more of a connection between the money you recover and the resources you spend, i.e. there is actually an effect of tax employees. I think it is incredibly important, also forward-looking, to find a solution to this problem also, of course, in recognition that it is not political, that we sit and decide what that context is. It may be difficult to document, but that there is a connection, I fully agree with the tax minister, and I would like to sign off on the fact that that work has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145606	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145607	Well, we're very much in agreement, so I can sign the other way. I look forward to the analysis being completed, and I am also constructively involved in a political discussion of what we are doing when this analysis is completed. But if we do not have a description of the context today, it is because I know that there is very limited material in this area. This is not something that has been dealt with in the past in economic terms, as I understand it. But I look forward to the investigation being completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145641	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145644	Thank you. After all, the tax minister is wise enough in the parliamentary game to be able to read when it can be counted to 90, which is why I think it would be wise to immediately stretch arms and, like the motion for a resolution on the convening of negotiations and the allocation of additional resources to the areas of intervention, what we would not want back in November, but where we are now saying yes to it. And in this way, it is the second time within a week that it turns out that when the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party are united, it is possible to get some things through to this government that it would otherwise not really like. But in the same breath, the tax minister says that these are negotiations that have to wait for the financial law negotiations. And that makes me a little uncomfortable, because then the spirit of the proposal is not really satisfied, because what we saw last year was that we were excluded from the financial law negotiations, and then we were told that we were not ready to spend some money in the financial law negotiations. So I just need to understand if this is an invitation to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament in the context of the Finance Law negotiations. Or what is it the tax minister has imagined?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145748	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145750	I imagine doing what the motion for a resolution says. So, it is, of course, a government's privilege to decide who to call for negotiations, and when there is a motion for a resolution here, I think it is natural to call the parties that want to be constructive and to see if we can find each other and also help to raise the financial challenge that exists. There is, of course, room for manoeuvre this autumn in the Finance Act, and there are also a number of concrete budget improvements. This is the case in most of the finance laws. If a signal is sent from a broad circle of parties that you want it constructively, I could imagine nothing more than that is what the government will do. There is, of course, a group of parties that are behind this investment agreement... not all parties in the Folketing are involved, but a broad circle of parties are involved... so I imagine that they are the ones they call. Unfortunately, however, I am not in control of what the Minister of Finance is doing in the overall negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145855	Sir. Jesper Petersen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145856	No, and that is also the answer we received when we negotiated last year with the government and could not get through strengthening the areas of intervention. The door was completely closed, and we got a right, I think, arrogant rejection in that context. That was so, among other things. on the grounds that the Minister of Finance wanted to do otherwise. And that can happen again, because now the tax minister is saying that it must be based on the goodwill of the Finance Minister at that time. I think we should get started now. It is right now that the draft budget is being prepared, so why not start the negotiations? You know what it is you're about to put into a budget bill, and then it can be there even when you have to bring it in at the end of August instead of having to have such a new game with that it's going to wait a few months and that you can keep one of them. The social democracy out of the negotiations in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145947	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519145947-2	I fully understand, sir. Jesper Petersen's wish. If I were in sir... Jesper Petersen's place, I would make the same argument. But that doesn't change the fact that the government hasn't made a bill of finance, and the government first presents a bill of finance on the other side of the summer holiday. And I should like to take down what the Social Democratic Party says constructively and discuss it with the Minister for Finance. But it is, after all, a government's privilege to call for financial law discussions and also who you negotiate with. But you have to have a majority, so if the majority wants something else, what the majority wants it to be, and a government has to comply with it otherwise it has to resign, you can say, and I do not think this government has any current plans for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519150032	Thank you, Minister. Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. And I would urge both the Minister and the rapporteurs to keep to their speaking time. This is an exciting debate, but it does not mean that we should extend this afternoon further. We must make every effort to keep to the time available. Here you go, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519150056	Thank you. These are three motions for resolutions we are debating today, and they deal with essentially the same subject. In the autumn of last year we strengthened SKAT significantly with a partial agreement under the Finance Act. We were given some much needed resources, among others. the recovery, for the new property assessments, for the development of a new EU customs system, etc. It is an agreement that means that there will be 1,000 new employees in SKAT. And by Wednesday at the latest, we were given more funds to combat tax havens; we were granted an increase of 10 million. kr. to 25 million kr. So we are actually already in the process, I think, with some historic boost to the SKAT, which should be seen in the light of a number of years of savings and cuts. We think that is very good, but we also need it. But that also says that I do not think we are yet in the finish line. And that's why, among other things, we... This motion for a resolution, together with the Social Democrat Party today, has the idea that we should have some discussion about adding some more resources to the scope of SKAT's activities. This is an area which we think we urgently need to strengthen and an area which we did not get into last year's agreement. The reason why we want more resources in this area is because, among other things, we want more resources in this area. can see that the tax gap is rising. As we write in the motion for a resolution, it can be said conservatively that it is 25 billion. kr. A year we lose. In other words, the difference between what we ought to get in principle and what we are getting in is 25 billion. kr., which is a lot of money. But it is also seen in the light of the fact that confidence in SKAT is declining, which is probably not so surprising because of the very many scandals that I think most people are familiar with. It also means that we need to create confidence in SKAT, and we will have that, among other things. This is done by providing resources so that people, although it may well be, think that the tax burden is too high, can be confident that when they pay the tax they themselves, the neighbor does it too; or so that, as a company, you know that when you pay your taxes and VAT, you are not outcarried out by a company in the vicinity, or where it may now be, as a fraud with excise duties and VAT. And it is clear that today's situation is not sustainable. That is why it is important that we restore confidence in SKAT that we have added some more resources to SKAT. But there is another good argument for it. It is that we in the Danish People's Party simply believe that it is a good business case that there is a lot of money to come for. I myself mentioned in my question to the Minister that it had been suggested in an article in Politiken that in the field of VAT alone an employee recovers his own salary 38 times again. It is clear that if you hire 5,000 employees, that is equal to 5,000 times 38. Of course, there is some curve that breaks at some point in time. But it might be possible that there was a connection, so that if you hire one more, it's 37 times again, but if you hire 50 more, then maybe we're down to 35 times. However, I am quite convinced that there is a good business case in hiring some more employees in some of the areas, as has also been shown in the negotiations on tax havens we have just concluded as recently as Wednesday: that it is actually a good business to have the employees sit and collect money in that area. And so it is in many other areas too. With regard to the concrete motion for a resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the SF on 1,000 new employees, we cannot support it. So we agree with the intention, because it deals with the same thing that we have in our own resolution, but it is going to be a bit like thinking about a figure, for why exactly 1,000? Why not 1,001, 500 or 1,500? I think that the right approach must be to do so always in cooperation with the current government, but also on the basis of the professional basis, so that we can have a sparring about what is needed in the SKAT and what we want there. It is clear that it is also connected with having a political debate on what kind of pressure of control you want. Because I think it is in motion for a resolution No. B 104, that it is quite correct to write that just as far as the reimbursement of negative VAT is concerned, the trend is quite violent. In 2009, 139 billion were reimbursed. kr., which in 2015 increased to 235 billion. kr., with a control pressure of 2%. So it's not much when you think about how big the increase is and how much money goes out. So some of the discussions that are going to take place will also be politically speaking to ask: do we think it is okay to have such a low control pressure, or should it reach 4, 5 or 10 per cent?? And what does it generate from the need for resources? The right approach to this must therefore be to find out what resources are needed and how much manpower is needed, instead of saying exactly that it is 1,000 employees or 199 or 1,500 or whatever it may be. That is why, at least, we think it makes good sense to all of us, together, to support B 99 where we have the discussion on it. But the intention is, in fact, the same in the various proposals, so it is not to talk down the other two proposals; it is just the approach that I do not think so surprisingly is the best in the resolution of which we are ourselves co-sponsors. I would like us today to also spend some time talking about the funding in it, also on the basis of what I asked the tax minister about • because I believe that there is a high level of self-financing in it, by a tax officer being able to recover his own salary many times again, which is not currently part of the calculation methods used, among other things. Ministry of Finance. In fact, I think that could be quite important rather than just talking about resources in the short term, because when it comes to the cuts that have been made over many years and that are largely the responsibility of all parties, so it is not to try to apologize or disassemble the responsibility that there is some challenge in doing so for free, one can say that it has no consequences in the SKAT in terms of just cutting down on the number of employees. I would like to see the tax gap calculated to a greater extent, i.e. if you hire a tax officer, it also affects to a certain extent the tax gap by avoiding any cheating. It may also be, as the Minister of Taxation said, an employee who guides people who do not deliberately cheat, but maybe just do not know the rules, so that we ensure that we get tax revenue. However, the fundamental, fundamental discussion on how to calculate how much a tax worker actually costs in relation to what he can strengthen the economy with, I also think it would be incredibly important to include both in today's debate, but also in the discussions we are getting forward-looking. That does not mean that I did not say this, as I did in my question to the Minister, that I think it is the case that we should sit and say what it is politically. It is clear that it has to be on some professional basis • it may be from some of the Ministry's people, some of the Economic Council or other people who sit and can bid with it. In any case, I think it is crucially important in the long run to get that discussion going and find out exactly how to use it here and calculate it forward-looking. So the conclusion is probably not so surprising that we in the Danish People's Party support our own resolution, which we have tabled together with the Social Democrats, and do not support the other two. And I would actually just like to call for the Folketing to support B 99, in general, because in the end, the proposals are about the same thing, regardless of whether you say 1,000 employees now or call for negotiations on it. We can then come to negotiations with that wish for the 1,000 employees; the discussion does not end, even if we want 1,000 employees, because we can take that with us to the discussions that will follow. So I really hope that the proposal called B 99 can be broadly supported in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519150800	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519150807	Thank you. First of all, it makes me very happy when the DF's rapporteur says that we are also about to look at the real consequences of hiring and firing. We can see numbers on it, for example. negative VAT, 70 times, a salary to an employee etc. etc. It is a challenge with the arithmetic models as they are today. So I just think it's really good. It has been a problem for many years that you have only seen SKAT as an expense, why you have just cut, and now we pay the bill for it. But once the nice words have been said, I just want to say that I do not think the proposals are the same, because the DF and the Social Democrats' proposals are about saying that you would like to be invited to coffee over by the Minister. The minister then says that you can get in touch with the Finance Act. But I can't imagine we're making finance laws with the government. I don't know if the Social Democratic Party is going to do that. So what's gonna come of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519150915	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519150918	First of all, I would like to thank you for the introductory remarks with which we are in complete agreement, so I will not spend any more time on that. Our intention is certainly not just to come to coffee, which I do not drink myself, by the way, because it is quite clear that we need to strengthen the SKAT. The fact that it is being said that it is under the Finance Act does not really mean that we should take it as anything other than a word clip. Last year we also made an agreement that significantly strengthened the SKAT, but we did not get it all, and that is why we will have a round of two, and a wide range of parties can, of course, contribute to a partial agreement under a finance law, but that does not mean that we absolutely have to be included in the big agreement on the Finance Act. It's actually very traditional in here, i.e. you make partial agreements. I think this could be a good deal, where so many parties in the Folketing could very well support strengthening our tax administration, just as we did with tax havens on Wednesday. I have little fear that this will be a partial agreement under a Finance Act. Enhedslisten and other parties may not be included in the overall package, but they might be able to see themselves in this part of a finance bill. So it's not something I fear very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151012	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151015	When we in the SF weren't part of this so-called "Borg Peace Package," it wasn't because we don't think that all progress is necessary and good. We also said that this is simply not enough, and we cannot sign that this is enough. That is why we were not there, but we have, of course, voted in favour of any improvements that should be made. That is why I also believe that if you vote in favour of the Enhedslisten and SF's proposal, you know what you get: you get 1,000 more employees and you get cancellation of the savings. If you vote in favour of the DF and the Social Democrats' proposal and there will be a majority in favour of it, the Minister has said that he is inviting the meeting. Does the rapporteur not agree that there is a difference between the consequences of the two proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151059	Yes, there is clearly the huge difference that SF and Enhedslisten have without any professional basis thought of a number and said 1,000. I remember when, just under a year ago, a resolution was also tabled which said that we should now have 1,000 new employees in the SKAT, because that solved the problem. Then we made an agreement where there were actually 1,000 new employees in SKAT, and now there is a new proposal that says that now the right number is again 1,000 new employees in SKAT. It just shows you're playing with a number. Why wasn't it 2,000 a year ago, because then the equation would have gone up? I am most in favour of us trying to have a professional basis, and of having a discussion with both the tax minister and with the SKAT professionals to find out what the figure is, both in terms of employees and resources, and in order to make the control pressure that is now appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151137	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151141	When we said in March 2016 that there was a need for at least 1,000 additional employees for SKAT, it was because at the time of the political reality that was, it could seem unrealistic to many. Then it happened that, just after the summer holidays in 2016, the SKAT out of the crisis was adopted a plan that all the Danish Parliament's parties support but where there was nothing in relation to the control effort. That is why we go out and say that we need 1,000 extra staff for the control effort, but we also see it as a minimum because it is a minimum number. Well, there is also a motion for a resolution that there should be negotiations. Of course, the Enhedslist supports this, because we need to have those negotiations. I would actually like to comment on what the rapporteur said about the business case, because I think that the tax minister should listen very carefully to what is being said from the parliamentary platform today. So, Friday 19 May 2017 there is a majority in the Folketing for a paradigm shift compared to how to calculate the economy in hiring more employees in SKAT. Can the rapporteur not confirm that we have a majority which will look at calculating differently from the way the Ministry of Finance is doing today, where tax workers are seen as only an expense?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151254	I cannot conclude yet, because I am, in fact, the first rapporteur to be on the floor, but it may appear in the course of the debate. But I have also talked to many of you next to the hallways, and I have the impression that there is actually a fairly broad understanding that one has to think more about the fact that a tax worker is also part of a source of income. I also hear the Minister of Taxation say that in answer to my question, and I also signed off on the fact that he has started this investigation because I think it is absolutely crucial that you not only see SKAT as an expense, as Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen also said in her comment to my speech. So yes, it's actually a little historic if you can change it. I almost think that is the most important thing. Employees and new resources are important, but if you can change the paradigm that you not only see SKAT as an expense and perhaps also to a lesser extent have the basis for just continuing the curve down, I think it is absolutely crucial that you can have a SKAT in the long run that will also work and can recover the money that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151346	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151349	The reason why I conclude that there is a majority is that I have read the plan presented by the Social Democratic Party, in which the Social Democratic Party also wants to hire 1,000 more control officers in the SKAT, and which is based on the same business case thinking. I think it is worth celebrating that we have reached the point where there is a majority in the Folketing who actually want to take a stand on the way in which the Ministry of Finance has managed this area for years. The last thing I want to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur can override or tell us a little about how else the rapporteur sees such a business case thinking around the country, for example. how much employees can be employed in the municipalities in relation to what you, for example, can do. can get into the other end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151431	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151434	I would very much like to do so, because I see it to a large extent as some common sense idea which is widely used in the municipalities. If you sit there and see that you can do something to recover some tax debt yourself, which is not working now in the SKAT, then you can hire a man or two and then get them to earn their own salary several times, and then you hire number three. It's such a common sense thought. If you can see that there's a good business case in this, you do it, and that's the thinking you have to have into SKAT. If an employee can recover his salary 38 times again, it seems quite horrible if you do not hire one more. Then it may be that it is only 37 times, but there is clearly a good business case in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151506	Sir. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151510	It is a wonderful day when you can stand and agree with everything that is actually to be discussed in the Chamber. I am very positive, and we are in the alternative, about the proposals under discussion today, and also about the comment made by Mr Beazley. Rune Lund came with us a few minutes ago. There is some paradigm shift in how to view skilled employees, whether it is an expense or whether it is actually something that makes money for SKAT. So full respect for it. That is why I also have a surplus to sit and listen to some other things, and I think that some of the things that sometimes open the door to a good debate may be precisely if you say that something someone does is a little stupid and something others do is right and fair. Exactly the 1,000 extra employees, such as: The Enhedslisten and we proposed in March last year is, after all, such a figure. It might as well have been 970. But is it more strange when we do it than when the government actually does the same communication trick after the summer with 1,000? Well, I think it's legitimate for both sides to spend 1,000, because it's understandable, knowing that it might be that we end up at 860. Sometimes it may seem a little silly that these opposition parties come up with some figures, abstracts that are completely out of the real world, but then the government does the same thing afterwards. Could we not agree that this is perhaps permissible for both parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151618	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151620	I understand the question, but I just don't think it's quite comparable. Because there is a difference that as a politician, where we don't have our hands in the mud in the SKAT, we say that 1,000 is the right number - not 1,001 or 1,002, but 1,000 is the right number - compared to making a political agreement where, of course, there are some professionals inside where it isn't 1,000, just because it was the right number. But that was what was a political priority and there was an economy to it, but where we also recognise that and that is why we are standing here today that it was not enough. That is why we want a round of two to say that additional resources are needed, especially in the field of intervention, which we did not get touched upon. It is, however, some sort of cooperation that needs to be achieved with the professionals who sit there, where we sit as legislators and are not part of the executive. That is why I think that the right solution is to make the motion for a resolution that we have tabled, and that is why we do not think of a figure, even though it is much easier to communicate. It is far more popular to go out into the population and say that we want 1.001 or we want 1.002 to outbid each other, where we just think it is more factual that we sit down together, not just my party, but like everyone sitting here in front of me, and discussing in the Treasury what it is quite frankly, there is a need to resolve the crisis of confidence and also the huge tax gap problem that is currently in the SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151726	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151728	I can actually follow that very well, but I can at least inform you that I almost rode on a wave from the Enhedslisten, as they had done a huge piece of preparatory work, and we then looked at things quite well and thought what is realistic and what is politically possible right now. So it wasn't just a finger up in the air and then thinking: Yes, it could be 1000! It was, in fact, because among other things. HK had also been through and helped us a little with some figures. Of course not an engine as strong as the government and ministries are with, but that is what a resolution can do with. But I believe that we are in agreement far along the way. I was just tripping over the fact that it was different when we said it had to be 1,000 than when the government said it was.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151757	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151800	There were not so much questions about it, but I am quite happy that it is just three motions for resolutions that touch some of the same problems, but then there are different solutions. I fully agree that it is easier to communicate externally in an article, to say a number than to say to the journalist or to the Danes that we want to have discussions. I really believe that one can see that the way one gets the longest is also in the process of negotiating with the government and then trying to find some kind of professional basis for why it might end up at 800 or 500, or perhaps exactly at the 1.000. I cannot deny that, but I hope a little, even when the other rapporteurs come to the floor, that we also support the fact that we are going to get these considerations under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151836	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then we need a new rapporteur, and that is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519151847	Thank you for the floor. The Left shares the proposalers' ambition for a strengthened tax system, in which we must all have confidence. That is why the government has also taken the lead in the reconstruction of the SKAT. We've set 7 billion. kr. extra for the reconstruction of the SKAT by 2020, and in fact the SKAT is the government's and the Left's main priority on the Finance Act for this year. This shows how seriously we take the challenge we have in SKAT to rebuild SKAT so that Danes can have confidence in our tax administration and have no doubt that we will come after those who choose not to pay their taxes. Honey is something you have to pay. You can't choose how much you have to pay in taxes. Against this background, the Left is in favour of motion for a resolution No. B 99, which provides for a call for discussion with a view to adding more resources and annual work to the SKAT. We have had regular meetings in the SKAT agreement circle and to get SKAT out of the crisis, because it is important that we get to the bottom of the many problems that have undermined confidence in SKAT and that have caused a billion losses to the Treasury. In this respect, it is commendable that the parties of the Folketing are united in this task and that there is also the political will to find the money that is needed. That is why, on behalf of the Left, I would like to sign. We should discuss together which areas of SKAT should be strengthened and how much additional funds should be allocated in addition to the funds already allocated under the 2016 agreement. As I said, the Left is in favour of additional funds for SKAT, but just as everywhere else in the public sector, the funds must be allocated to places where they can make a most effective difference. That is why it is not the view of the Left that the content of motion for a resolution No. B 97 about 1,000 extra years' work for SKAT is the right way to go. The proposers want the extra annual work to be used for traditional post-control, which is carried out in the SKAT Action Department. There is, in fact, better scope for ensuring that the rules are complied with than control. That is, for example, the case. guidance, regulatory simplification and digital solutions. Of course, control still needs to be taken away, but not exclusively. We actually have a lot of good options. The tools mentioned have the advantage of helping to ensure that there are no errors, whereas control happens when the error is therefore quite simply it is more effective to prevent rather than control. However, we still believe that an effective control effort must also be carried out. The Left cannot support B 97. The final new structure for SKAT has not yet been established, so it is also surprising that SF and Enhedslisten believe to know that there is just a shortage of 1,000 employees for recovery. Furthermore, the proposal is not financed either. As far as B 104 is concerned, the Left agrees that it may be necessary to employ more people in SKAT, which is also a crucial element of the recovery plan for SKAT, on which there is broad political agreement. However, one cannot just say that one should cancel the planned savings in SKAT. The places where the funds allocated fall are typically the end of interventions in the Finance Act. We should assess on a case-by-case basis whether these appropriations should continue or whether the money can make better use of other tax interventions. It is a work which the government is already doing, and the Left cannot therefore support motion for a resolution. B 104. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the willingness to strengthen the SKAT. In any case, that is what I am interpreting from the motions for resolutions that have been tabled. Much work has already been started, but we will undoubtedly meet again around the negotiating table to look at further steps in the recovery of the SKAT. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152254	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152258	I am glad that, as the tax minister said before, the Left has changed its mind when we discussed these things last autumn. I would really just like to hear when it is so obvious today that there is a need to strengthen the tax administration in these areas too, why we should then meet and get such a blank rejection and reluctance to strengthen these areas in the SKAT when we negotiated. Why was it not a priority for the Left when negotiating the Finance Act, when presenting its draft Finance Act, that there was also a need to rectify when it comes to resisting VAT fraud, strengthening the business equation, ensuring that there is control of social dumping, tax havens, etc., all the things that need to be promised but which were refused to do anything about when we negotiated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152345	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152349	It was in connection with the Finance Act that we made the huge strengthening of the SKAT with the focus on restoring the SKAT. And there really is a lot to address, a lot of areas. After all, in connection with the Finance Act, we contributed a great deal of money to SKAT. We added a great deal of money to different areas of the SKAT. We have always said that we are open to looking again at whether more is needed. We have not denied that there could be no more need, but I think that the time is ripe to take it up again, and it would be natural to do so in the next budget negotiations, just as we did last year, when we also had the discussions and made a broad agreement. So I think it might be natural to follow up on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152428	Here you go, sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152432	I'm sorry I didn't just push myself back into the second question. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm should not pretend that this is not a well-known discussion from then on. It was very clearly pointed out that only funds were set aside for recovery, property assessments and customs. That's what it was all about. Demands for all sorts of other things were rejected. We had a lot of discussions about that at the time. So we should not come now and say that this was generally granted to the tax administration. You didn't. These were the only areas I mentioned that were given priority at the time, and we were rejected in our demands for the other things. Now you change your mind and that is so good. I just want to hear from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm now whether it is possible to envisage that, as part of the financial bill, it will be a priority for the government and for the Left that there are means to negotiate to strengthen the tax authorities' areas of action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152516	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152519	So, in last year's Finance Act there was also an agreement that we would restructure SKAT, and that is something broader than just the individual issues. However, there is no doubt that our focus areas have been first and foremost where we have had the greatest problems. We have had property assessments that have not been overruled since 2011 by the Reichsaudit. They haven't been good enough. There's really something to pick up on there. We have a recovery system that is completely derailed. There is a lot of recovery that we need to pick up, and we have the profit tax case, which has also blown up completely. So we have some very important issues and I think it is natural to prioritise them first because they are so expensive for us not to solve. So it is, of course, a priority for us to resolve them. At the same time, we have also said that, as part of the Finance Act, we should restructure SKAT, and that includes a slightly broader approach to it than only those issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152609	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152613	We want the government to present a plan on how to employ 1,000 additional staff in Efforts, and we believe that this is an absolute minimum. We will, of course, vote in favour of B 99, because it is a matter of convening negotiations on the subject, and we are very interested in participating in these negotiations. What I would like to ask is the motion for a resolution on the cancellation of planned savings. In answer to question No. 232, which I have put to the Minister of Taxation, you get back some figures, and you can see from those figures that the allocation for SKAT will be reduced so that it is just over 600 million. kr. less by 2020 than it is in 2017, and the total saving from 2017 to 2020 is 1.3 billion. kr. And then my question is: is it not a little strange to have a discussion about wanting to add more resources to SKAT if one is not willing at the same time to put a plug in the already planned savings, which unfortunately is for SKAT?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152717	I am sorry, but I do not have Question No. 232 on the platform, so I can't really relate specifically to that. But I would say that there will probably be a natural thing in that when we hire people to help us clean up the SKAT, when they are done cleaning up the SKAT, they should not clean up the SKAT anymore. In other words, it should be the case that when we reach 2020, we have cleaned up the recoveries, including those we do not know whether they are valid or not. And then we don't have to clean up the collections any more. Hopefully, that task will disappear, because we are cleaning up the mess now. That is why we must also bear in mind that some of what we put money into is a clean-up, and it should not be something that goes on indefinitely. But that is why we still need to focus on how to secure SKAT in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152804	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152806	Now Mrs Louise Schack Elholm has not read Question No. 232, and there will also be many questions in the Tax Committee, including on my part, but the figures are still such that the budget for SKAT by 2020 is 620 million. kr. less than it is in 2017, and the, what to say, accumulated savings from 2017 through 2020 are 1.3 billion. kr. And since we are in a situation where we have a SKAT that is saved and destroyed, why don't we just put the cork in and cancel the savings when we have a discussion that we actually need to hire more employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152845	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152848	It's a little strange to talk about savings when we put 7 billion. kr. extra for SKAT until 2020. I wouldn't call that a saving. It is true that so far we have only set aside money for 2020, but it may well be that something happens afterwards. But when you are in the process of cleaning up, you have to say: for a time we are making an effort, and that is the effort we have set aside money for. Then we will have to follow up on the situation then.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152910	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519152930	Thank you. There are these three motions for resolutions which I am very pleased that we are working together here today. The first is about employing at least 1,000 more employees in SKAT, and the second is about canceling savings, which are, in fact, about appropriations that stop the Finance Act. This is quite common practice and it is, of course, up to discussion, as always, whether the appropriations should continue. Then there is the last motion for a resolution, B 99, from DF and S, which calls on the government to call for discussions on more resources for SKAT's areas of action. The last proposal supports the government, and it is also a very sensible proposal. It is a little difficult to oppose a motion for a resolution calling for discussions, especially in view of the fact that there are many discussions in these weeks about the future of the SKAT. We cannot support the other two motions for resolutions. It's like you just have to think about a number, 1,000 employees, and everything's gonna be okay. One might almost wish that the world was so simple. What if we could solve all the problems by just hiring more people? Unfortunately, the world is not like that. That is an argument which is often put forward in the debate. I have actually sometimes thought that it is really an undervaluation of the skilled people who work in the SKAT. It is as if they say that their work can just be carried on like that. You can just hire 1,000 people who can just do their job. Of course it's not like that. In many cases it is highly specialised, highly trained employees who even need further training when they are employed in SKAT. It's not an easy thing. It is also a matter of the fact that it can simply be difficult for an organisation to cope with the sudden creeping of so many employees. It's a little populist. I find that a pity when the background is very serious. So we cannot support that. As far as the appropriations that expire are concerned, as I said before, this is a discussion that is held in many areas every year when financial legislation is being negotiated. I think this is a sensible way of doing things. The alternative would, of course, be that all expenditure we adopt is just permanent. I believe that this will result in a very inefficient allocation of taxpayers' money. This will mean that it will be difficult to give priority to the Finance Act in relation to other places where a political majority might think that there is a greater need for resources. So I do not think it is quite serious that such a resolution should be dealt with in such a forum here. This is something that belongs under the Financial Law. So that's where we stand. B 99 we support. We reject the other two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153342	Thank you. Then there are a number of comments, and the first is from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153350	I would like to ask such a slightly open question to hear what the reflections of the Liberal Alliance are about the fact that control officers in the SKAT earn their wages a great many times. If we now take negative VAT, i.e. the refund of VAT, when companies have VAT for the benefit of the state, then we have seen in the answer to question 80, as I have asked, that during the period from January to September 2016 it has been the case that the employees who have been sitting in the area and checked have on average been pulling a little over 42 million. kr. home to the common box. We can combine that fact with that of the 235 billion in total. kr., which is paid in negative VAT each year, is only 2% that is checked. What does the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance say? Does it not give him, although the Liberal Alliance is not particularly enthusiastic about public servants and that there must be more of them, an opportunity to think that there really is a problem here and that we need to hire some more people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153500	Yeah, but that's the premise I'm questioning, so you can put it in such a way that if we could just hire x number more and multiply it by 42 million. kr., we can count on it to come in the box. But that is not the reality. I have to say that when I listen to professionals in the SKAT, I have also heard no one say that this is the way it is. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153532	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153534	At the moment there are approx. 60 people sitting in that area, and it is clear that if you employed an extra 3 000 people, of course it would not be the case that they all kept pulling 42 million. kr. home when it had been nine months in a year. But is it not obvious that if there are more people employed, then there is still a really good business case here and that it is actually the case that it is not worthwhile not to hire some more people to check that the money that should be in our welfare fund, in the treasury, also stays there or comes in there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153612	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153614	It may be a good business case, and I am not standing here and rejecting it. What I just think one should think about is that one retains a certain flexibility, that is to say that one actually listens to professionalism and leaves it up to a professional assessment in the SKAT where resources are going. Actually, I think they're better at that than we are. Every time we say that resources need to be used exactly in this area, we reduce flexibility, and I think we should be very, very careful about that. It's central control when it's worst, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153709	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153714	Thank you. The rapporteur says think of a figure and that the skilled people in the SKAT are like being downgraded to someone being able to come in and do their job. But these are some of the talented people in the SKAT, and it is the trade union movement who says that we must have at least 1,000 more people. We're all trying to raise the SKAT again, but the SKAT is on its knees right now. That is why it may be that in 5-7 years' time SKAT will be able to settle for fewer people. We should be careful to anticipate that now, but it may well have been tried before, but here and now we have so many areas on our knees, and I do not think anyone dares to guarantee that the last scandal has seen the light of day yet. So it's not like it's a number. After all, this is a minimum, and it can be said that round figures have also been made by politicians because you have to find some figure, including the rapporteur himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153830	Yeah, but this is really pronounced anyway, so it's just 1,000 employees that you've come up with, like, the right number. I think most people can hear that it may not be a figure that has been thought about very, very carefully. At least it's funny that it hits at 1,000 and not 980 or 1,121, or whatever it may be. But the whole premise that it is only about employees, I am not entirely convinced that it is right either. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Looking at the profit scandal, we can see in the report that the Reichsveringen made I think it's on page 4 that it says it was a competence issue and that it was about some competences. It is also about a lot of other things, i.e. why some people are being moved, etc., and that is one of the things we will have to examine as soon as possible. But that idea that it's only about more employees, I think we just have to be very careful about driving forward. Because I just don't think it's right or sensible. But it is very easy to sell as a political message, I recognise that. It sounds very good when you are in the debate and elsewhere, just to say that it is about more employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153953	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519153956	I think sir... Joachim B. Olsen's ideological opposition to public servants blinds him at this moment. For the rapporteur, the only person in Denmark who right now thinks that SKAT has too many employees and that it is not a question of employees. But it is. There was one person who paid a dividend tax to fraudsters for more than 12 billion. kr. So, yes, it's also a matter of employees. Perhaps at some point in the future it will be much fewer again, and it may even be that we will have an IT system that works, and we will have to take that at that time. But right now, it's about more employees. And if sir... Joachim B. Olsen will give his support to our motion for a resolution because it hits an extra 980, so I am sure that my colleagues and I will correct our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154048	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154050	It's a friendly offer, but I'm gonna have to turn it down. Then I have to say to that with ideological opposition to public servants that I have no ideological opposition to public servants. I just haven't. I have a policy that deals with the fact that I would like to have a smaller public sector, because I think that fewer resources should be spent in the public sector so that citizens can retain those resources. But it is not an expression that I am of the opinion that I think Enhedslisten and SF are here, i.e. where SF says it's just about more employees, and then everything is solved well. I am not of the opinion that everything just gets better with fewer employees. It is about competences, and it can be said that the scandal about dividend tax was about some other things. If there had been more employees and things were done in the same way, then even more dividends would have been paid out. So it hadn't just been solved with more employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154154	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154157	I fully agree that the number of employees means something, but just like the profit tax scandal, I actually think it would have been more expensive if you had had more employees. After all, nothing was checked, there was no follow-up to development, and there was no supervision by the Treasury. So right in that field I think it would actually have been more expensive if we had had more employees, but otherwise I completely agree that the number of employees matters. I want to ask the Liberal Alliance something. They say that they support the motion for a resolution and that they will call for negotiations, and I am pleased about that, and I welcome that, but do they also agree that there is a need for more staff in the field of action? I think that the Liberal Alliance must be able to support me in saying that this could distort competition, for example. excise duty if an undertaking pays its tax while a competing undertaking does not. One may well have a view that excise duties are too high, as I certainly think the Liberal Alliance seems, but when companies do not pay their excise duties on, for example, the United Kingdom. Candy or soda, that's a serious distortion of competition. Therefore, my question is simply silent, whether the Liberal Alliance does not agree that in some of these areas there is indeed a need for a higher pressure of control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154254	We fully agree that there are some challenges in these areas. There is, however, one thing I would like to say in the whole debate on the SKAT. Now we are running a lot on the totally unacceptable scandals that have been, but I think we should also be careful in here sometimes that we do not get a picture of the SKAT as if it is an organisation where nothing works. When comparing SKAT with similar organisations in other countries, with which we usually compare ourselves, we have, in a large number of areas, in most areas, a very well-functioning tax system. I think that taxes are too high and I think that our tax system is too complicated, but I also think that we should be careful not to talk the SKAT down. There are some specific scandals that we need to study and learn from, but if we keep talking SKAT down, I think we can end up in a situation where, if the right thing is to hire 1,000 more, it can be difficult in itself, because who wants to work in an organisation that we keep talking down? I think we should think about that. It may well be that more are needed in the areas of intervention, but I reserve the right to listen to the professional input and to ensure that we retain flexibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154408	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154410	It's nice to have a long answer that you shouldn't talk SKAT down when the question wasn't about it at all. But thank you for that view, it was very rewarding. The question was just quiet, whether it was agreed that more staff are needed in the field of action precisely in order to achieve equal competition. Of course, it is also to reduce the tax gap, because we can reduce the tax gap by 25 billion. kr., there is a room for manoeuvre that you can use, possibly in relation to the top tax that the Liberal Alliance wants, while we do not want it, but it could also be other excise duties, and it could be increased welfare. There could be both better guidance, simpler rules, as the Minister of Taxation has said, but also a control pressure so that it can be felt that you come after those who cheat. I think that this must also be a view that the Liberal Alliance can use, even if you do not want a larger public sector, but when it becomes a distortion of competition, there must be a good trick in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154455	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154457	After all, we fully agree that the problems in the field of action need to be resolved, and it may well be that it has to be with more staff, it may well be, but there are also other ways of solving the problems. You almost dare not talk about digital solutions and so on, but that is probably part of the future, and hopefully there will also be some who work, and then it can also be part of what needs to be done in the field of action. So there are many handles you can take hold of, in addition to hiring more, and it may also be the right thing to do, that is to say to hire more, and of course we need to have a discussion about that. I just oppose more employees as the only thing, because the only thing I hear in the debate is more employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154544	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154548	I just want to say right away that I agree with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen in that it is also about other things than more employees. There is also the development of digital solutions and guides and rules and all such things that can be adjusted, including some tightenings that I imagine the Liberal Alliance may not be in favour of. But, of course, there is. What we are talking about now, then, is just the need for some employees to actually be able to carry out some of the controls that you can typically see today far from working as they should. I think we might need a rather clearer answer from the Liberal Alliance to the effect that the tax gap is too high and that it should be reduced; that it is not satisfactory that we do not achieve our objectives as a tax authority in terms of reducing the tax gap; and that it is not acceptable for companies that want to compete to be good at doing business, that they have to fight with some who would rather compete to pay less in tax than they should.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154645	Well, there's no big disagreement. I actually believe that Mr. Jesper Petersen would have a similar approach to it if the roles were reversed. We are not debating these solutions now, that is not what we are doing. After all, we agree that the problems which Mr. Jesper Petersen here points out that problems need to be solved. This isn't about ideology. I don't mean to cheat on taxes. I do not think we should compete on tax evasion. I believe that taxes should be lower, here we may disagree, but I think they should be. However, what I understand from this debate is that we stand and, as we are now, have to decide that it is more employees who are the solution to the problems. I will not limit myself to that. There I would like to listen to what the professionals are saying, and there may well be other solutions, as Mr. Jesper Petersen himself points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154746	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154748	So the point was that you didn't have to limit yourself to that. But now I think it is necessary to make this quite clear at the end, because the Liberal Alliance is part of the government, and the Minister for Tax has said on behalf of the government that it would support the call for negotiations to strengthen the areas of intervention, specifically in the form of more staff. They are going to seize part of next year's Finance Act. That's what you add up to. And I think it is a rather more chilly and measured reception that the Liberal Alliance gives the same proposal. So I just wanted to be absolutely sure that the Liberal Alliance will vote for it, that there will be negotiations and that part of next year's Finance Act will be seized to do exactly what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is a little lukewarm about hiring more employees. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154833	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154835	I think that Mr. Jesper Petersen speaks up the differences here. I am trying to deal with the specific motion for a resolution which mentions a specific figure called 1,000 employees. I think that's weird. I can't say yes to that. I think that would be irresponsible, and it would not be scientifically sound to say that this is the solution. I think I made that clear in the previous question. I said that more employees can be part of the solution. Maybe it is, and that's what we're gonna do. But there are also other ways of solving the problems, and we must at least use them if possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154920	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. We need a new rapporteur, and that's Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519154931	We are having a very interesting tax debate today. We are having a debate on what, in my opinion, has been the dynamo and engine of our welfare society for many years, not the entrepreneurial engine or the commercial engine or the civilian entrepreneurial engine, but the engine in that way that everyone knows that there are equal opportunities in Denmark. We are at least aiming for that and the engine that makes it possible for those who have a lot to share with those who have suffered. Then we sit around sometimes discussing some paragraphs and some commas, and whether one proposal is a little bit better than the other, and whether a party color is a little different than another, and then we end up in some snags that finally end up in a billion scandal because you have broken something. In this case, in my view, it is a valuable friendship that has been between citizens and SKAT for very, very many years. What happens when you're out of friendship? Then it breaks down just as quietly, and some of the ways it can break down are if you start to miss the agreements you have, or you take it for granted, or you don't really know why it was that friendship arose and what it is that you get out of it and what it really is that is good for the other person in friendship. That's what we're seeing here. The resolutions tabled today, which we can all support in the alternative, are attempts to restore friendship or trust in the tax administration. I very much agree with Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, who just said you have to talk SKAT up. I am actually glad he said that it is actually a little rare for us to hear that speech from the Liberal Alliance on this point. Sometimes we get to have a slightly conflicting relationship between the Folketing and the SKAT, where there is a distance. It is like when we talk about the European Union. So we say down in the European Union. And sometimes we say, SKAT is about to understand. So, SKAT is something we define the framework for, and the European Community is something we have a lot of shares in being a part of and getting a lot out of. So it is interesting that we all agree today that there is a paradigm shift where we are just talking about that the investments we make in the SKAT are actually investments that are going to give us a profit either in terms of improved living conditions or new opportunities socially, and that it is not an expense to hire an employee in the SKAT. This is like the line I think we have drawn across this Chamber, and it is very pleasing. I would also like to say a few words about how we can get out of this crisis of confidence between our friend SKAT and the citizens. As far as I am concerned, it is at least a matter of lying flat on our backs or squatting and ready to help in this Parliament and facing up to the problems, just as I see that our tax minister has set in motion, with negotiations, with foresight and with openness. And it is across the Chamber that there is actually quite a lot of support for it. Where it sometimes becomes difficult for me to back up our sitting tax minister is when we look backwards. After all, it is also difficult for the current tax minister to do much more about the past than to try to correct the mistakes and shortcomings that have been made. That is why I think it is very important in relation to the proposals we are debating today and saying yes to supporting the ambitions of the current tax minister to move forward as a united Parliament, as a national team, and that we stop the gang wars between different party colours and then stand together to enter into the negotiations and provide some sensible solutions so that we can have a strong tax administration in the future. When it is in place, we must also look at how we as a population can then believe that it is actually going to happen. That is precisely what happens if we learn from the past, and there is something very pleasing to say. We came to parliament in 2015, when some had long fought a battle to clear up what misunderstandings and scandals have been in the SKAT, through a pervasive excavation of SKAT and the political decisions that have been made and the consulting houses that have helped to the best of their ability, and the officials who have done what they were ordered from the political side. Perhaps it is a management task that has sometimes been complicated by the fact that it was difficult to reach out and say that there was therefore a problem here because you had a political ambition for something or other. We are faced with a huge, huge task of trust, which is about restoring trust between SKAT and citizens, and in between we are therefore as politicians. It's not us who have to take all the responsibility, but there's something in this Trinity of citizens, SKAT and politicians who are then supplemented by the media, so that there are actually four players. And there may be more if there are people who want to come up with more. But I would like to say something in accordance with the best new political culture of the Alternative, where we should remember to behave and listen more and look at the positions of the others and put ourselves in each other's place, while at the same time marking it when there is a mistake or a deficiency or something that is simply a falsehood. There I would like to point out that it is not true, therefore, when there are several parties that have said in the last few days that they have not changed their attitude as to whether or not we should bury the SKAT. At least I've been both tone-deaf and blind. Because I have had a great deal of opposition to the fact that we should have a Commission study in SKAT from all but very, very few parties. I have experienced, however, that there was a peace of mind when we came in here, where we did not want to learn more about what had happened in the SKAT, where I saw that Enhedslisten and SF had fought, I think, even before we came in, and at least from the time we came in, to learn more about what had happened in the SKAT. We do not want to be here, but because we have a culture where the media have not been used to, that there is a zero error policy among the political parties and in the government, where we attack every mistake that comes and make it much, much bigger and therefore make it impossible and non-portunted for a sitting minister or an official to raise his hand and say that here we have a problem, it has to be solved, without absolutely also having the solution on standing foot, yes, then we have problems where we do not dare from political teams to be looked over the shoulder and have a Commission study where there is going to be a political responsibility, where there is a judge at the head, where we are going to be wiser, where we are going to move forward, not just by sitting and negotiating our own salary and pension home, or sitting and negotiating together who is going to look over the shoulders, or whether it is going to be the element we are going to be looking at, because it is best for our party, and should we not be able to get away from it when we are going to get to get down to a flatway, and whether we are going on the ground, and we are going to have a lot of confidence, and we are going to have a lot, and we are going to have to have to have to have to have to have a lot, and we are going to have to have to have to have to have to have to have a lot, and we are going to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have a lot, and to have to have a lot, and to have a lot, and to have to have a lot, and to have to have So citizens who are watching and the media: It is 2 years since I entered politics, and the alternative is quite new in here, we want to create many changes, but it is difficult to create these changes, if you do not help the government and parliament politicians to exhibit the mistakes we make, if you do not help create a culture in the SKAT and in all sorts of other public institutions where we clap when something goes well and when something goes bad when there are some who dare to show the flag, then we find out how to solve it together. Otherwise, we are talking the SKAT down, and we are also talking the politicians down, and there is no reason for that. But come on, how am I gonna do that, and I think my colleagues in here would like to point our finger at ourselves far along the way when there's something we're getting smarter about. In fact, I think that right now there are some ministers who have been sitting in the tax area who are doing the right thing, very well in terms of looking inward, in terms of pointing out their own mistakes, pointing out all the things that have gone wrong, things that we could have imagined a year and a half ago, and things that I can say with reasonable certainty that this is only now because we have been forced to do so. So let's create a culture together where you don't have to pull the truth out of the politicians, because I actually think that the vast majority of you, yes, I would actually go so far as to say that we are all here to do it much, much better for Denmark, and that we would like to tell the truth all the time, but if it is up-to-date and the media would actually rather have a different version, because they don't bother that boring truth once in a while, because it is simply too conflictless, it will be very, very difficult to demand of people who are going to seize power, so that they can lead the country for the democratic values that the voters have voted for, then it will be very, very difficult to be a politician in here and go after that power and maintain it and live up to life, if you constantly get the hard decisions. So once we have restored confidence, we can also make agreements that go beyond the colours of the government, and we can make agreements that extend over a four-year period, and then perhaps trust is suddenly restored so little. And there is an independent tax commission with a judge at the table end an important first step. We therefore support the three motions for resolutions as they go on in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519155829	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519155837	Thank you. The Radical Left is pleased that a number of parties have put forward proposals to restore the SKAT in various ways. It is important that we restore confidence in SKAT and the entire welfare society by some who cannot just escape paying their share to the community just because SKAT doesn't just work. Trust in SKAT and an effective tax organization are simply a prerequisite for our welfare societies. Revenue is the prerequisite for us to be able to make expenditure. Radical Left has participated in two agreements with the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. With one of the agreements, we are now hiring more people in SKAT and dropping the reviled and non-dual EFI system, and with the other agreement we are making new and better property assessments and hiring more people as well. We are ready to make agreements on further investments in SKAT, and we also sense that today's debate has clearly led to that. Precisely to call it investment is important, because it is both an investment in trust in our welfare society and an investment that will also mean more money coming in because people cannot cheat and evade taxes. It seems that there is a clear majority who would like to negotiate with the government to do more. We therefore call on the government to call for negotiations. Radical Left will be happy to show up and take responsibility. For us, it is crucial that we find concrete efforts and actions that are necessary and sensible. For us, it is not an end in itself that there will be more employees. We think it would be crazy to commit to exactly 1,000 employees if it turns out that instead there is a need for 1,200 or 500. It must be based on concrete decisions on interventions. The proposers state that it will be free of charge to hire more. I guess we just don't think the world is that simple. For there will probably be a need for funding at least at the beginning. The Radical Left is also ready to discuss funding opportunities with the many who have today indicated that it is a good idea that we are doing a little more for SKAT and confidence in SKAT and our welfare society as a whole. So in these words, we will await the committee and the discussions with the other parties and the government before taking any further action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519160154	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. No, it's gotta be sir. Anders Johansson or is it Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen? Yes, if it is in the series of speakers as rapporteur, it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519160226	Thank you. Yeah, we're gonna have to follow the formalities. Rune Lund's name is first on our motion for a resolution, so he comes up as a draftsman and talks a little more about it. I think we have been talking about several good things today, and it also seems that there is a desire and willingness to spend more resources on SKAT, at least when we talk about things. However, with regard to the content of one of the motions for resolutions tabled by the Enhedslisten and the SF, namely to cancel the planned savings, I think there is a strange reluctance to say: of course we do. It is strange, because it is not a very clear signal to send to the Danes that we are now seriously going to return to SKAT that, as Mr. Rune Lund says, with one hand giving some money and with the other hand taking some money, continues with some planned savings. That doesn't make any sense. If we do not do something about the planned savings, there will be 600 million. kr. less to SKAT in 2020 than in 2017, and savings for 1.3 billion will be accumulated. kr. In other words, it really is a strange signal to send to a people who quite rightly expect that we are now using the resources and resources needed to restore the SKAT. Then there is the second proposal that we have put forward that there should be an extra 1.000 employees in the SKAT. Then there are some who are very sensitive to that number and say: Why not 1,100? Yeah, we can do that. Why not 980? Yeah, we can do that, too. But the point here is that we need far more people than there are today. We are discussing very negative VAT, and the full extent is not yet clear to us, but the accountants have so much raised the red flag and said: you simply have to keep an eye on this area, because the increases are enormous. And how many percent of payments to negative VAT are checked? 2%! It is a negative VAT, which accounts for a three-digit billion amount, and where we can see that the trend is just going crazy. The Treasury says there's no need to worry, but that development looks very strange. In any case, nobody should come and tell me that if we politically agreed that money should be spent on employing 1,000 more people in the SKAT, we could not get that percentage up, so that something more negative VAT was checked. We could also take action against the rich foreign dancers who are hiding with the debts they have for SKAT at home. Of course, there are a lot of areas where we could use these numbers. Then the Social Democrats and DF have tabled a motion for a resolution that we should be invited to the tax minister to discuss more resources, etc. I hear from the Social Democrats and the DF that it is actually a little the same as we are proposing, but I am therefore nervous. And if I can get these gentlemen's attention for a moment, I would say that the tax minister says so, and he says so literally and to quote in several places today: we can do that, but we do that under the auspices of financial law negotiations; we have always done that; we are taking those discussions there. Maybe that's very good for sir. Dennis Flydtkjær from DF, for they will probably end up making finance laws in any case, but that's where I'm just asking Mr. Jesper Petersen of Social Democracy: Have you thought through what this means? Because if we are going to use that forum over there and I am sure that this is based on a real will to do something more good for SKAT, it has to be said and it has to be under the auspices of financial law negotiations, and let us say that then it is refugee children who have to contribute to funding, or that we have to take some money from dyslexic children or old children or something that the government can come up with by creative things, to fund this area, then we are standing there and saying: "Ah, that's a little difficult. Therefore, I just point out again that if the Social Democracy and DF voted in favour of the Enhedslisten and SF's proposal, we would certainly have 1.000 more, and we would certainly cancel the savings. But having said that, and I am genuinely concerned about what it might end up with, it is of course nice to know that the Social Democracy and DF also want us to do more for SKAT. That is why, of course, we are also voting in favour of the resolution. But I would just like to get security from the tax minister that he won't use this for something like Christiansborgfnidderfnader, and then you set up some funding or some rules and requirements so you can just get some of the troublesome parties shipped out. I hope not. In general terms, I do have a good impression of the tax minister. I think he's doing a good job. That's what I'm saying, almost every time I stand on the platform and discussing SKAT not that we agree on everything, but this is a big job. That is why I should like to conclude by saying 'and, unfortunately, he is not here in the Chamber now, Mr President. Joachim B. Olsen, yes, he is there, because I would so like him to hear what I am saying that I agree in part with Mr B. Olsen. Joachim B. Olsen in that we also have to be careful how we talk about SKAT so we don't talk SKAT under the floorboards. Therefore, I think we should be very precise in our criticism of each other when we think politically that there are not enough resources for the area, or in the criticism that we have to do more here, but not the whole criticism of the employees out there, because we need more than ever to maintain them and attract new employees who want to work in this area. So that is the way I agree. That is why I would just like to appeal to us to put aside what was very much under the auspices of the S-SF-RV government, where tax workers were accused of using bickering methods, bullying methods, Stasi methods, that it was a state in the state that there was a sick culture and that it was not worthy of a democratic judicial society. For that is certainly not something that attracts talented people to work in SKAT or the Treasury. It was not to end negatively, because I will end on an optimistic note, because I have learned that you should, because then people are happier from here, but it has also been said that people have said: I am not going to work here anymore, it is a huge job, and that we are under pressure on the economy, so I also need to know that I am using Stasi methods. I think that has also had an effect, that is to say that for so many years we have been talking so ugly about those who worked in the SKAT. At that time the problem for some politicians was not that the SKAT did not do their work well enough; on the contrary, the criticism was that the SKAT was too obscene, the SKAT was too coarse and went too close. Well, it's in the past, I hope, because I actually think we're approaching a really good place where we agree that we're going to go back to SKAT. We will have a longer discussion about the Tax Commission, and what I am saying here is not that we should say that there is then no more to discuss, because the people have a legitimate right to know what went so wrong. However, we are at least agreed by the SF to vote in favour of all improvements and support the tax minister in the work of a Left Secretary relatively nicely done by the Minister. Then I just hope that together we can find enough funds and resources to restore SKAT, because that is what is most important, democratically speaking, and then it is quite a different debate whether the tax should be high or low. But we need a tax administration that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161119	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161124	Thank you. And thank you for the presentation, if you can put it that way. We share the desire to get SKAT on course. Last year the SF had a motion for a resolution that there were 1,000 extra employees for SKAT, and it has to be said that a lot of things happened during that period, and there were really big problems in SKAT, and that is why the Minister of Taxation had it analysed very carefully and then arrived at a historically large investment plan for SKAT of 7 billion. kr. and with the addition of 1,000 additional employees. Now SF 1,000 additional employees are looking for SKAT. Now, if we're playing with the idea that there were 1,000 extra employees, I'd like to know if you'd like to propose 1,000 extra employees again next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161204	Well, as the rapporteur of the Left so well illustrates, it is so that when SF wants 1,000 employees for SKAT, there will be 1,000 employees for SKAT, so it may well be that it has to be an annual recurring event. No, of course we have to take this seriously. Last year we said that more employees were needed for SKAT, and then we set the number to 1,000, but it could also have been 900 or 1,100. Therefore, I also find it strange that today Enhedslisten and SF are being criticised for saying that we need 1,000 employees for SKAT when 1,000 employees for SKAT were what the tax minister found was a fine number. What has also happened in the meantime, of course, is that, unfortunately, in the last year, there have been even more cases in the field of taxation. I hope it's over now, but from both SF and Enhedslisten's side, this is also a floor, so it's a minimum of what we think it takes to return SKAT, at least in the medium term. Then it may be that in a very, very long time SKAT will be so well functioning that it can be done with fewer employees I won't be able to say that but it's a minimum in this situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161318	That's very interesting, because it sounds like SKAT is going to be infinitely large. Is there any limit to the size of the SKAT? Does SF think that at some point there will be so many employees that it can actually be a problem with so many employees? Is there some point where it has achieved an optimal number for SKAT, or does SF think that it should increase indefinitely if you can just increase the number each year without having the analyses ready? For the difference was that the tax minister had an apparatus to investigate how we get a structure on the SKAT he has not finally got it in place yet, so it is also impressive that it is just as well known that it is 1,000 control officers who are missing when the minister has not yet presented the new structure to the SKAT. This seems a little out of order, so you just offer it every time without knowing exactly why it has to be that number.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161402	Much more people have been fired in the SKAT than what has been added, including in our proposal, so if you have to increase the number from before the firing rounds started, there is still a long way to go. There are a lot of areas where we in the SF at least think there is far too little control. I am afraid that negative VAT is some of the things that lie ahead and will explode in relation to the increases we can see now, and there is control of 2%, so that is one of the areas that is at stake. But if you were up to having 20,000 people employed in SKAT, it might be that you couldn't find office spaces or assignments for the rest, but that's not where we are. We are far below the number that was in the SKAT once, and the problems are so much bigger, at least here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161455	Then it's mr. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161458	The SF's rapporteur said in his speech that one could just say yes to the proposal for 1,000 new employees, because then one was sure that they would come. But you are not, because based on the methods of calculation used today and I think you should look at that because there is a certain amount of self-financing there is no funding for this proposal. Then you're not sure about the 1,000 employees. And that brings me to ask, when SF asks for answers, if this will just be a finance agreement with DF: Yes, it will, if SF doesn't want to help find any funding. Because it costs something, and we in the Danish People's Party are willing to find that money. But I just want to know if SF is involved in making an agreement where you also have to find some funding yourself. Because if you dream that you can just make a partial deal that SF is part of, and then Dansk Folkeparti must find the money in a Finance Act, where there will certainly be unpopular things, then it is a no go because then you might as well take credit for it yourself. I would like a broad agreement to be reached in the Folketing, where we find more resources for the area, but that also requires other parties to help find the money for it. And that's where I'm gonna ask SF if they're in on it based on the methods we're using today. It is good that there will be a study of whether it can be done in another way, but with the calculation methods we have today, will the SF help to find the money it costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161558	Well, we would also like to find other sources of funding. It is not certain that we can agree there, but there we have an entire catalogue. This is not necessarily something that the bourgeois parties will support. But what we want, and what I actually hear, Mr. President. Dennis Flydtkjær would like us to actually use this opportunity to say: Yes, you can earn your salary several times • not infinity, not when number 20,000 is employed, but here and now we can see in a number of areas that it is 38 times, it is 70 times. Those are figures from the Treasury Department. So we would actually like to put it that way, perhaps like if the Liberal Alliance demands the top tax removed or set down, where they then use some elasticity that we think is strange and where it almost becomes self-financing. But there must also be room to make those commandments. So that is actually why we have not actually presented any alternative funding from SF and Enhedslisten, so simply to stress the point that these people earn their wages many, many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161715	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161717	I have already said that there is a great deal of agreement that there is, of course, self-financing which is not included in it today. But we also have to accept that we all count on the same method of calculation, and before we change the method of calculation, it is as it is today, and therefore it costs funding in the autumn. I don't believe that we're gonna be able to change this method of calculation before we have to look at this in autumn's budget negotiations. That is why we are going to have to find some funding, and perhaps also something that will enable us to get some knowledge collection. And there is just my wish that we in the Danish Parliament should accept that there are some methods of calculation now that we would like to challenge, but before we do that, we have to spend what we have and that costs some money. So if we're gonna do this exercise that we want to do in terms of adding some resources to the SKAT, we're also gonna have to stand together about the funding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161801	There's this weird concept of reserves in the Finance Act. Sometimes people ask: You say there's no money, and then all of a sudden you had to find some money, and then you took it in the reserve. But this extra account is in the Finance Act, and there's money for it. After all, the government has dropped money on it in order to spend it on things that were supposed to happen on a regular basis. It could be some tricks about tax relief or whatever it could be. But it could also be taken from here, and there's enough money as it is right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161842	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519161846	I think it was a bit too bad that the SF's rapporteur just struck it off when we spent a lot of time in the Folketing on some of the legal security problems that were in the SKAT. It was problematic that there were many cases where citizens and companies were treated badly, and it is then used as an excuse for the SF's tax minister to have no time at all to concentrate on anything else. I think that is a shift of responsibility in another world. I would say that the consultations we held under the Red Government with three SF tax ministers on recovery, arrears and EFI are innumerable. We spent a lot of time on this, but the answers we received were clear: it would be quite irresponsible to spend more money, because everything got better when the EFI came, and then everything was good, and there was no reason why we were so worried. Then we shall now stand and hear the SF again promise more employees. It is simply to return to before 2011, for then the Social Democracy and the SF jointly promised, I think it was 900 extra employees in the SKAT. A Fair Solution was what became a red government tax policy, no more and no less. It was in September 2011 that elections were held. In January 2012, SF's tax minister says that less money needs to be spent, no more people need to be employed, fewer employees in SKAT. What made SF promise more employees in SKAT in September 2011 but then in January 2012 to announce that there should be fewer?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162021	I'm sure Mr. Knox wouldn't mind. Torsten Schack Pedersen knows what happened in connection with the government constellation. I actually understand that sir... Torsten Schack Pedersen feels a little affected or speaks, for he is the author of many of these quotes, which really accuse tax workers of some pretty wild things. But to get back to it, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen asked, I would say that it is true that there was also focus on recovery and on EFI, but there was an extremely high focus on legal certainty, and that is also fine, and that must also be given priority. The problem was that it took all that I say, while I also say that we take full responsibility for what happened during the government period. We were the first government party to say that we should have a commission of inquiry. The Left is also doing so now because they are forced to do so by a majority, and it is just to say that when we are talking about how we should talk about the SKAT, it was an example of how things went too far then, in relation to how they referred to the employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162143	I think it could be liberating if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would use the right quotes, because there is really much of what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen stands and claims I have said, as I have never said. But it's giving itself up. I just don't get an answer to the key: how can you go to the polls about wanting to hire 900 employees and then four months later to fire employees? Some areas within SKAT will experience getting more employees, while others will get fewer, but overall it is our assessment that by making things smarter we can save more than 1,000 years of work in the overall organisation until 2016, it was said. However, it is a huge recognition that hits the SF when you get in the back seat of a ministerial car. The promises you made to the Danes before 2011, you completely ran away, and now you stand up and say that you can do it again. You wouldn't even bother to finance it, because you've found such a hocuspocus formula, where it probably goes straight up where it might find itself and something like that. That premise just doesn't buy anyone else. So what should be done about the credibility of the message that the SF has today? We've heard it before. When you got the power, you did the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162255	I told you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen was the author of several of the things I quoted, and so is he, unless there are journalists who have written wrong things in the media. What happened was that the Social Democrats and the SF went to the polls in a joint election document, and it became a government constellation with the Radicals as well. That's what Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen actually says: How can one say that one wants some of that and that when one is part of a government that looks different? A great deal of time could also be spent on this with this new VLAK government, because there have been numerous compromises made by the Left. That's the way it is. But I think we should deal with the situation that is now, and I actually tried to end with a slightly hugging approach and say that I think everyone would like to do something for SKAT now in order to return SKAT. It is not only a problem for SKAT; it is not only an economic problem; it is also a democratic problem, because it is not just a question of restoring people's confidence in SKAT; it is also a question of restoring people's confidence in us. So it was actually a way of saying that we can do some of these things together, and I still believe it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162417	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, and welcome to Mr Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162427	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising the debate. This is an important and highly topical debate. It has actually been a pleasure to follow the debate, because I think that as the debate has progressed, it has been shown that a great many people in this House agree with the objective. On the conservative side, at least we agree with the intentions of all three motions for resolutions far along the way. Enhedslisten and SF want the government to present a plan to employ 1,000 additional annual work to control SKAT and to cancel all planned savings in SKAT from 2018 onwards. That sounds easy: employ some more and get more tax revenue. On our part, we have absolutely no interest in not hiring any more, if that makes sense, on the contrary. Unfortunately, I don't think it's that simple in real life. On the conservative side, we agree that there is a need to strengthen the tax administration. This was precisely why a broad agreement was reached in the Folketing to invest 7 billion. kr. in a new and stronger tax administration. In other words, we are also open to investing even more resources in SKAT if needed. However, those resources must also be financed before a final decision is taken. Then there is the whole question of whether to cancel the planned savings proposed in B 104. We heard the Minister earlier explain that the savings referred to are the expression of a number of temporary appropriations for concrete efforts on the Finance Act, which expires. I mentioned earlier that we on the conservative side are open to investing more resources in SKAT, but those resources must also be provided. That is why we think that the resolution by the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party is very sensible, because the purpose of this proposal is for the government to call for a discussion with a view to adding resources to the SKAT so that control efforts can be increased. There are a great many ways in which we can improve the framework for proper tax payment, and therefore investments in SKAT must also be considered. Recently we dealt with a matter in this Chamber which was aimed at simplifying the rules on arrears, wage retention, interest rates and so on. We believe from the conservative side that simplifying the entire tax legislation is a very sensible and effective way to go, so that we ensure fewer errors and therefore less need for post-control and easier control at all. Having said that, we must of course also have a readiness to pick up on errors and cheating, and that is why we also support the motion for a resolution No. B 99, that is, that we are taking a debate on how we can gradually strengthen control. However, we cannot support the other two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162714	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. There are no brief comments. So we now turn to the rapporteurs of the authors of the motion for a resolution, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Rune Lund and Mr. Jesper Petersen in that order one at a time. I have seen, however, that some parties' congresses have practiced dental papers which take turns saying a sentence. But we don't do that here in the Folketing. Welcome to sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519162751	We only do that at Enhedslisten's annual meeting. We are discussing three proposals today. There is a proposal that we from Enhedslisten have made together with SF to cancel all planned savings in SKAT. We can see, of course, when we look at the figures, and also from the table inserted in the resolution on our part, that SKAT's funding will fall towards 2020. Overall, there will be a saving of 1.3 billion. kr., and the budget will be approx. 600 million kr. less in 2020 than it is in 2017. Even if we count all reserves and they are used and implemented all together, there will still be a budget in the whole area of the tax administration, which will be approx. 600 million kr. less than it is in 2017. So we have a serious problem when we say that we want to strengthen the tax administration and at the same time have a lot of already planned savings that lie ahead and threaten the recovery of the SKAT. I have to admit that I think it is a little difficult when we all agree that we should strengthen the SKAT, that then we cannot just agree that we should put a plug in relation to the devastating savings that we have seen over 10 years and which have saved SKAT to pieces. I simply think that we should be able to agree now that the thing about saving the SKAT and the thing about pouring savings over the SKAT is something that should have been stopped a long time ago. We haven't quite gotten there yet. Things are moving in the right direction at the moment, that is clear. But it is also clear that there are still limits to be moved in this debate and in the political positions before we have a proper basis to discuss a real recovery of the SKAT. Then we have put forward a proposal from the Enhedslisten and the SF to add 1,000 additional annual work to the control. This follows on from the fact that today we have approx. 7,000 employees in the IRS. With the plan presented in autumn 2016 to add a net 1.000 extra employees, we will reach approx. Eight thousand employees in the IRS. However, the recovery plan from autumn 2016 does not exactly include additional staff for control purposes. And that is the debate that is essential to take now, especially when we look at some of the control areas where SKAT controls how much money each employee gets pulled home to the Treasury. It is, of course, a discussion that we have had, especially in the last year, that is to say how many times an employee in SKAT can earn his own salary home. It started with that we had a very technical review in the Tax Committee on what kind of IT systems SKAT has and what kind of information we can pull out • can we pull out information completely on each employee? It was clear that SKAT has a wide range of data, which can be used to make some very precise business cases • as we also see that you work with businesscases elsewhere in society, for example. In the municipalities, where you look at whether you can hire two employees and prevent social fraud, or if you can hire an extra employee at the job center, you have a wage cost there of perhaps 0.5 million. kr., but then you might be able to save a little on dependency costs, because it might help some more people get to work. The way to think a business case is completely integrated into the way municipalities do their financial management and budgeting, and I am puzzled that the way to think the economy is not long ago incorporated into the way the state and SKAT think their financial management. If we had done this a long time ago, if there had been the sensible, practical approach to financial management as there is in the municipalities, then we would not have ended up with the big problem we have today in SKAT, where SKAT has been saved to pieces and destroyed by savings. I think it is very, very encouraging when we hear the debate today. That is also where I really think the tax minister should listen, and I also hope that those over in the Ministry of Finance, which are 50 metres away, are listening for what kind of political signal comes from a majority here in Parliament. We want another way of calculating this. It is clear that this is what a majority in the Folketing wants. We want a tax officer who pulls millions of kroner home every year not only to be seen as an expense, as happens when the Ministry of Finance calculates. We want revenue and expenditure to be considered together. I am very positive and glad that it is an attitude which has now materialised here in the Folketing, and I think it is very positive. I really think that is a step forward. In relation to B 99, which is the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party that we should meet and negotiate more resources for the effort: It supports the Enhedslisten, of course, because then we can have the detailed discussion on how exactly we do it. It is very good that this proposal has been put forward and can be adopted so that we can have discussions with the tax minister. I mean in this context, when we see that employees earn their wages as many times as they do, that business case financing must also be something we can get on the table right now. Well, we're talking May, and a Finance Act is due in November. In fact, we have six months to fight for new calculation methods to be used when we talk about the Finance Act. When you look at negative VAT, where it is of course very worrying that the payments of negative VAT have increased by 68 per cent. from 139 billion. kr. in 2009 to 235 billion. kr. In 2015, you can see that only 2%. payments have been checked. The 60 employees sitting in the area are shoveling money. They go to work every day and order nothing but to stop wrong payments and, in the period from January to September, have on average each stopped wrong payments for 42.2 million. kr., and an annual work price is a DKK 500,000-600,000, depending on what an employee we're talking about. It's really a business case that bats. Since we can use this method of calculating in all sorts of other places, we should also be able to do so in the context of a financial law debate. Compared to the 1,000 extra employees, it is true that we were parties that said in spring 2016 that we should have 1,000 more employees in SKAT. We added the minimum, because we think that the need is greater. It was shot down from several places, because it was unrealistic and it was overbidden policy. That was one of the criticisms we met. Then it takes a little six months, and then there is a plan, the SKAT out of the crisis, a recovery plan for SKAT, where 1,000 additional employees are added. That's a good thing. But that is also where control efforts have not been taken into account. That is also why we need to look at how we can hire more people there. For Enhedslisten, it is of course crucial that you do not just come up with a number. However, from the discussions we have with the professional organisations, 1.000 extras compared to what is in theskat out of the crisis seem like a sensible floor when we listen to how things are going around in the SKAT. So we have 7,000 employees today in the entire IRS. It will be 8,000 by 2020 with the recovery plan for the SKAT, the SKAT out of the crisis. If there is an extra 1000 in relation to control, it will be 9 000 by 2020, and we would really like to see it go further than that. We would like that figure to reach 10,000 as a management target, including additional employees for recovery and for many of the other functions needed in the SKAT. We can also see that, for example, there is a difference between the two. are many of the employees who are currently in SKAT who retire within a shorter period of time, and there is a need for some sort of transference of the experience there is and there is a need for overlap. We are in a situation where we need a little extra air and a buffer, also to introduce new IT systems and many things. So a control target of 10,000 is on the Enhedslisten's side as such optimal. It is clear, then, that you always have to assess whether you have the right number of employees in relation to the digital tools you have and in relation to the tasks to be solved, in relation to the extent to which companies comply with the tax law or citizens comply with the tax law, and again in relation to how much you should be after companies or citizens or how much you should not be. After all, it is an ongoing discussion and an ongoing assessment of how resources are to be prioritised and how resources should be. But I think one can safely say that right now the problem in the SKAT is not that there are too many employees. Right now, the problem is that there are too few employees. However, I would just like to say that I think the debate has been very positive and that today is the day when it will be established in this Chamber that there is a majority who wants a different way of calculating than what has been the reality so far. And it's really more progress than we had to agree on 900 or 1,000 or 1,500 or 1,700 employees extra for SKAT. For the right way of calculating, in terms of how it pays to hire people in the SKAT, the foundation is that we can have a sensible talk about what it takes to restore the SKAT properly and get the SKAT right out of the crisis • is turning the development so that what has happened over the past many years is not happening, namely that the SKAT is destroyed and saved to pieces, but that we simply get invested in a strong and effective SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519163846	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments. The second rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution is Mr Seligman. Jesper Petersen of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519163855	I also think that in order to continue the positive tone of Mr. Rune Lund says it is gratifying that there is a majority in favour of the proposal to add more resources to the areas of action in the SKAT, which we have worked for too long. The proposals we have discussed all revolve around the same thing, namely that there are major problems in the tax administration. There has been history, and this is now being examined in the form of a commission of inquiry, and we will soon be discussing how it should be precisely knitted together. But in addition to learning from the mistakes that have been made there and examining the failed course that has been for the tax administration, we also have some problems to correct now. So there have been a number of scandals and problems. We are aware of the profit and of the fact that the tax debt has approached the 100 billion. kr. There have been a series of critical reports from the National Audit Office and comments from the State Auditors, which therefore give serious criticism of, for example, the VAT controls and a large number of other areas of taxation which are not functioning adequately in these areas of action that we are discussing today. In addition to what may be a loss in these isolated and highly highlighted cases, there are, after all, every year in the region of 25 billion. In other words, a tax gap of about 25 billion is lost. kr., slightly cautiously estimated. A very lax control has been highlighted in the area of VAT, where it is only 2-3 per cent. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and their trailers has not yet been adopted. But in addition to these very large amounts of money that we lose in tax revenue and therefore cannot spend on our common welfare society, there is something more fundamental at stake: the question of trust in both the tax administration, but also that we have a social model, a tax-financed welfare society that works fairly and can be linked; that there is respect for the basic social contract, where we believe that we have to pay the tax we have to pay, no more or less, but that it is therefore necessary for things to work; and that when we pay ourselves, we can count on the tax administration to ensure that others do so, just as companies can expect that when they pay what they have to, SKAT will help them that there is fair competition in the market in which they are now operating. This is absolutely fundamental and crucial for our society. In the autumn, this investment plan was then negotiated, which is also highlighted in the debate, among other things. from the Left, and I think that is for good reason. It is really, really important that the problems of recovery are addressed, about the new property assessment system. We also have some costs for a new Customs Code at EU level. Of course, you have to do that. That is why we are also in that agreement. What was the frustration on top of it was that where we actually expected it to be the opportunity for us to tackle the problems with the areas of intervention, the door was completely closed when we first started the negotiations. Now there is a majority. The Left, the Conservatives and the Liberal Alliance have changed course since the rejection we met in the autumn, and we have also succeeded in this week on top of the question debate we had last year on Panama papers and the whole problem of tax havens to address, in addition to implementing some other measures that we think are important, to crack down on international tax evasion. We have come up with a proposal for four new, powerful tax centres located outside the largest cities and to hire 1,000 more to strengthen these areas of activity in a targeted manner. It's about control, but the game is also about how more education is needed, an increased focus on the professionalism of SKAT, that you can use the auditors to deal with some of the problems, and that you also need to strengthen the guidance and other things. This is all to increase and restore confidence and increase tax revenues. And that we, together with the Danish People's Party, have been able to make this resolution, which now represents a majority, I think has been very, very good, and it is something that will end up creating a concrete change and some negotiations that must start. We have proposed to finance it by means of the scope now, and this will clearly increase revenue. I have no doubt about that. But I don't want it to be said that the money isn't there. They are. There is money to make those investments now, and I have no doubt that it will subsequently turn out that there is a marked increase in revenue. We believe that tax revenue can be increased by approx. 50 billion. kr. in the years up to 2025, if you do the right things in the area of taxation. The conclusion of the debate is, of course, that, in addition to the focus and consensus on the problems of the SKAT, which I think is very important and has actually wanted for many years to be agreed, the government has read the terrain and avoid being in the minority by agreeing to the resolution. This must then be translated into concrete action, and we think that we should get started and get negotiations started now, so that the things we agree can be included in the 2018 Finance Act. The government is going to come up with a proposal at the end of August, and I know how this is going on. It is right now that the ministries are in the process of reporting on what costs they are expected to bear. The government is currently considering what should be in its proposal and what they will prioritize of cases. And before all the money is fired off on some of the tax cuts that you know they want to spend money on or whatever else they want, we have to make sure that the money is there to make the necessary improvements in the tax administration. So we just as well think we can get started right away and use some of the reserves and the room for manoeuvre that is in the Danish economy. A part of the discussion, which includes: Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær and since others were mentioned, this is about the tax gauntlet thing. This is not, of course, a specific part of the resolution. The motion for a resolution does not change that. Nevertheless, I think it is really important that it has been suggested that there is also a consensus that the lack of coherence that exists today between what is actually going on with the tax administration and what you have to make finance law with, you have to see a few. It is also part of understanding why it has gone as wrong as it is with the IRS. It has simply had too little a cost for those who had to budget and those who had to make finance law that it did not go as it should, with our tax administration. We firmly believe that it is possible to restore it if you have the right political will to do so. It will take time, I think, for us too to stop the people and each other. But with the grant and the right stitching, we can get to the end of it. We will propose that we put B 99, for which we can see there is a majority, to the vote and that we start the debate on it immediately, since there is now a clear majority in favour. This seems to me to be the conclusion of today's debate as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164632	But there is just one brief comment before we end, and that is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164638	Thank you. I heard Mr. Jesper Petersen in his comment to the tax minister at the beginning of this debate ask a little bit about what it means that it is under finance law etc. etc. That is also my concern: if there was a majority for, for example, a majority for. to cancel the savings here and now or hire 1,000 extra employees, well then we knew what we had to do with. Perhaps in the centre-left we could also find some funding that we thought was reasonable, a room for manoeuvre, reserves and so on. Of course, we are also voting in favour of your proposal to take a negotiating meeting with the tax minister. But I'm worried about what you're gonna tie up on. In other words, it may also be so unfair that one may unfortunately have to say no to an agreement to give SKAT more resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164744	What I have to understand from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is that there will be some funding measures that cannot be supported and that, therefore, we will say no to making improvements in the tax system. I think that's how I'm supposed to understand it. After all, we believe that there is room for manoeuvre and reserves, and that is because this is evident from the government's own figures. We believe that these figures can be used, but it must then be part of a debate on how to use them. As Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen knows, we'd like to hire these 1,000 extra employees. We think that we have done our homework and have identified some priority areas and that this will be the level that needs to be achieved. But even if we agree on that, there will not be a majority in favour of it. I think it has been important to find what could be the majority for, and in this way to get the government told that something should actually happen. Well, then we'll see how far we can get it in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164846	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164848	Well, I can understand that, too. But, you know, I also hear DF say that it's important to get some more employees in 1,000 so just the right number, or whatever it is, and also to cancel these savings, which are nevertheless accumulated to 1.3 billion. I am just worried about that, because I really think that we are some parties that could say: then we are spending some money from the room or the reserves. I really believe that we have such a common quantity in relation to what might be reasonable there. I'm just worried about what to say about what some of the bourgeois parties might think of funding proposals. Then I think it is more pure, so to speak, in the resolutions we have tabled. We fully agree with what the Social Democrats are proposing as funding, because then we know what we are dealing with. It's just to get like said that I have some concerns about what could get greasy into these negotiations. But, of course, we will be here and, of course, we will be voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519164957	The same majority that has today manifested itself in order to do something must then be used in the negotiations and ensure that there is actually a significant improvement in the areas of intervention. Today, when the tax minister almost knocks out his arms and says that, of course, more needs to be done in the areas of effort and he marks himself with it in the press and really promises people that something must happen, that is something we must make sure that he actually ends up delivering on. However, when I asked the questions to which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen refers, it is because last year we saw ourselves in a situation where there were financial law negotiations, which we were not part of, we were almost mocked for it and then we could not really move on. Now a majority has been created for action to be taken in the areas of intervention, and that is a new situation, and we must get the maximum out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165051	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165055	It is just that the Social Democratic Party will not support the proposal to cancel all the planned savings in the SKAT. After all, I have read the plan put forward by the Social Democratic Party to recruit more staff for control. It will be self-financing and, moreover, more because it will generate additional revenue for the Treasury. And I fully agree with the way things are viewed. But is it not true that if it is a good idea to add more funds, because it is a good business, then everything else must be the case that it is a bad business when you make savings? If that is the case, if we are to follow the logic, then the logical consequence of that should be that the Social Democrats vote in favour of the proposal to cancel all planned savings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165148	I think the right way to go about it is to say: what is it we need, what are some things we want to promise? And that, by the way, we are ready to use the funds for it. It will end up with SKAT's framework and SKAT's ability to carry out its tasks being quite different from today's, if you implement both the investment plan that has been agreed and thus add additional resources in the areas of action that we are proposing and which you can hear there is a majority for today. I think that's a better way to go about it, also because it's just so raw to say that we cancel all things. I also think that it might be the know unavoidably that, of course, we always do, and that is also true in the area of taxation, when we can make things smarter, more efficient, then we have to do it. I think that is simply important for taxpayers to know about us, that is to say that this is simply the way we basically go about managing their money. We can then see that the SKAT has been cut too deep and that if you add some resources, you would not just have to bear a cost now and here you would simply end up getting more money in by doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165300	Of course, SKAT must work effectively, just as all parts of the public sector must work effectively. But when we have a discussion that we want to add more resources to the SKAT, it doesn't make sense, like giving with one hand, but taking with the other hand. So, to me, we give the most peace of mind about the work of SKAT by simply plugging in a plug and saying that at least now there are no more savings and that now there is a floor. Because the problem is not that there are too many employees in the SKAT problem is that there are too few. From here we have laid a floor, a stable floor, and then we start to add more resources. Well, the thing about taking with one hand and giving with the other hand seems like I'm sending a little mixed signal. It would be clearly better if we said: no planned savings, they all have to be cancelled. And then we start the work of investing in SKAT.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165347	Yeah, but the effect ends up being the same. I mean, more resources have already been allocated. There is a lack of funding for that investment plan for some of the years, because the government was not ready for that yet, and the areas of action that we believe it is so crucial to strengthen in order to reduce the loss of tax revenue and increase confidence. After all, our parties agree to do so. So let us discuss and find out what these are for some areas that we believe should be addressed and provided with funds. Then we will end up having a situation that should be to both my satisfaction and Rune Lund's satisfaction, namely that we have significantly strengthened our tax administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165430	Thanks to Jesper Petersen. There are no more comments. As no one else has asked for the floor, we will conclude the negotiations here. I propose that all three proposals be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165506	The debate is open. The first to speak is the tax minister, welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165515	Thank you, President. We will then conclude today's programme here in Parliament with B 132 on increased tobacco tax. It is a motion for a resolution from the Alternative to increase the tobacco tax by 50%. It is by no means the government's policy to introduce new taxes, nor to raise them, and for the same reason we have a tax freeze. It may well be that raising taxes on tobacco can be a tool for limiting the consumption of tobacco. What I will say afterwards will show that what the alternative proposes is not, in my view, well thought out to use a nice word. However, the reality is that a significant increase in taxation also increases cross-border trade and the illegal trade in tobacco products. The proposal is estimated to almost triple the threefold trade in cigarettes, and this will probably cause the owners of Fleggaard south of the border to be very enthusiastic about the alternative, but it makes no sense at all. In addition to the fact that the tax increase is not in line with the government's tax stoppage, it will not be in line with the Government's ambition to make it easier and cheaper to operate in Denmark. A significant tax increase may have negative consequences for the Danish retail trade and will therefore also, at worst, mean fewer jobs in Denmark. The alternative has written that they expect an increase to result in an additional revenue of 1.6 billion. kr. That is by no means likely. A doubling of the levy is not estimated to entail any additional revenue. No more money will come in by doubling the tax. On the contrary, a doubling of the tax is likely to result in a reduction in the revenue from the levy of approximately 100 million. kr. This is due to the fact that the level of self-financing is above 100%. as a result of behavioural effects in the form of increased cross-border trade. To put it more directly: if you increase taxes so much, it is important to emphasise that we live in a country where it is relatively easy to go abroad. There are so many Danes who want to do so. That is where they want to buy a lot of cigarettes, and that is why what the alternative will achieve will be a deficit in the box. The sensitivity to tobacco smuggling in particular of cigarettes and a large number of other things is well known. For that reason alone, what the alternative proposes is unwise. The Government must therefore note that the proposal is not a good initiative to reduce the consumption of tobacco, as it will at the same time adversely affect the Danish retail trade as a result of increased cross-border trade and illegal trade and, in addition, is expected to generate less revenue. Although the intention may be good enough, namely that people should smoke less, this is an unwise way of doing so and therefore the government cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165818	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165823	That was a very direct speech from the tax minister. After all, it is good that there may be disagreements in politics; there must be disagreements in politics. So I will not go into the details much because I simply do not think that we will be able to agree on them in two minutes, but rather ask more generally. The figures for whether cross-border trade has increased significantly, and that is almost mildly said, compared to what the tax minister says in recent years, after having actually had some tax reductions in 2015, are not figures, at least not figures that we just see exploded, i.e. in relation to people having taken one place and the other. Is it actually one hundred percent certain that this is such a lousy proposal? I understand that we can look at the future differently, but there are many, including stakeholders and experts, who indicate that this might be very sensible. Then we can talk about the degree and size of the tax increase, but we think that there is a need for a bit of a shock in order for it to have an effect. If it becomes such an even compensation, it is rare that so much happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165922	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519165924	It is, of course, an estimate, and estimates are always estimates, and there is a certain uncertainty about the consequences, but I believe that we can now say with a great deal of professionalism that, with the proposal put forward here by the Alternative, the alternative does not suggest that we should raise tobacco taxes a tiny amount, a very, very large increase being proposed. Of course, that's what I'm dealing with as tax minister. The large increase will generate less revenue, and it is doubtful whether it will lead to much less smoking, for the sole reason that, as I said, it supports massive border trade. So it's the case with cigarettes that it's some of the easy-to-smuggle stuff, and it's a high-value commodity, so it's a commodity that's very sensitive to cross-border trade, and that's why it has these effects. It may be that you can turn up the tobacco taxes a little bit, but on this scale it is unreasonable, I would say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170026	There, at least, we have an established disagreement to go further politically in the committee and also in the alternative. But then I'll take a look at the health aspect of this. It is not because we partout want people to smoke less, so you can smoke and enjoy it, just as you can take a glass of alcohol or generally live unhealthy if that is what you want. We just want to motivate you to have the choice to live in a different way and to be motivated to live in a different way. There are some who have got used to smoking and who may need just to get a hint with a truck pole that this may not be the right direction. It may also be that there is something economically justifiable in our health system by making such a tax increase here, because one will simply see that there are more lifestyle diseases which one might over time come to terms with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170115	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170117	I fully agree with the alternative in the desire for the Danes to smoke less, and we encourage them to do so. That is why we also have a tax on tobacco. I think that, in general, we should be careful to conduct other policies through the tax system. The fact that we want to conduct social policy and health policy and other things through taxes is one of the complexities of our tax system. So I think we should be very careful about that, but we have chosen to do it on tobacco. If you want the Danes to smoke less, you can turn a little on the tobacco tax. What is the challenge with this in relation to the government's tax freeze is to do it as much as the alternative suggests, and that would be unwise. I believe in fact that other ways, prevention, information and other ways must be taken. If you are going to make the Danes smoke less, I do not think you get very far through the tax system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170210	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170216	Well, that's a bit of an uproar from the treasure minister: unwise and not thought through. Surely I can vouch for the fact that there are a great many sources in the comments on the proposal. I think it is fairly well documented here that it has a really, very good effect on young people and their start with smoking. Now, for example, the tax minister says that the statements about cross-border trade, which were part of the tax minister's presentation here, are based on estimates. I am here with a study by Gallup on border trade, and it shows that, although the tax was raised in 2015, border trade has fallen sharply in recent years. Isn't that right? It is from a report called the Status of Border Trade 2016.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170319	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170321	Yes, the border trade has fallen. I believe that, overall, border trade has fallen because we have reduced some taxes. Under the previous government a soda-water tax was lowered, which my party supported, and this has led to more soft drinks being sold in Denmark instead of on the other side of the border. This is the example of the fact that the argument I am making is correct, namely that these things are very sensitive, and that is why we must be very careful. It may be that you can turn a little, but what the alternative is up to here is simply too much. I think that is very, very clear when you read the questions put by the alternative as the preparatory work for the proposal. That's why I'm actually wondering why you're suggesting this. When you've got documentation that shows that this is very, very violent, I think it's strange that you've written this proposal, and that's why I insist that I think it's unwise to make this 50 percent increase that the alternative suggests they want. It will have some ketchup effects in relation to border trade, which is very worrying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170429	I am a little stunned that the Minister is so puzzled that we are proposing something that promotes health. Experience also shows, in relation to the soda-ash levy, as the Minister himself pointed out, that when the soda-ash tax was removed, border trade did not fall. The Minister is saying that our proposal is unwise and not well thought out. In fact, the Minister has no evidence of those allegations. Furthermore, the Ministry of Health and the Elderly stated in a reply that a 65-percent increase in tobacco prices would lead to an annual reduction in health expenditure of 5.9 billion. kr. There are plenty of good arguments for putting forward this proposal. I don't understand why we should be so unwise and unthinkable in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170527	I certainly do not think that the alternative is, but I have to say that I think this proposal is ill-considered. Just to make one point, the comments on the motion for a resolution point out that an increased tax is estimated to amount to 1.64 billion. kr., and refers to a parliamentary response which dealt with something quite different and turned on some buttons other than what the alternative proposes with the motion for a resolution. I simply do not understand that when you have received these answers you have not read them properly and that you then make such a motion for a resolution which is unwise. It is fair that we have a political disagreement as to whether or not to raise taxes, but it is undoubtedly that such a strong tax increase will lead to massive border trade, and I believe that the things I have explained here are well documented. This is something we are welcome to ask during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170618	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170621	Thank you. In Norway they did a little the same exercise as this one a few years ago, so a pack of cigarettes now costs in the vicinity of DKK 90-100. In fact, it did not result in a fall in revenue, which was probably expected. This actually resulted in an increase, although half of Norway's population has less than an hour to Sweden and thus the possibility of cross-border trade. Has the Minister considered the situation in Norway, where, because a large part of their geography is close to Sweden, a larger increase in cross-border trade could also be expected than was the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170702	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170704	If I am not mistaken, Norway has some major problems with illegal cigarettes, including cigarettes, which, because they are illegal, do not necessarily meet the standards that ordinary recognised producers apply. And I would be very surprised if Norway's problem with cigarette smuggling is not linked to the fact that there are very, very high taxes. This is the kind of situation we can end up in, and we must be aware that if traffic routes have been set up, it is very, very difficult to get rid of this kind of thing. That's why it's quite important to look at this border sensitivity in terms of how to set the charges. What challenges Denmark in contrast to Norway is that we have an entire industry in Germany south of the border, i.e. some huge retail chains that run massive advertisements to get the Danes to drive across the border and buy goods that have not been taxed, and therefore it would be very, very easy for them to challenge such a tax increase. Norway is not in this situation compared to Sweden, so one cannot compare Norway and Denmark; therefore this has some special effects in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170821	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170823	Nevertheless, despite the circumstances described by the Minister, it turned out that revenue actually increased in Norway, although a considerable increase in the price, which is now DKK 90-100. Or in that piece. Does it not impress the Minister that in our neighbours it can actually work, that is to say that it actually provides an income? So what I am just asking is: is it taken into account in the Minister's deliberations that our neighbouring countries have increased revenue with such a noticeable increase in taxes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170905	I would like to take a closer look at Norway, but I am not impressed by the way the Norwegian tax system is linked. By the way, I like the country and have been skiing there many times. It is a great country and a great people, but their taxation of cigarettes and other luxury goods does not seem to me to be a shining example for Denmark to follow. But I think it would be really nice to have some of these things plotted out in committee. So it is a call for the questions that are now being asked, and then we must deliver good and hopefully also quick answers from the Treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170940	I would like to thank the Minister for Taxation. And then I would like to welcome Mr. Jesper Petersen, draftsman of the Social Democratic Party at least in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519170954	Thank you. When it comes to the charging of different goods, including some of those on which taxes are deliberately imposed, both in order to obtain revenue, but also in order to influence consumption, we always have to find the right balance and consider the full consequences of the proposals. It is acting, for example. on border trade, where there are, after all, some products that are particularly sensitive to it, for example. tobacco products. The previous government under the leadership of Helle Thorning-Schmidt actually raised the cigarette tax at some point. We must also say that we are now close to the limit of what is a sensible tax to pay tobacco and cigarettes. In any case, it is certain that increasing the tax as strongly as the alternative proposed by the motion for a resolution here would lead to much more illegal trade and also to a substantial increase in cross-border trade. As the tax minister says, it will simply cost 100 million. kr. to implement the proposal in terms of tax losses. There will be an approximately threefold increase in the trade in cigarettes and other tobacco products. I would also say, as someone who comes from an area of the country in the South Jutland close to the German border, that it is therefore something that is problematic and that affects the retail trade that there is a lot of border trade. We have actually been concerned about reducing it, and that is why we do not think it makes sense to make such a massive increase in taxation as is being done here. In relation to doing something about tobacco consumption and getting fewer young people to start with it and so on, it was, of course, one of the aims of raising the cigarette tax in the previous government. So you always have this balance in relation to cross-border trade. Of other proposals, we have come up with the idea of getting tobacco products under the counter and introducing neutral packages and things like that. I am not an expert on these things, but I have just been informed that there are, after all, various other proposals in which, in combination with the increases made by the levies, there are other ways of preventing the use of cigarettes, not least among young people who want fewer people to start and consumption to be reduced. One last thing from local experience is that I really think that the alternative should also consider the green bottom line, which is something you are concerned with here. So, the massive traffic it would give out of the country to buy cigarettes and tobacco across the border is not something that is actually good for the environment, just as it is also necessary to say that because a cigarette is bought in Germany instead of in Denmark, it is not going to be healthier to smoke. And because there are no VAT and taxes on it, smoking does not become healthier either. On the contrary, it causes a loss to the Treasury and it cannot be certain that the demands that actually exist for tobacco products sold in Denmark have been taken into account. So we are opposed to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171330	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171334	Thank you. With regard to the rapporteur's experience and opinions, I am of course sorry that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will not take part in this in the light of previous statements, including those of the then Minister for Health, Astrid Krag, who was positive about it. But I would like to hear from the rapporteur: what is most important is that fewer young people smoke or the retail trade, the cross-border trade? And then I think it is a very, what to say, good feeling of the rapporteur to talk about this green bottom line that we are talking about in the alternative. I told you earlier about a report by Gallup which shows that there will not be this massive traffic that the rapporteur mentions here. But what is most important for the rapporteur: that we get young people to stop smoking, or whether there is an increase in cross-border trade and that the retail trade is affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171444	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171448	It's too early to use that title! But I would say that I do not think it is quite reasonable to argue this way. Because if we make such a sharp increase in taxes, you will only buy cigarettes in Germany instead of or take them home from trips to Eastern Europe or where you will now buy some very cheap cigarettes which will be extremely cheaper than they will be in Denmark if you increase the tax so heavily. Well, it doesn't make young people stop smoking, so they just smoke some people they haven't paid taxes on. And that's not good. Balances need to be found here, both when it comes to cross-border trade and health. And there are so different proposals on what can be done to achieve some of the health effects you want to achieve. But this is simply not thought through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171550	It is not well thought out, says the rapporteur, but yet it is an estimate on which all the statements from the platform so far are based, in other words massive traffic that destroys the climate and all sorts of things, a massive drive to Germany. I have full respect for the rapporteur's view that there are a great many people at the border who cross the border and buy cigarettes and other things there. But I find it hard to imagine if the price is increased to approx. 55 kroner that we will then see massive traffic across the border and to other countries and illegal products that will be sold. Does the rapporteur have any evidence of this? I think it's an automatic reaction and an autopilot that gets hit every time we try to have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171647	Thank you. No, in fact, I think that it is the alternative that takes too lightly a well-known issue in the area of taxation - and indeed also in the area of health, because there are no beneficial effects of just getting frontier-traded or illegal products into consumption instead. For example, it is known about cigarettes that it is of great importance to cross-border trade, and reports are being made after reports on it, and when border trade has fallen for some years, it is actually because some tax changes were made in relation to, among others. beer and soda. This may then mean, if you do as the alternative suggests, and put the cigarette tax down a lot, and then there is a lot that starts to cross the border to buy it, that they then return to buying the beer and soda on the other side of the border that they had actually started to buy in Denmark instead. And then we have won nothing about it and then it will cost society money and you will get a consumption of tobacco, which then just comes from illegal trade and cross-border trade instead. In a way, everything is good, says pig dealer Larsen's wife in Monopoly, and that is also true when it comes to finding the level of what can be taxed in order to reduce tobacco consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171802	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen, and I would like to welcome Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519171810	This proposal to raise the tax on cigarettes by 50%. We in the Danish People's Party think that this is a bad idea for several reasons, which I should now like to highlight. Firstly, we do not think it is a good idea just to raise taxes to raise them. If this is finally to be done, then it has to be the case that there is something else that you put down, so that the overall tax burden does not increase in Denmark. That is one argument. The second point that has already been made is that it will lead to massive extra border trade, which I think would be a pity and, in a sense, not improve public health, which is otherwise the purpose of this. Because if people just drive to Germany or Eastern Europe and bring cigarettes home or they just bring them home from charter holidays, then there is not much improvement in it. In fact, I also think it is serious that it will result in so much border trade. The most recent border trade report shows the same as the answer to which it is referred, namely that it will actually result in the loss of massive amounts of money. We also note the oddity of proposing a 50% increase in the tax and then referring to an answer to a question where it is the price that has to rise by 50%. This means that it is not as well worked out as the alternative itself tries to say it is, that is, when you do not quite know what answers you are referring to and what funding there is in the proposal. And there is certainly no funding for the proposal we are putting forward here ourselves. So it's a little funny in itself. But if you take the answer as a starting point and say that it should be a 50 per cent price increase, then it will make Denmark lose 0.5 billion. kr. by raising the tax. And it is a little foolish to impose such high taxes on Denmark that it actually causes loss to the Treasury, while it becomes significantly more expensive. A rather serious issue is also that it has a significant social impact. Because we know that those who typically smoke a lot are people with lower income or lower education. And that is quite wrong, for those who have such a low income that they cannot afford to leave the country, they are then hanging on expensive cigarettes, while people who make a lot of money and go on charter holidays or elsewhere can buy cheap cigarettes abroad. So if you raise taxes so sharply, it will have a big social battle side, because it is precisely people who typically have lower incomes that smoke a lot. We think that would be a really bad thing. In conclusion, I would also like to say that I think it is a little strange that many of the parties that are often in favour of saying that we should have higher prices for cigarettes are the same parties that say that we should have free hashish. So that cigarettes are too unhealthy and dangerous for health, and we should not smoke them, but we should have made hashish legal in Denmark, because it is super good. So there is no common thread in it, but on a Friday afternoon it may of course be very good to get that discussion over. For many reasons, which I have mentioned, we in the Danish People's Party do not think that this is a good proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172110	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172113	Thank you. That is very much the same argument from the rapporteurs, but I would like to address the very thing about the social battle side and inequality. Now we have heard repeatedly how unwise and unthinkable it is when we make proposals on this, but it is not just us who are proposing it. I can quote Knud Juel, a professor at the State Institute for Public Health at the University of Southern Denmark, who has been the author of a report called the "Sickness Burden" in Denmark in 2015 which says: A more restrictive legislation and higher prices of tobacco and alcohol will be what will make a difference between inequality here and now. So I think there's a lot of autopilot in this, and it's a lot of standard answers you've come up with. It is, in fact, a really serious challenge that we are facing, that a greater number of young people are smoking and that it is going the wrong way. So in relation to inequality it would also be an advantage according to among other things. This professor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172220	I would like to admit that in my argument there is a large degree of automatic pilot, and that is, in fact, very logical. Because we have had this discussion a great many times, both in the Folketing, in the media and in debates, and that is the same argument we use every time, and fortunately, one can sometimes say because we sort of stand for the same thing every time we discuss it here. And it is, of course, that we do not think it makes sense to make such a high increase, that is to say 50 per cent, of the tax, which will only lead to massive border trade and to greater inequality. We do not think this is a good idea in the Danish People's Party, and it is also the case that it is not new to the Danes that smoking is unhealthy. I smoke myself. I'm the most party smoker, but I know it's unhealthy, and if I wanted to go to parties, I'd probably do it, whether a cigarette pack cost 50 kroner. or 80 kroner, that is, as such, an apartment smoker. So this is not new for the Danes, and it is not the case that we should come and tell them a whole new thing, where people then say: Hey, was it unhealthy to smoke? I wasn't aware of that. So yes, the argument is going to run on automatic pilot, because it is an old discussion that has been going on for many years, and the Danes know that smoking is unhealthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172321	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172325	The new thing in this is that more kids smoke. In fact, it is news that it is going the wrong way in relation to young people, and the study published on 4 March 2017 also shows that there is an increasing number of young people starting to smoke. Well, that's new, isn't it? It may be an old discussion, but apparently something is not working. More and more kids are smoking. I think that, even if you are not the rapporteur on health, you should take seriously the fact that more and more young people are smoking and we must find the solutions we can find so that not so many young people start smoking. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172414	I have no wish that there should be a continued increase and that there should be more young people smoking. I'm quite comfortable with people not smoking; that's fine. But is it then the tax screw that you need to use as the primary tool for it, that is to say, raise taxes so high that, according to the alternative, it will cost a great deal of money for the Treasury instead of contributing money? There are other alternatives than just using the tax screw as the only behavior-regulating tool. There are smoking cessation courses and there are information campaigns, and I think people know that smoking is unhealthy. If you simply turn it on and you have to get the tax up, it will just make people buy their cigarettes elsewhere, and if they are still out buying cigarettes in Germany, yes, they may buy beer and other things with, which will only have a negative effect on Danish turnover and thus Danish jobs, while border trade increases. So we do not think it is a good idea to make such a marked increase in taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172459	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, and welcome to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172506	Thank you very much, and thank you for that great introduction. With this proposal, the alternative would like to impose a 50% increase in the tobacco tax on the government, which would mean that a package of cigarettes would cost about DKK 55. There can be no disagreement about the harmful health consequences of smoking. It is highly addictive and tobacco has a very negative impact on public health, and we agree that as many Danes as possible should drop cigarettes and that young people should not start smoking in the first place. The alternative is that the motion for a resolution will reduce tobacco consumption and that it will generate an additional revenue of 1.6 billion. kr. We consider that the additional revenue is not realistic and, as the Minister of Taxation has said, the Ministry of Taxation is in fact expecting a smaller amount of revenue. Higher taxes and price increases on tobacco can also lead to more cross-border trade, which I would prefer not to say it will do, and illegal trade in cigarettes, and illegal trade cannot be expected to mean that sellers who already sell an illegal product will be interested in the age limits for whom they sell cigarettes. So you can argue that this can have the opposite effect compared to when young people start smoking if it becomes more widespread with illegal cigarettes. We in the Left are also in favour of a tax freeze. We have a desire to make it easier and cheaper to operate in Denmark. A tax increase would have a negative impact on the Danish retail trade without being offset by a benefit to the health of the Danes if cigarettes were instead bought across the border or bought illegally. According to the Treasury, this will also give less money to the Treasury. Against this background, the Left cannot support the proposal. On behalf of the Conservatives, I must say that the Conservatives also reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172659	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172705	Thank you for a very kind and balanced rapporteur speech. It has been mentioned here several times that the solution is not to raise taxes. I doubt the industry itself will raise the price. We know that the price is important, especially for young people. In the United States, where I was just here in the autumn, a pack of cigarettes costs 80 kroner. Or so. It is therefore very significant that a country such as the United States, as a health-promoting and preventive measure, chooses to have cigarettes at that price. Now it's also mentioned several times here with the less revenue. I was not given the opportunity to ask the tax minister because I can only ask once. Has the Minister of Taxation taken into account the response from the Ministry of Health and the Elders, which shows that health expenditure will fall by 5.9 billion. kr., if you make an increase of 65%. on tobacco prices? Is this part of the deliberations of the rapporteur and the party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172807	When it comes to the methods of calculating the tax department, I would recommend that the questioner put a written question to the tax minister during the committee procedure. It is best suited to specific questions. However, I would like to say that it is clear that we are looking at what the statistics on cross-border trade say in general, including over time, so that we assess what the elasticity is in border trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172830	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172832	Again, I would like to hear the other aspects of border trade and the whole part of the argument. There's also the whole health promotion and the whole assessment of how much of the store is in goose eyes we'll be bet on young people not to start smoking. We know that when you start early smoking, you smoke for years and you have a higher consumption of cigarettes. So how much will the Left go into this about getting young people to stop smoking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172908	Now I am not the Left Health rapporteur, so I cannot really discuss it in the health field. I would recommend that you go to the Health Committee instead. But it is clearly our wish that young people do not start smoking at all. We think this is a really bad idea. We just don't think this is the right solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172925	Thank you to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. And welcome to Mr. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten. He is particularly welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519172942	Thank you, President, for your warm welcome. After all, the proposal here is a proposal from the Alternative to require the government to propose a 50 per cent increase in the tobacco tax. By the end of 2017 From Enhedslisten's side, our position is also that the tobacco tax should be increased. This is, of course, because we see a large number of problems with smoking today, including, as the comments on the proposal also show, that one in four Danes dies from smoking disease. We have also seen a worrying increase in the number of young people who start smoking, and since we know that most smokers start smoking in their teens, it is particularly important to influence young people not to begin with that. It is particularly important to focus on the fact that young people too do not increasingly start smoking but, on the contrary, start smoking less. We also know that taxes on tobacco, like taxes in other areas, are an important instrument in creating the right incentive structures to get people to do or not to do certain things. It is also true when you look at what a package of cigarettes costs in Denmark, that then the price is low, compared to what it is in Norway or in other countries. It is also mentioned that the price in Switzerland is apparently DKK 53, and in Canada it is DKK 60, according to the proposers. So we are in favour of raising the percentage. However, we have not determined a certain percentage on the part of Enhedslisten when we have discussed it in the past. So this is something we want to discuss. But I can say that if there were a majority in favour of this proposal, and you can hear that there is not, then there would be a call for negotiations where we would have to go further into the details and there we would have to discuss what the precise percentage increase would be. In this context, it is also important to look at whether there are some other things we can do at the same time. Is there anything about what cigarette packs look like? Is there anything more we can do in relation to access to smoking cessation courses? For example: anything we can do to improve access to health checks? Then there is also the part of it which concerns it, what can be said, in the motion for a resolution that creates inequality. For taxes turn the heavy end down. When we are a red-green party, we want to do things like this. to put green taxes on the environment or low taxes, which means that we will have less unhealthy consumption among our citizens. But we're a red-green party, and then we're always looking at if we do this kind of action, for example. increases the tax on tobacco, whether it will turn the heavy end down. Those who typically smoke are people with the lowest incomes and the shortest educations. And what can be done to compensate it at the same time? So if you're going to look at this, our approach would be that we would have to make a tobacco tax package, where we also looked at, for example. Some compensatory tax measures. At any rate, we would be based on the tax plan that we presented in January 2016, when we want to increase the personal allowance by DKK 10,000. for income below DKK 250,000. and gradually reduces the extra deduction for income between 250,000 and 300,000 DKK. We have various financing proposals for this, including: property taxes and various other proposals. But it is just to say that one simply has to look at how we can compensate for the growing inequality which will also lie in an otherwise sensible proposal such as this. With those comments, I would like to say that we also want to look at raising taxes on tobacco products, and that is why Enhedslisten's position on this proposal is that we are in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173407	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173409	Thank you. I am pleased that the Enhedslisten is positive. Now it's not like we say 50% or we don't get it. It is a bid and it is based on some of the figures that have come forward on what it takes to have an effect on behaviour. I also agree that we must of course look at something about the social battle side, but there is also the element in it that we have what we call inequality in health, so there is also a social battle side here. On Tuesday we have a proposal that VAT on fruit and vegetables should be reduced. They could also be such measures. So I just agree with the rapporteur that we need to look at all the measures we can at all, and of course we are also willing to look at the fact that it is not certain that it should be 50%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173513	This could be discussed in debates of this kind if there were a majority in this Parliament who are in favour. In this regard, I thought it was very funny in my preparation for the debate here today to see an article from Monday Morgen from 28 April 2017 that likes to review what the electorate of the parties thinks about this. They are asked: What do you think about raising the tax on tobacco products? It is the case that in all parties there is in fact a majority of voters who think it is a very good or quite good proposal. It is the voters of Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti who are in the low end, but more than 50%, and then it just goes up there. I find it very interesting that in fact there is also some resonance in this area in the population. But I just want to say that it's very important when you do this kind of thing that we look at how we can compensate for the growing inequality that will follow with a proposal like this. Otherwise, things aren't connected, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173614	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173616	It is also my impression that there is, in fact, a fairly broad perception among the public that it would be good to do something about the price, including among smokers, but of course there will be some who are against it. But what I think is important is that it has such an effect on young people, and that we know that if we can stop some people there, then we will not get so much what to say about stable smokers in the long term and some who have such a high consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173648	Yes, these are some considerations that I fully share.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173654	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more comments. Then we'll go over to mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519173706	Thank you for that, President. After all, this is a motion for a resolution aimed at raising the tobacco tax by as much as 50%. I think this is a frontal attack on the social bottom line of the alternative, because this is a hugely crooked proposal, a proposal that hits them with the lowest incomes, which reduces public revenue, and thus there will be fewer tax dollars to increase public spending or whatever you want to spend money on. Then I am also fundamentally opposed to this desire to control the behaviour of citizens so much; you sit in the alternative and have an idea of what the right way of life is, and that is not the right way for people to smoke. This is not the right way to live, and you want to stop it. It is not because I think we should smoke, because it is probably the most unhealthy thing we can do at all, but I think it is extremely important and much more important that we have a free society in which people can make choices, including choices that are unhealthy, because the fact that we decide on our own lives is extremely important. This is one of the things that creates a good society. Furthermore, I am not sure that this will reduce the number of smokers, both because it will lead to increased cross-border trade, i.e. this will be a good thing for criminals, and there will certainly be a market for selling illegal cigarettes, but also because, as we know from the alcohol point of view, when people cross the border and trade, they will buy much more. It's almost every frontier product you buy. You simply buy much larger portions, because when you go down to the border, down to Fleggaard, or who you go down to, you buy in very, very large quantities. This actually means that consumption will be higher than if you could buy the goods at a competitive price in the local supermarket, where you would then buy a little less. So I do not believe that the alternative will achieve the objective they want to achieve. I can also understand that the aim is for fewer young people to smoke. It's a fine goal to have, but there's this the wrong way to go in my opinion. When I had to prepare a little for this motion for a resolution, I found an article from 2012, where the headline is: "The Fight against Cancer confirms: You can smoke in the 20s without fear of premature tobacco death." And the point here is that there is a study from Oxford that shows that if you stop smoking before you are 30 years old, the risk of dying early from tobacco-related diseases is reduced by 97%. That is why I do not think that this proposal is proportional to what we want to achieve. So the cost is very high and it would be much more appropriate to reduce the number of smokers, young smokers, in other ways. That is why we cannot support this motion for a resolution. It is the wrong tool, it has a social battle side, it will lead to increased crime in the form of illegal trade in cigarettes, such as for example. know it from Norway, and if you want young people to quit smoking, it has to be done in other forums. Then it has to be done by adult people, role models, parents and others, talking to their children, and then, of course, some young people will start smoking. That is where we can see it, but then we must try to get them to stop smoking before they turn 30, because then it is not so dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174214	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. There are no brief comments, of course, there are. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174226	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen to assess, as an additional rapporteur, the proposals in relation to our three bottom lines. The rapporteur actually assessed this in relation to our social bottom line. I would say that from this point of view, in the alternative, we have a policy on health promotion and prevention. And yes, you have to touch people's self-determination if you have a policy that involves nudging and other forms of trying to get people to change their behaviour, and I admit that we are in favour of that alternative. I can only mention that among the 15-year-olds who come from families where both parents are unemployed, 16 per cent smoke. 8 per cent daily and 8 per cent daily. occasionally. So it also has a social battle side, compared to who it is that starts with smoking. Now there was a study that showed that then you could just quit again, but I can show studies that show that the sooner you start smoking, the longer you smoke, and the harder it is to quit. And these are the considerations we have. Thank you, however, it is sympathetic that the rapporteur is thinking about the social bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174340	Well, I always do, and we always do in the Liberal Alliance. We are very, very aware of the social bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174355	The questioner. No? Well, then, thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen and welcome Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174403	Thank you. The Radical Left shares the intention and intention of the alternative with the proposal, so, unlike the government, we do not have any ideological quabble by raising a tax in order to lower someone else or to promote public health. It is a little thought-provoking that there are a few hundred, unfortunately, who die in traffic every year, while there are about 13 000 who die a year as a result of tobacco. We also know that cancer, dementia and other diseases have implications from smoking. This measure is one of the most important measures that can be taken to prevent such diseases. We also know that smoking in pregnancy affects the child's weight and hence its development. What we know about how to prevent smoking and stop people is that campaigns work on some, but they don't work on everyone. On the other hand, we have a fairly good overview of what particularly works on young people. And there's this whole thing about regulating the tax and adjusting it. We know this is something that young people are susceptible to when it comes to getting them to stop smoking. So we agree that higher tobacco prices in general will cause young people not to smoke at all and that increased taxes can make a difference. In the longer term, this may lead to savings in health care, but there is no doubt that in the early years an increase may represent a cost which needs to be considered further. This is because regular smokers will not necessarily stop smoking, but may buy tobacco elsewhere. So in this way, we should not rule out the possibility of the state losing revenue. What is just interesting, as I said earlier after the Minister's presentation, is that we have an example in our neighbouring country, Norway, which raised their tax significantly a few years ago. This was interesting because, contrary to their expectations, they actually received higher revenues, although half of Norway has an hour's drive to Sweden, so that otherwise it could be assumed that there would be a much larger cross-border trade than was the case, but they actually gained more revenue, despite a large increase in taxes. It is certainly interesting and something that can be taken into account in further work. However, we are a little uncertain as to what exactly the economic consequences are of the alternative's proposal, whether it should be 50% or where to put the cut. We can then clarify that in committee and adopt a position from that point of view. But we are very much in favour of this element of prevention, but it has to be based on a closer assessment and consideration of how and how the averages are calculated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174735	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. Now we've only had three men, and then we got a woman as rapporteur. Now we have had three men again, and it is quite natural that we should then have a woman as the next rapporteur here, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519174750	If anyone should keep up, I would say that there are no women's quotas on this proposal. The alternative proposal for a 50% increase in tobacco tax is open to us in the SF. In the past, we have proposed an indexation of the tax so that it increases continuously and continuously. It has both the advantage that it becomes more expensive but also that it becomes relatively predictable, as much as it can now be in the area of taxes. For taxes is, of course, the very exciting and unpredictable part of tax policy. Very many of the charges are set in the world to promote a target • it can be better environment, climate, public health etc. Therefore, it is not smart to base your welfare society on taxes at least not too much. They must be used to promote development and change habits. I smoke myself, and I have done so since I was 18 years old, and it is really difficult to stop, as the alternative rapporteur also mentioned. But now this isn't about me and my habits, and in SF is And it's very cheap to smoke in Denmark compared to most other countries we compare with when you look at wages and look at our purchasing power. In 2001 I lived in London for a year, and then I had to work for approx. One and a half hours at the minimum wage to buy a pack of cigarettes. So that would be like a multiple price increase today on a pack of cigarettes. I don't know if it's gonna be 50 percent. There are also some aspects of border trade in that. It can be said that we should not do so in order to maintain the same level of young smokers, because I fully agree with the rapporteur for the alternative that it is worrying that we are actually now seeing that developments are going the other way, namely that more people are starting to smoke. But we shouldn't have a situation where people smoke as much, but just buy the cigarettes south of the border instead. But, as I said, we are open to it. We believe that the price of a package of cigarettes should be significantly higher than it is today. But we also need to look at, and it is crucial for SF, that virtually all charges, or by far most charges, have a massive social battle side. Because we go in and put a tax on consumption and then you can say that it is not a fundamental necessity to be able to buy cigarettes but still away we have the principle of principle that when new taxes come on the field, whether we propose them or others suggest them, we should preferably use the proceeds to lower the tax at the bottom or give increased deductions for the lowest income or how it can be. Because it may be a very good way to change habits or ensure better environment, more health etc., but we do not want it to have a social battle side. That is why there must be compensatory action. You could do that here. If you had some calculations on what it costs to raise the cigarette tax by one percentage or another, and then said that we would go in and facilitate one to one in a way that is particularly targeted at the lowest incomes, then you would also help the tax minister, in relation to at least overall it must not be more expensive to be a Dane. So maybe it could be an idea. But we have to look at that. I am not ready to say today that we support the proposal in the form in which it is drafted, but we support its intention and that it must be significantly more expensive to buy tobacco.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519175228	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments, so we are hurrying up to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519175236	Thank you and, above all, thank you for having this debate and for a certain kind of willingness to discuss it. Let me start with a little thought experiment. Let us imagine that I am the CEO of the company Fiktive A/S, and from the beginning of 2018 my company would like to introduce a new product. The product is highly addictive, and it has a number of consequences for your health such as the risk of high blood pressure, too much carbon monoxide in the blood, poor circulation in the body and a reduced lung function. You also get an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, increased risk of lung cancer and many other cancers. There is also a higher risk of impotence and reduced chance of becoming pregnant. The product should cost about 40 kroner. for 20 pieces and be available for all over 18 years, stand at eye level in all grocery stores, kiosks, bars and discos throughout the country in beautiful colors. It doesn't taste very good at first. You will actually get a little bad of it, but once you've tried it sometimes, it actually tastes great and you end up buying approx. Twenty a day. At least it can end up with that, and it can seem really hard to stop. Let us then assume that we in the Folketing should decide to allow this product in Denmark. I don't think we would do that, and I think we can figure out that this description fits tobacco as a product. I am not here today to ban smoking in any way whatsoever, and I am not here to tell anyone that they are not allowed to smoke. But in the alternative, we would like to take some steps so that we can have a smoke-free generation in the future. I could mention a lot of figures and I would like to mention a few of them here. Approx. 14,000 people die every year as a result of smoking, and that is almost a quarter of all deaths in Denmark. I am not going to go through all the figures because they have been examined here today. We all know that smoking is really, really dangerous and has major health consequences, and I think we can also agree that we will do what we can to have a smoke-free generation in the future. And there's this one guess how we're gonna do it. Now we have been told several times today that it is unwise and unthinkable, and it is also fun and interesting to get it attached to you when you are standing here. But now it is not only the alternative that has proposed it. It is based on some people who know more about it than we who are here today. So we need to figure out how to do it. We know that most young people who start smoking in their teens find it particularly difficult to stop smoking, and that is why we think it is a really important debate to have it taken. It is, of course, a challenge that it is not the health rapporteurs who have this area, but we should somehow be able to meet that across silos and professional boundaries, etc. That is why I am pleased that today we have had a debate which has gone a little further and that we have not only talked about border trade and what it will cost. For the increase in tobacco prices is, according to among others: The fight against cancer, the WHO, the Medical Association and others are an important instrument in reducing the consumption of tobacco by children and young people. So I do not think I will say much more than that I think it is positive that we have had a more nuanced debate on this this afternoon, and I think it is really important to have the debate and to say that we have a responsibility towards our young people. I think that has been highlighted here today, and I would like more people to be forthcoming in discussing it. I welcome the fact that several parties have shown themselves sympathetic to discussing this and to the fact that, of course, we should not set any percentage at all and that there may also have to be other measures in conjunction with it. And now I just want to go home in the sun and enjoy the fact that there were more here who could see the positive and good about this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519175706	Thank you, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. I hope the sun will shine for a long time. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170519175724	There is no more to be done in this sitting, and I would like to thank two parliamentary officials, one official, two ministerial secretaries, one minister, four politicians and the usual well-designed team of the Legal Secretariat. We will now conclude by announcing that the next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 23 May 2017 at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
