ParlaMint-DK_20170407100034	The meeting is open. Member of the Folketing Jeppe Jakobsen (DF) and others. I have been informed that he wishes to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on a bridge-building function at the Veteran Centre. B76). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed. Today there are the following reviews: Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 149 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reinforced municipal procedures in the field of disability). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Request no. F 54 (Does the Prime Minister consider it appropriate for the Ministry of Finance to have as much influence as it has in all areas of policy?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Prime Minister (Lars Løkke Rasmussen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with Article 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, to give the Folketing a written statement on the Kingdom Community 2017. 11). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Tuesday, 23 May 2017. The Committee on the Environment and Food has presented: Report on the Environment and Food Minister Esben Lunde Larsen's handling of the situation regarding the quota concentration in the fisheries sector in Denmark. 5. The report will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407100207	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407100310	Before moving on to paragraph 4, I should like to point out that the display of speaking time on the platform has unfortunately broken. It has not been possible to change it before the beginning of the meeting. I shall therefore rise when ten seconds remain of speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407100330	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 18 April 2017. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questions put to the Commission by the honourable Member. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407100356	The people are entitled to security, and yet the government constantly pushes the uncertainty by publicly juggling with proposals to postpone the time when people can retire. The V government proposed to postpone the retirement age by 1⁄2 years, while perhaps it is a little more uncertain with the current government. That's why SF has called this inquiry debate. We need to know the government's policy in such a central area, which is so deeply affecting the lives of our citizens. Security about retirement age must not be shaken by night-time negotiations in the Ministry of Finance on future financial laws, where perhaps money will have to be found to pamper those citizens who, moreover, have so much in advance. The Danish Parliament can provide that security this morning. A majority has already indicated in the public debate that they do not want to postpone the pension limit further, in other words beyond what has already been decided upon in previous reforms. It should therefore be quite simple for that majority to manifest itself in this Chamber, yes, perhaps it has already been done by the government taking stock of the situation, so that the ministerial response guarantees that the retirement age is not in the hands of the government. If the Minister does not wish to give that guarantee, I can say that I have listened to the fact that a clear majority in the Folketing will protect the population from any misdeeds by the government, thereby providing the security which should be associated with the right to retire. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party and the SF, I would like to make the following proposals for adoption...
ParlaMint-DK_20170407100547	Unfortunately, that is not going to work right now, because that is the explanatory statement for the moment, so it will have to come later. Thank you. Then it is the Minister of Employment for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407100600	Thank you for that, and also thank you to Mr. Karsten Hønge and SF for the possibility that we can discuss the issue of a coherent welfare society and therefore also the whole question of withdrawal here in Parliament today. Now it has not been so long since I replied to Mr. Karsten Hønge on a similar question. More specifically, it happened on 25 January here in 2017. I hope, therefore, that the questioner understands that today, to some extent, I have to repeat myself, as I still mean what I gave back in January. As I said at the time, we can only discuss the question of retirement age in concrete terms when the government comes up with its proposal, and that comes, as I have also repeatedly said, later in the spring. I said that only a few days ago in this Chamber. I therefore think that a little patience should be shown. As I have also said before, I am of course impressed that 3F has collected many signatures against a higher retirement age of course it does. But I also believe that many people will agree with me that we have to deal with the fact that life expectancy is increasing as it happily does. For it is now the case that the Danes live longer and become healthier, and in every way it is a good and positive development. This is pleasing both for the individual and for society, but it does mean, for example. (ii) the fact that pensioners' own savings have to be extended over the longer life of their pensioners. If the individual wants to maintain a good standard of living as a pensioner, it requires that the individual saves more for his or her pension. It is therefore also appropriate that more people spend part of the longer life in the labour market. In this context, it is important to be aware that the life expectancy of 60-year-olds has increased for both unskilled and those with short and long-term training, as has the employment rate. Therefore, in its 2025 plan, the previous government presented a proposal for a later withdrawal from the labour market, asking those who could to stay a little longer on the labour market. This will contribute to a fairer distribution of pension periods across generations. But that does not mean, of course, that the government does not recognise that, for example. There are 3Fs or others who are worn out before they reach retirement age. There is, and the government certainly recognizes that. In this context, I would like to emphasise that employers have a responsibility for a healthy and safe working environment and for focusing on senior policies so that seniors can be maintained in the labour market and maintain a good working life. In addition, I would like to point out that with the employment reform, which was adopted by a broad majority in the Folketing, and with the tripartite agreement on an adequate and qualified workforce, there is a focus on strengthened and targeted qualification. This is also true of seniors. We already have good opportunities for withdrawal today. For example, people who are worn out after many years in the labour market have. the possibility of a flexible job if their working capacity is substantially and permanently reduced. Unlike in the past, there is now an opportunity to be employed in a flex job for a few hours a week, and this has greatly benefited the group of older people. This is very positive and shows that in the group of older people there are several of those with reduced working capacity who now retain their link with the labour market instead of disappearing completely from the labour market and on early retirement. Finally, as you know, those people who are unable to get back into the labour market at all have the opportunity to obtain early retirement. Here, with the senior early retirement scheme, there is access to a more flexible procedure for seniors, and the fact is that approx. nine out of ten persons applying for a senior early retirement pension are awarded it. In addition, there are a number of schemes that support the attractiveness of seniors to stay longer in the labour market. I am thinking here, among other things. to the tax-free premium under the early retirement scheme and to continue to work while receiving a national pension or by suspending the pension. In its upcoming initiative, the government will focus on how we can strengthen the possibility that those who can and will work longer will have better opportunities for it. The government will ensure that people who are worn out will also have good opportunities in the future to withdraw from the labour market, while taking into account the fact that we are fortunately living longer. And it is in the light of the challenges facing a financially and socially sustainable economic policy that the government's future proposals must be judged and thus also discussed with the parties of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407101100	Thank you. And then again it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407101118	Then there is good reason to be careful. When the government can deliver nothing more than that sort of walking around the hot porridge and will not be more precise about what policy towards pensioners is, then there is good reason for insecurity. There is good reason to be vigilant in future negotiations. The government, I think, is playing with the uncertainty by re-engaging that the retirement age may be set up, not for politicians, no, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! And what's the money for? Tax reliefs, cheaper cars or other bad ideas that can be obtained during night negotiations in the Ministry of Finance. This will create even more bias and injustice. People who started work at a young age and who have often had a hard working life at modest wages will pay the bill. When the retirement pension was destroyed, the so-called senior pre-retirement pension was to be the rescue plan for the worn out. But it has ended up as if we could call it a failure when only approx. 650 people have been granted it, where otherwise it was intended that at this stage there should be 2,700 who should be covered by the scheme. But the government is sitting on its hands. As I see it, the government has virtually nothing more than an arrogant shoulder pull over for the people who have worn out the door on their way out of the labour market. Many elderly people get too little out of their senior years, either because they die early or because they are worn out and too worn out to enjoy life as seniors. That is a pretty way of saying thank you for a long working life. Thanks for the effort, old man. Your work is rewarded with insecurity and inequality, for many fear that they will not last years on the job. We can't be that familiar. The tears of the years on the body through hard physical work or labor on the mental excess through a stressful everyday life do not disturb the right wing. After all, the government is looking for money to sweeten the lives of quite other citizens. Life at work can be brutal, and many worn-out citizens are desperately looking for emergency exits to decent life. The same retirement age for all means extreme inequality when people with very different lives are treated equally. This injustice is becoming more important as the retirement age increases. We live on average longer, but it covers large differences. The 25%. the longest educated men live 10 years longer than the 25 per cent. Shortest trained men. We should not tolerate the extreme social imbalance also giving access to such different senior years. The government is lost because the minister's card and compass do not correspond to the real world. The map only shows a sample where the best-off live, which can easily last a few more years on the job, while the section that maps the raw class society is invisible. I believe that we need to provide much better offers and much fairer arrangements that allow all citizens access to good senior years. As it is now, inequality increases. If you've had a long and hard working life, you'll have some tough years as a senior. There must be more and better opportunities for the elevator to stop on several floors on its way to the senior years. People with many years at work must have the opportunity to get off before they reach retirement age so that they can enjoy some good years. This is, in fact, the basis for the debate, but today the SF has chosen to make it easy in this debate by simply asking that only one thing be decided, namely that on top of this statement and on top of the reforms that have already been adopted, which will postpone retirement age, further juggles with ideas that working life should exceptionally be extended by 1⁄2 years. Against this background, I would like to make the following proposals for adoption by the Socialists and the SF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the Danes live longer and are healthier, but expresses concern for those people who cannot work full working life because of wear and tear. At the same time, the Danish Parliament notes that all Danes are entitled to a decent pension and that the retirement age is not something to go and change all the time. The Danes must be able to plan their pension life in good time, and they must be able to count on their retirement pension and other things after a long working life. Parliament therefore calls on the government to restore calm and security about the retirement age of the Danes. Parliament notes that there is no majority in favour of raising the retirement age beyond what has already been agreed and that the government should therefore drop the plans to increase the retirement age. Instead, the Folketing calls on the government to set up a committee to make proposals on how we can strengthen the possibilities of volunteering longer. • V 69).
ParlaMint-DK_20170407101621	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is part of the further debate. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we open the debate. It's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407101645	Thank you for that, and thank you to the SF for taking this debate. It's very important. And it is also quite important to ask yourself the question: why is it that the government wants a higher retirement age? I have asked myself that question, and I have still not been able to give the answer to it. Is it because they believe that we will be missing hands in the future, because they believe that we have too low a retirement age, or is it simply because the government is lacking money for tax relief? Let's start with that with hands on the job market. On page 92 of the thick report on the Danish economy presented before Christmas by the government, it says that there is still room for actual employment to increase without the prospect of capacity pressures and bottlenecks in general in the labour market or translated into ordinary Danish, as we all understand: There are available hands to fill new jobs. And according to the government's rainboys, the workforce will increase significantly, and by 2025, according to the Ministry of Finance, there will be 168,000 extra hands to take off. So no is the answer to question No. 1. There won't be a shortage of hands. So do we have a low retirement age here in Denmark? No, because with the rules that apply today, in 2040 Denmark will have the highest retirement age in Europe. So the answer must be: the government believes that those who already have much should have even more through tax cuts. And those who have to pay it are then those who have been on the labour market for several years, those who have been working and dragging since they were very young. We're talking about the carpenter, we're talking about the scaffolding worker, the SOSU assistant, the bricklayer, and I could mention many, many more. These are people who have not gone to school until they were in the mid-20s or late 20s; they are people who have actually worked hard since they left primary school. Is it okay that they are the ones who have to pay the price? Is it okay that they now have to work their whole lives and then live in the insecurity that the government puts them in? I think it's all wrong. And it shows that that government has no idea what to do. And when they finally do something, they do the wrong thing. But it is not easy when we have a government that does not see that it is actually hard to have a long working life, that it is actually working hard on the body. 'Cause when sir... Joachim B. Olsen, as I can see is in the Chamber today, it is glorious to say that there is no reason to believe that because you are 3Fs or unskilled, you are more worn out than others on the labour market when there is such a statement, I am sure that all of us who have been many years on the labour market, as I myself have, take us to heart after such a remark. All of us who have worked hard out there since we were 17 know it's working hard. We know that when you work so long and longer than those who have gone ten years further in education and who do not have such a hard physical job, you get more worn out. You're gonna feel it on your body. This is going to hurt, and one cannot, of course, work as long as those who train until they are almost 30 years old. Many figures, including figures from the Ministry of Finance, clearly show that unskilled people have a shorter life span than highly educated people. And all this isn't just something I say, even though there are a lot of people who want to say: you're just a socialist, and not many people think so. In fact, a lot of people think so. 82% of the Danes do not want a higher retirement age. 57% Nor do the Left's own voters want a higher retirement age. And now I can look down at the Danish People's Party, which is also here today, and which is, of course, the parliamentary basis of the government. Nor do they want a higher retirement age. So I just have to say: Dear government and I'm looking over at the Minister's dear government, that's not the right way to go. Not many people think it is sensible, and not many support you in it. And the majority to change the retirement age is not present. So I say that, as a government, perhaps we should look at the real problems. How can we get people to work longer and leave the labour market without being completely worn out? And how can we ensure that more people are trained, so we have enough skilled hands, as the real problem is that we are going to lack skilled hands? These are the answers I think we, as politicians, should give. Then we must stop talking about a higher retirement age and thus create security for the individual worker who is currently somewhat concerned. I also think many of you other people talk to many of them, and so do I every day. And I just have to say to everyone in this Chamber today: many of those who have worked hard out there for many years are very worried. There are many of them who know that they cannot run around dragging scaffolding, and what do I know for so many years yet, until they are well over 70 years old. They can't. And then it doesn't help that a government might, like they did last time, come up with a scheme where there are 100 people who can get a senior flexible job. If you really want to do that, you have to give some proper answers. We say 'no' to a higher retirement age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102152	There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102200	I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that when we come on the other side of 2022, we will see employment falling. The rapporteur mentioned that it is rising towards 2022, and that is also true, but on the other side of 2022 employment will start to decline again. And what we are discussing here is whether the retirement age should be increased, in other words whether the increase we have already agreed on should be phased into retirement age more rapidly by 2025.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102235	What I can see is that we're not gonna be missing hands... we're not gonna be missing hands. If we are to continue to generate more growth, something quite different must happen. Then we must ensure that the professional hands we are actually lacking are created, and that is precisely why the Social Democrats' answer is education and training. The answer to the worn-out ones, I know that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen may not have the understanding that I have of those statements, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen can come with us isn't just asking people, even if they're worn out and can't do it anymore, to work a little longer. That's not the answer. The answer, of course, is to create growth and provide the labour that is out there and to make it skilled and to make it more educated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102314	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102316	There was no answer to the question I asked. I do not know whether it is because the rapporteur is unable to do so, but I think the rapporteur is. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that when we come on the other side of 2022, with the rules already adopted now, we will see employment falling. So is it not sensible to start from what we are talking about, namely to phase in the increase in retirement age more quickly, i.e. in 2025, when we can see that we are going to see a decline in employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102359	I can give you a clear answer to the question, no matter how Mr. Joachim B.. Olsen thinks the numbers are. No, it is not sensible to increase the retirement age beyond what we have decided. That is not sensible, because there are some people who cannot be involved. There are some worn-out people who cannot keep up, and we must therefore take them into account as well. So the answer is: No, that's not sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102420	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102423	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for an energetic speech and for the very clear conclusion that the Social Democratic Party is rejecting the government's plans for a further increase in retirement age; I am very pleased about that. I also think that there were some good tactics in relation to the fact that we have to invest in education and have to look at the conditions of those who are worn out. So I look forward to having some good negotiations on this. What I just want to ask the rapporteur is that many of the arguments used by the rapporteur against a further increase in retirement age may well be directed at the increases in retirement age already adopted, which are, of course, that by 2030 the retirement age is 68 years... then you lose the right to speak; I very much regret that. My question concerns the fact that, with the current rules, a quarter of 3F members are not on the labour market when they reach the age of 60. So we already have a major problem with the current retirement age. What is the rapporteur's answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102531	What people do not know is that I was the one who tried to call Sørensen Finn so that he could cut down his speaking time a little; it is also a trick we can use here. But I would like to say that the answer is precisely that contained in the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Karsten Hønge read out and of which the Social Democracy is also part: that we have to take seriously that there are many worn-out people who have not worked long enough. That is why the former Minister for Employment of the Social Democratic Party Henrik Dam Kristensen actually set up a committee to look at these things. That is also why we want this to be seen in the proposal for adoption. And it is because we have to take seriously that there are people who are worn out. What are we gonna do about them? Do they need an education? We also have to keep looking at the working environment and all these things. So I'm gonna give mr. Finn Sørensen is right in saying that we have a challenge that we must face up to, and I think we are doing that by setting up that committee. I'm sure there are some things where sir... Finn Sørensen will say that you can just do that but it doesn't matter that a little more work is done on it, so we can get some really good suggestions on how we can do this forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102635	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102636	Now, in the last session, the Enhedslisten has put forward some concrete proposals on how we can improve the conditions of the people who are worn out. What I want to hold on to is that there, like Mr. Karsten Hønge pointed out is a huge inequality in the life expectancy of the various social groups with the things that have already been adopted around retirement age, and which is also based on the fact that it has to be raised; it is stated in the law that as the average life expectancy increases, retirement age has to be increased. What you fight with the Left about is when. So already with the current mechanisms we leave thousands of people on the platform, if that is the case. So my question really relates to the fact that the good arguments put forward by the rapporteur against the plans of the Left could just as well be directed against the increases in the retirement age that are and that is just what I am asking the rapporteur, whether it would not be possible to consider whether this was right and whether we should go in and change the law in relation to just following the average life expectancy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102741	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102743	I would say that I agree with the issue of inequality in life expectancy. That is why we are standing here and saying 'no' and agreeing that there will be some problems in the future. That is precisely why we say that we need to take this seriously. That is why we made the think tank that the current government unfortunately laid down. And that's also why we have to go back into this debate with regard to the working environment, with regard to education. We simply need to find out how we can ensure that these people can stay longer in the labour market. It is a discussion that the entire Folketing will have to take in the future. We are also doing so ourselves, who have taken a great deal of responsibility in relation to what Mr. Finn Sørensen points out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102818	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102823	Thank you. It wasn't supposed to be like that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen should avoid getting a question from someone who has been on the labour market longer than Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Leif Lahn Jensen has. I just wanted to know if the rapporteur does not agree with me that one of the most important factors in making people stay longer in the labour market is that employers actively go in and say to seniors: we cannot do without you; we want you to stay longer in the labour market. We can see today that in the places they do so, there are a lot of people who choose to stay longer on the labour market. Is it not true that this is one of the most important factors in having seniors to stay longer in the labour market, regardless of retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102905	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407102907	I am certainly glad that I also get questions from someone who has been on the labour market longer than I have. Not many people in here have, but there is one, and that's nice to hear. I just have to say that, yes, it is true that everyone must, of course, take an active part in making these people stay longer on the labour market. The employer must do that; the shop stewards out there must do it; we must do it in this regard in relation to training schemes. Right now we sit in the conciliation circle and talk actively about the working environment. I must commend the government for that. And that is also part of it, because with poor working conditions and wear and tear, they cannot stay longer in the labour market either. So I'm gonna give mr. Bent Bøgsted is absolutely right: everyone has to take an active part in this, the employer, oneself, the employee, the shop steward, the elected representatives all have to participate actively, because we have to get these people to work longer if they can. And if we can get them to have a really good working life without being worn out, everyone will be happy about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103009	Sir. Bent Bøgsted? No. Then it's mr. Klaus Markussen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103014	Actually, I don't think that sir... Joachim B. Olsen received an answer to his question as to whether the rapporteur can confirm that in the period after 2022 we will lack labour on the Danish labour market. Can the rapporteur confirm that this is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103030	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103032	I really don't care about confirming that. What matters to me is that this government is going to raise the retirement age. I strongly disagree with that. I do not think we take into account the fact that all the people, like Mr. Joachim B. Olsen apparently doesn't recognize all the people who get worn out and have been working hard since they were 17 years old... so being lost in this system. It may be that we have a government, we have a Left, we have a Liberal Alliance that is more concerned with economic instruments and the economy, but I am concerned about these people, and they are the ones who have my interest. That's why we say no to this, because it's not right and it's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103107	Sir. Klaus Markussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103110	Thank you. In addition to my first comment, I would like to say that there are a number of economists who believe and emphasise that the generation that is on the way forward will be the first in 200 years to look forward to a significantly lower standard of living than their parents' generation. Does the rapporteur think it is right that, with what the rapporteur says we should, we should leave an extra bill for our children and grandchildren?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103135	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103135-2	Neither do we if we do it right. If we make sure that there are good professional employees and that companies can have the employees they need, we will make sure we pay that bill. And then I have no doubt that we will solve these problems. That is also why I am saying that what the government is doing is completely wrong. But then I have to say to the rapporteur that there is also a sea of calculations that say that those who leave primary school do not have such a high life expectancy as those who have long higher education. This means that the people you hit are the people who have worked hard and worked hard since they were 17 years old. The academies haven't worked hard for so many years, haven't had that hard a life, so you hit the others instead. I don't think that's okay.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103216	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103231	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for raising this important debate. Because that's something that means a lot to a lot of people out there. There should be no doubt that in the Danish People's Party we find it a little out of place to come and say that now we want to bring forward the retirement age. Of course, we stand by the agreements made in relation to the welfare agreement, which says that every five years it will have to be discussed whether there is a basis for raising the pensionable age further, that is, if the parties are able to agree. That is what the agreement says, and the next time we meet about it is by 2020, and then we have to talk there. We do not see that there is any basis for raising the retirement age further, but what happens in 5, 10, 15 or 20 years I cannot, of course, stand here and guarantee anything about. However, one of the most important things for us is, of course, to have a pension scheme in which people themselves have some opportunity to decide whether they will be longer in the labour market. And, of course, it is also important to say that one of the most important players in this case is the employer. Because if the employer wants to speculate and say that a senior will probably only be one or two years longer on the labour market so that it is not worth investing on them, then it is clear that someone else will be hired instead. And that is where we should like the employer to play actively. Therefore, it is also gratifying to see that the Minister for Employment has been out saying to the letter A4 that it is very important that employers take that responsibility and get the seniors on the labour market going. I think that is the way to go, no matter what the retirement age is. For my part it is 67, for others it is 65 and 2030 it will be 68. However, it is very important to say that the opportunity for seniors to remain in the labour market must be present, and it must be the case that employers are actively involved. We know that then there are some who are worn out and can no longer be in it, and that is why we thought it was a little hopeless that there was an initiative from the government that showed that 100 people could get a senior flexible job. It must of course be based on how many people are worn out, and we must also bear in mind that the higher the retirement age, the more they come and need to get an early retirement pension or a senior flexible job. This is also linked to it, because it will always be the case that every time you talk about raising the retirement age, they will be the weakest who will suffer. If we then take the debate on what will happen in the future and what opportunities there are, I would say that I agree with the Minister that we should look at whether we can add new tools that make it more attractive for seniors to stay in the labour market and that there is a more relaxed approach. It may be that you have to talk about reduced hours, and it may also be that you have to talk about everything else in this regard. That is what we need to find out when we have to negotiate on it. When you look at what the seniors themselves want in terms of staying on the labour market, you can see that it is just perhaps putting their jobs into something else that is not so hard and stressful for their bodies. We can see that a carpenter or a bricklayer cannot continue to crawl around on roofs or do earth and concrete work over 70 or 75 years. It is clear that some changes are taking place and there is also a need to say in the workplace: how can you keep the seniors and convert them into another job? There we have seen several companies have great success in making a very good effort, creating jobs for seniors indoors and something where you use machines and things like that, and it has been a great success in terms of staying longer in the labour market. It's very important. But just because you are raising your retirement age, you get more labour, I think we will see, in return, that more and more people in the last two years before retirement are going to go on unemployment benefit, because employers may be dismissing them or they themselves choose to say that now they can no longer, even if their retirement age is really not for two years. And then we're gonna take two years on cash benefits, and we're gonna take part in the things that are now there. But that's not the point. You have to do it so that people stay active in the labour market and do not speculate on anything else. That is why the opportunity must really be there for those who are worn out. There have to be some things for senior pre-retirement and senior flexible jobs that seem to work. Then time has passed and I will read out on behalf of DF, V, LA and K. and the Radicals the following suggestions for adoption.The Danish Parliament finds that the Danes live longer and are healthier, while expressing concern for those who cannot work a full working life. employers are responsible for supporting seniors to stay longer in the labour market, including: by means of the arrangements that exist today. there are schemes to support seniors to stay longer in the labour market. seniors have the opportunity to earn a higher pension by staying longer in the labour market. to look at how we can strengthen the opportunities for those who can and will work longer to have better and more flexible opportunities for it. The Folketing urges the government to create calm and security about the retirement age of the Danes. to strengthen the opportunity for those who are worn out to withdraw from the labour market. V 70)
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103847	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. It's first, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103853	Thank you for an excellent speech by the rapporteur. I think it went very well until we came to the proposal for adoption. When Mr. Bent Bøgsted speaks very precisely about the fact that it is quite out of place to talk about a further postponement of retirement age and that the weakest are affected, and when Mr. Bent Bøgsted very clearly describes the consequences of simply raising the retirement age, what can the justification be for not voting for the Social Democrats' and SF's proposals for adoption? The text of the proposal for adoption makes it absolutely clear that the pensionable age should not be put into jeopardy in future budget negotiations. That should be what I think the rapporteur's speech should end with and that we can therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which states that they do not need to sit out there and be afraid of what can be done in the night negotiations over in the Ministry of Finance. But I just didn't catch that clutch. Because until we came to the end, I was basically in agreement with everything Mr. Bent Bøgsted said, why not support the proposal for adoption which provides security?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103953	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407103955	I think sir... Karsten Hønge forgets something, because the matter of sitting over in the Ministry of Finance and agreeing that the retirement age is now being raised does not go because you are bound by the welfare settlement of 2006, after which the parties have to take it up every five years and see if there is a basis for raising the pensionable age. The Danish People's Party is bound by it, and it is also bound by it, as Social Democracy has also written it. That is why we cannot simply sit in a budget debate and say: we are going to cut the retirement age a little. That is also why the Danish People's Party is resisting, because we just do not see that there is any basis for raising the retirement age now and here. We can't. And with regard to bringing it forward in order to provide tax relief and what else money is needed for, it should not be the case that it is just a screw that you can screw on and that, if you need some money, you just raise the retirement age. That's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104052	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104053	Should I understand that, although the Danish People's Party will not vote in favour of this proposal for adoption, the rapporteur here guarantees that the Danish People's Party will not, under any circumstances, agree to postpone the retirement age in future negotiations? Perhaps, then, in one sense or another, we can say that it will live up to the same as if the proposal for adoption were adopted. But Mr. Bent Bøgsted here is a completely nagging guarantee that the Danish People's Party will not vote in favour and will not enter into agreements that postpone retirement age beyond what is in the reforms already adopted?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104127	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104128	I believe that we must refrain from giving too many guarantees in this Chamber. But I can guarantee that when negotiations are convened in the welfare circle, the Danish People's Party will participate as it should when a conciliation group is convened for a meeting. If the government chooses to convene a meeting in 2020 I don't know if it does... that's where we're gonna talk about whether or not the retirement age should be withdrawn. The Danish People's Party will have to say what we think, and we do not think it should be raised. But what it looks like in 10-15 years, I can't say anything about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104207	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104209	I have to say to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Bent Bøgsted, that this is not the welfare agreement we are talking about today. Our proposal for adoption also states that it is not the welfare agreement that we are talking about; it is the Government's desire to raise the retirement age that we are talking about, and that is not all the other things that Mr. Bent Bøgsted's talking about. The chairman of the Danish People's Party, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, has said: I can reject this idea that we should raise the retirement age again for everyone, because I share the views that have already been expressed that there are a lot of people who are worn out and who need to be able to retire. So can we make it clear once and for all that we are not talking about the welfare agreement, we are talking about the government's desire to increase the retirement age? Does the Danish People's Party reject it, or does the Danish People's Party accept it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104303	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104304	We say no to that, and we have done it all the time. As far as the increase in retirement age is concerned, where they would bring forward the entry into force of the 68 years, we have said no to it. I have said no to that, and Kristian Thulesen Dahl has said no to it, and we are also saying no to it today. I hope that was the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104323	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104326	It was fine. Then I just need one more answer, then everyone's happy I'm anyway. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also says that raising the retirement age will not solve the challenge of labour shortages in some areas over the next few years. That's what we hear from many of the bourgeoisies. So can we also get the rapporteur to confirm that with the retirement age it will not solve the challenges of labour shortages in selected sectors, i.e. that this is not really necessary at all? Can I also hear the rapporteur say that what the government is doing here is not necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104402	It was a little the same as I asked Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen asked him to confirm. In order for us to have seniors to stay longer in the labour market, this requires it to work so that individuals can see the benefits of staying longer in the labour market, and it also requires employers to play along with and make greater efforts to get older people to stay in the labour market. And it is not about raising the retirement age; it is simply about looking at how to make the tools work. It may well be that some new tools are needed to make them stay on the labour market for longer or to give them a positive approach to staying on the labour market for longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104452	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104455	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted said that DF cannot see any basis for raising the retirement age further. But the basis is, of course, that the assumptions contained in the agreement made in 2006 do not stand up. So, the expectation that one had of how life expectancy would develop turned out to be wrong, and the extremely positive thing has happened that life expectancy has increased much more and much faster than one predicted. And when the pre-conditions are not found to be right, is it not reasonable to adjust the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104547	Now it's the case that sir... Joachim B. Olsen looks very much at what the wise men are saying, and if I remember correctly, now the paper is lying on my chair, then the wise men have said that there is no basis for raising the retirement age further, that is, what was in the 2025 plan. There is no basis for that. I do not think we are going to find ourselves in a situation where there is such a shortage of labour. I think we can make it work, so employers do something more to keep seniors. We can see that there is an increase in the number of seniors who remain on the labour market for some time. They want to stay there if they have the opportunity. So I don't believe in the lack of manpower, but if it is because Mr. Joachim B. Olsen thinks he's missing some money for something, so I can follow Mr. B. Olsen. Joachim B. Olsen. But this is not the approach we have in the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104645	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Olsen, can't I have the other question? ) Yes, go ahead. I'll be so happy when people push in, because then I can see it from up here. Here you go, sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104700	Fair enough. But when you make some projections and you make some agreements on the basis of some projections and those projections prove to be wrong, isn't it a matter of due diligence that you change and adjust the agreements you have made? Well, sir will. Bent Bøgsted probably do in his own economy if he bases his economy on some expected revenue and expenditure and then it turns out that spending is going to be even higher than predicted. Then you change your behavior, you change your finances. And that's just the same thing we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104747	Well, now that's the way it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, that we in the Danish People's Party believe that the projection that led the government to move forward the retirement age by 1⁄2 years at a time is wrong. Well, that's what the Danish People's Party thinks, and it may be that we disagree with the Liberal Alliance. Then we disagree with the Liberal Alliance, but we believe that the approach to it is wrong. And that is why, of course, we will not be helping to bring forward the retirement age. I regret that we do not agree, but we are not on that point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104814	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104817	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted. I'm glad to hear that. Bent Bøgsted's concern for those who entered the labour market at an early age and who cannot stand to work until they can retire in the distant future. It would have been nice if the Danish People's Party had remembered this when it helped to destroy the early retirement scheme, because it was precisely targeted at the group of people that several rapporteurs have mentioned here today. I think there are a lot of people out there who would like a clear guarantee from the Danish People's Party. I think that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen asked some very good questions. I do not think that we are fully in line. I would like to ask the following question: can we have a guarantee that during this parliamentary term the Danish People's Party will not contribute to any further increase in the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104912	As I said before, this is not something that is being made in a financial law agreement, because an increase in the retirement age, as we see it, requires that the parties involved in the welfare settlement agree on it if the retirement age is to be raised. The next meeting is in 2020. We had in 2015, and the next meeting is in 2020. It's after this parliamentary term. I need to be careful about giving guarantees. We've seen that things can go terribly wrong. However, I do not see that there would be any new meeting until 2020. That is what the agreement on welfare reform says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104951	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407104953	Thank you. Now I did not ask the rapporteur to look in some crystal ball for who is calling meetings when. I just want to know: what is the position of the Danish People's Party in this matter? Can we have a guarantee that the Danish People's Party will not contribute to a further increase in the retirement age in any agreements concluded during this parliamentary term? I think there are a lot of people who would like a crystal-clear answer to that in the light of the somewhat foggy answers we have received from the rapporteur so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105023	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105025	As I've said before, sir. Finn Sørensen not me as rapporteur to stand and give a guarantee on something down here in the Chamber. You have to stay away from that. However, as I said before, we will not be helping to raise the retirement age by the five years proposed by the government. We don't want to. The next conciliation meeting of the welfare reform group will be in 2020. That is what I know at this stage. I don't know if the government's gonna call some meetings about something at some point. I don't know anything about that, and I don't know about that either. Finn Sørensen knows something about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105104	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105108	It will then be almost something fluffy something to ask about it, but I have looked at the text of the proposal for adoption that you have. Does the penultimate sentence that says about creating peace and security about the retirement age of the Danes mean that these four parties agree that nothing should be done during this period?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105129	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105131	At least that is what we in the Danish People's Party want seniors to have a clear knowledge that nothing happens to their retirement age. I shall not be able to comment on how the other parties interpret that text, but they have, of course, endorsed the text.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105154	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105155	When I make texts with others, I usually make sure that we agree on the content, instead of just saying that we can easily come up with some words, and then we pretend to agree. I guess it's about creating an agreement, and that's why it's interesting to know what Mr. Bent Bøgsted will in the coming period. Will Mr. Bent Bøgsted enter into negotiations to increase the retirement age before or after an election?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105221	There is no indication that we are going to have to negotiate an increase in the retirement age. What we are going to have to negotiate is how we can ensure that there is a better opportunity for seniors to stay in the labour market and how we get employers to go in more actively and ensure that people have the opportunity to stay in their jobs. That's what we're gonna be talking about. But the other thing I don't have a feeling I'm supposed to be talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105249	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105252	I am following this debate with interest, in particular the part of the debate which some people are discussing about the need for such an economic necessity as to make it necessary to adjust the pension conditions and retirement agreements already agreed. So I would actually just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the wise men in their recent financial report ■ I am quite sure that the rapporteur can confirm that, although the rapporteur does not have the figures on the platform ■ have assessed the fiscal policy in Denmark to be, quote: tolerable, and that their assessment was that one should be careful about making short-term economic concessions, that is that the challenge is not in the long term, but if one goes in and makes tax cuts for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105359	Now I can't remember literally what it says in the paper I have lying down in my seat, but I think it's quite so if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105408	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105410	This is not bad remembered by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105417	I don't know if it takes a comment. No. Thank you. Then there are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Klaus Markussen, Left. And I just have to say that the system doesn't work, so I stand up 10 seconds before the speaking time is over. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105433	Thank you for that, President. As the Minister mentioned earlier, I think we should start by welcoming the healthier, the healthier and the longer the Danes live, the better both for our personal well-being and for society. However, this means that the regulation of age limits for withdrawal from the labour market has fallen behind. Living time is now higher than expected when the welfare agreement was adopted in 2006. So if we do nothing, we have the prospect of a huge deficit in the so-called structural balance, which means that the older generation can look forward to more years of retirement than the young generation, and we in the Left do not really think that is fair. I know that the answer from both the SF and other parts of the opposition is that we should completely stop talking about labour market reforms, but frankly: it is not responsible. I fully agree with the majority of economists who clearly say that we need to pull on the work clothes and make new moves that make the Danes work longer. During a full working life the Danes have 27.8 years of full-time employment, but our Swedish neighbours have 31.4 years, and looking at the average for the 35 OECD countries, it is 30.1 years of full-time employment. This means that the idea that we Danes work more than everyone else simply does not hold water. We work over a whole working life less than those with which we usually compare ourselves. This testifies to the fact that we have structural challenges in our labour market, and this shows that we should not shut down labour market reforms. We must do more if we are to ensure the cohesion of our society in the future too, and be able to afford the welfare that we want and that we all benefit from. In the debate on retirement age, I often hear parts of the opposition touring around with the claim that the Left has no eyes for the people who are worn out. Nothing could be more wrong. In fact, I think that such assertions only help to make the debate both unspeakable and irresponsible. Of course, we are not asking people who are worn out to stay on the labour market. But I also think we should stick to the joy that the health of seniors has been significantly improved over recent years, and this, among other things. This is due to healthier habits, but it is also due to a labour market with less physical wear and better opportunity to organise work for the individual. This, of course, also affects the employment rate among seniors, which has also been increasing. As recently as the other day, the Labour Movement's Employment Council came up with an analysis showing that there are significantly more skilled seniors who stay in the work clothes after they reach 65 years of age. I think we should welcome that. And yes, there are people who cannot get back into the labour market, but today they have very good opportunities to retire, and so it must continue to be. If you have had a long and hard working life, you must, of course, have the opportunity to withdraw from the labour market if you are worn out. This can be done, for example, with the old-age pension scheme and, as the Minister has also mentioned, we see here that nine out of ten applying for it are awarded it. In my view, this shows that the scheme is working. In addition to this scheme, it is also worth mentioning the flex-job scheme that we have made more inclusive with the reform, and this means that people who are only able to work to a limited extent now have better opportunities to maintain a link with the labour market. This is a good arrangement, and we also see that several seniors are using it. But let us make one thing clear: it is a scaremongering when the left is touring over and over again with claims that the Left does not give a thought to worn-out people. At no point in the debate on retirement age have we asked worn-out people to work any longer. On the contrary, for decades we have been helping to create a flexible pension system in which there are good opportunities to withdraw if the body says no, and we should not change that. But we dare take responsibility. We are facing structural problems in the labour market that we, as responsible politicians, have to solve. In the coming years, very large generations are retiring and relatively small generations are entering the labour market, and so we can look forward to many years of large public deficits. It will end up being a bill that the next generation will pay if we do not ask those who can stay a little longer on the labour market to do so. Therefore, the government's policy is both an expression of political responsibility and due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105949	Thank you. Then there are a number of brief comments. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407105954	Sir. Klaus Markussen mentioned the word scaremongering from the left in connection with the pension debate. Well, that scaremongering, sir. Klaus Markussen then immediately lay down by at least in the defined corner here giving a guarantee that you have no plans to raise the retirement age, in addition to what has already been agreed. So if the Left and the rapporteur are sorry about the scaremongering, he can put it down by creating security right here and now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110018	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110020	You want me to understand that as a question?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110027	There is a brief comment again to Mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110030	That's just as well the most surprising answer I've got yet. Oh. The rapporteur simply did not understand the question. If the rapporteur thinks that there is a scaremongering campaign, why not put the scaremongering down immediately by closing that corner, by guaranteeing that the retirement age will not be raised by another 1⁄2 years? In this context, I would just like to say that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance have made statements here in March that there will be various initiatives in the area of withdrawal during the spring. Does this mean that there will not be an increase in the retirement age beyond what has already been agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110110	Thank you. There was a question. I think that this is a scaremongering campaign when we keep pushing the same arguments, despite the fact that the government has not put forward a concrete proposal in this way. It is true that the government's basis clearly states that it is the government's policy to put forward a proposal which opens up the possibility for those who can stay long on the labour market to do so in the light of the arguments that I have put forward, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110142	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110145	Scary campaign, says Mr. Klaus Markussen. I'll explain to you, sir. Klaus Markussen, what a scaremongering is. It's when you keep telling people that the next generation has to pay for something. That's bullshit. If you read the report of the economic wise men, it is clear that the Danish economy is viable. Try to taste the word: passable. This means that the money is under control because a large number of agreements have already been made, including: the 2006 reform. And if it is the case that the Left believes that there is a bill to be paid by the next generation, then it is of course because the Left is planning to spend the money on something else before then, i.e. to give some tax relief. Hey, that warns the economic wise men too. Well, then, sir. Klaus Markussen doesn't explain where this next-generation thing is supposed to come from? Where is the factual, professional argument for that, in other words, in addition to the fact that the Left continues to repeat something which is clearly a scaremongering campaign?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110252	Thank you. I think the campaign continues with that question. But I'll be happy to answer. It is, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we are in a situation where we will lack labour on the Danish labour market. And then you can either choose not to do anything, as I understand there are other parties proposing or having preference for, or we can make a solution in good time before you have your back to the wall before we are pressed. And frankly, I think that is both honest talk and timely care and responsible policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110334	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110336	Now, of course, the Social Democratic Party has proposed a bottleneck reform here and now, but the government will not be interested enough in that either. You will try to solve the problems sometime in the future. But it will be the case that if you extend the retirement age, it is something that lies ahead in the future. - Sir... At least Klaus Markussen didn't see when Mr. Markus... Klaus Markussen will not deal with the economic wise men's report, confirm that it is the case that the labour supply in Denmark is going to rise quite significantly towards 2025 with the reforms already adopted, and that therefore there is no need for the Easter egg from hell, which the government, the Prime Minister and Mr. Klaus Markussen suggests?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110419	I must take clear action on this point. It is incredibly unheard of to swear in the Chamber in this way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110426	Thank you. I repeat what I said earlier, namely that I think this is a continuation of the scaremongering which Mr. Benny Engelbrecht now also makes himself an exponent too. I can only regret that. We are some who want to work on this in a serious and forward-looking way, to solve the structural challenges facing the kingdom in good time, so that we do not again experience solutions at the last moment with our backs to the wall.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110455	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110459	Then I have to continue along these lines, because, as I said in the rapporteur's speech, we have a government that has no idea at all what is up and down, what is to be done and what is sensible. Everyone else in this country and everyone else in here does, but not the government. Now I'm told it's because you need hands. The Treasury's own accounting boys have said that by 2025 there will be 168,000 more hands. It is also apparent from the government's thick report on Danish economy that there are available hands to fill new jobs. I've got to tell Mr. Knox. Klaus Markussen: There are plenty of hands left to take off. Then why is it that you do it? Why is it that we continue with the scaremongering that the worn-out should help pay for something that is actually not right? Why should the worn out help to pay for future tax cuts? Because that is essentially what this is all about. Can't the government and the Left just admit it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110554	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110557	Thank you. Then it came. I said loud and clear in my rapporteur's speech that there is absolutely no question of people who are worn out working any longer. What is the policy of the government, and what is the policy of the Left, is that if you are worn out and the body says off, you should not, of course, be forced to stay longer in the labour market. We have excellent arrangements to ensure that this does not happen, and that is not something that is part of this discussion at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110634	I just want to say again that what the Left comes with, I sometimes think is a complete joke, because when you came up with a 2025 plan, the way you wanted to solve this was to give 100 people, I repeat, 100 people the opportunity to get a senior flexible job. It's the Left's answer that you want to help these worn-out people. Do you think the rapporteur, sir? Klaus Markussen, even that an ultraultral government will come up with a better solution than the one with the 100 people? Does the rapporteur really believe that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110711	I can at least say quite soberly that the government we have has a bid for serious, responsible and forward-looking responses to the challenges facing the empire and the structural challenges facing our labour market and our economy. And frankly, I think that is both honest talk, responsible policy and due diligence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110736	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110740	Thank you. I do not think my colleague really got an answer to the question of what economic necessity it is that makes the government want the Danes to work longer. I am an elderly rapporteur, I come around many nursing homes, and I should like to greet many of the staff there and say a nice no to that, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht called an Easter egg from hell not for hell, I'll just say, there wasn't a band. So I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to reply again to what economic necessity it is that the government will ask the Danes and the worn-out, who already have significantly fewer years with the grandchildren after they retire, to work longer. This is a rather violent political proposal, and therefore there will have to be a better reason than to give relief in the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110823	I just have to say that whether it's the higher or the lower powers, you call on where you think they come from, it's not allowed in the Assembly Hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110832	Thank you. Well, we are looking into a future where in the coming years there will be very large generations retiring and relatively small generations entering the labour market. It does, of course, make financial impressions and has economic significance. And that is precisely why the government is putting forward a proposal that those who can will have to work longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110909	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407110911	Well, I understand that the rapporteur is having such a little difficulty finding the words, because I think it is now very clear that there is no urgent economic necessity here. What the rapporteur outlines is, of course, things that we have taken into account, and that is why I am not going to bore any more in it. I think it is very clear that there is not a good answer, that it is a political wish and not an economic necessity that drives the government. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur to reveal how much longer the government wants the Danes to work, because that is something that concerns a great many Danes. We can see this from the large petition that is under way, and we can see it from that over 80%. by the Danes rejecting this. It's something that creates an incredibly great insecurity out there. That is why I believe that the government owes it to the Danes to become much more concrete, and the rapporteur of the Left, as a representative of a government party, could do so here today, namely tell us how much longer it is that the government wants the Danes to work. I do not think it is unreasonable at all to give that answer to the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111005	I don't miss words at all. I'd gotten dry in my throat. I think it is a perfectly reasonable question which is being asked, and therefore I am quite sure that this discussion will continue, since we will have a proposal from the government, according to what the government programme says. And then, of course, we will have all these specific and specific detailed questions in place. However, as far as security and insecurity are concerned, I just have to say that it does not contribute to security when there are parties advocating not to recognise that there is a challenge that needs to be solved and resolved now, in good time before we have our back on the wall.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111050	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111056	There are two points on which I would like to ask the rapporteur to take a position. Today, all the older people who can work longer. We don't have to do anything about that. This happens all by itself, especially if employers make it attractive and flexible to be older in a workplace, and most employers do. So it happens all by itself, you can see it on the statistics, so there is no reason to talk about that we need more to work. It's coming by itself. People want to work longer, those who can, and there is nothing to stop it now. Then there is the untruth that the rapporteur came to say that there is less physical wear and tear or I do not know whether this is an untruth. I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur disagrees with the Minister for Employment, who only last week, when we were also down here to discuss the 2020 plan on working conditions, explained to us that the muscle and skeletal loads in the Danish workplaces have increased by 15%. What is really the rapporteur's talk about the fact that there is less physical wear and tear, or the Minister for Employment's figures from the report we have received?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111208	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111209	I do not think there is any conflict in these two statements. There are a lot of facets in this debate, there are a lot of perspectives on causes and reasons for either wanting or having to withdraw from the labour market. So I do not see that there is any conflict in the two statements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111236	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111238	I understand that the rapporteur admits that there is no less physical wear and tear today. There is actually greater physical wear and tear by virtue of tempo etc. Then there is something else, and that is that we need labour market reform, and that is what is needed in the area of health and safety at work. We waste millions of hours of work every year, because 60,000 people have accidents, are suffering from occupational diseases. If we did something about it, we'd have an incredible amount of extra labor. We could save employers a lot of money and, by the way, they damaged a lot of suffering and society for a lot of spending on the health system. 64 billion kr. Every year we waste on this. Why don't the Left and the government get to it instead? Well, that's perfectly obvious. It's much, much better. It's a cheek egg to start with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111332	I do not, in fact, disagree with the message if the message is that this should not only be about age but also about working conditions. It's not like we're only playing some of the piano's keys. It is very important that we play on all the piano keys. As I see it, this is both a question of age, what we are discussing today, and it is very much related to the important work and the important discussions and discussions that we also have on working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111412	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111416	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur say perhaps not quite verbatim, but I understood that it is not because the Left wants to force people who cannot to stay longer on the labour market. But that is just what the Left did when a drastic reduction in the early retirement scheme was introduced, which means that in practice it cannot be used by the target group as originally intended. This is also what the Left did when, together with the RS SF government, they helped to make a drastic reduction in early retirement, the possibility of receiving early retirement. It's just to mention a few clear examples. But what I would like to ask the rapporteur is: what does it mean when you are now a co-sponsor of a proposal for adoption, which states that the Folketing calls on the government to bring about calm and security for the retirement age of the Danes? Does this mean that the Left has abandoned the plans for a further increase in retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111516	Here you go, then it's the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111517	This means that it is important that we resolve the challenges we have in a timely manner. That means it's important to tell you what your policy is. I think the Left has done that, and I think that the Left and the other governing parties have made that clear in the government programme, namely that it is government policy that those who can should work longer. I think it gives security that you say up front what is the government's policy and what you stand for and do not create the impression that there is no challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111601	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111603	Thank you. I think I asked a very clear question: what does it mean when the Left writes that the Folketing calls on the government to create calm and security about the retirement age of the Danes? Does this mean that the Left has abandoned its plans for a further increase in the retirement age, or is it being maintained? Surely, yes or no can be said to do so. So can I not now get a clear answer to this very, very simple question?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111629	- Sir, you can. Finn Sørensen well. It is the policy of the Left to create calm and security about our retirement age by telling us clearly what our policy is. We have done so in the past, we have done so now in the government programme, and we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111650	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111654	Thank you. It's just in the wake of Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen's question. You do the opposite because you do not create peace and security for any people who sit out there in the whole country, especially those with short education and low wages, who have entered the labour market at the age of 16, 17 or 18. You do exactly the opposite. What I think we still need to clarify in this debate is why, in the government and in the Left, it is believed that there will now be a higher retirement age at an earlier stage than otherwise agreed. It is not because we are in need of labour, on the contrary, in reality. We already have one of the highest employment rates in this country, and the labour we might be missing is a skilled, specialised workforce. So why? What is the cause?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111748	Thank you. I think I explained this in my rapporteur's speech, namely that we are in the situation where we are looking into a future in which large generations will leave the labour market to retire and relatively small generations will enter the labour market. This is based both on labour market policy and on economics, which we cannot ignore.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111819	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111821	However, all these problems have long since been resolved, as we have already solved them with the globalisation agreement back in the mid-00s, and it has even been dealt with further through a number of reforms, both in the then left-wing government and also in the SR government. We do not have anything similar to an acute shortage of labour. We, on the other hand, have economists, labour market policy experts who say that we have long since exhausted all respectable, responsible tools in terms of expanding the supply of labour and, in this way, advise to the very opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111856	I believe that the key word in the question is really 'aktut', because what it is all about is that the structural challenges that exist must be met in good time, i.e. to bring together labour market, employment and pension policies in such a way that we can adjust, adapt and ensure that we have the necessary labour on the Danish labour market in good time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111927	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111931	Thank you very much. I don't really think so, sir. Finn Sørensen was given a very clear answer to his question, so I would just like to give the rapporteur the opportunity to make it quite clear: has the Left dropped the extension of the retirement age further increased the retirement age at an earlier stage than planned?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407111951	No, the Left has not dropped that in its policy. What I am trying to do here is to give nuanced answers instead of these kind of yes/no answers. And the reality is that we create peace and security around the retirement age of the Danes by clearly, clearly, honestly and solidly explaining what is the policy of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407112021	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407112023	I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the sentence states that those who can must work more, or it states that those who can must have the opportunity to work more. There's a big difference. I believe they have the opportunity today, but they are not forced to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407112048	I am now told that Mr. Christian Juhl has made brief comments once again. Is that correct? All right, that's the question. We are grateful to the rapporteur of the Left, and the next in line is Mr. Finn Sørensen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Shout: It was well tried Yes, it was well tried. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407112124	Thank you. A great deal of thanks to the SF for calling this debate, which I think concerns the whole population. I cannot bear to think that that is how many people think when they hear politicians and economists talk about an ever-increasing retirement age, and unfortunately many of those who think that way are right. Large groups are forced out of the labour market because of wear, stress and accidents at work long before they reach retirement age or are forced out because they simply do not need their qualifications. Just a few facts to support it: a quarter of 3F members have left the labour market before they reach the age of 60. They are on early retirement or have died. A quarter of FOA members do not expect them to be able to stay on the labour market until the age of 60. About 40%. by LO members do not expect them to remain in their current job until they have to retire. These figures illustrate that we have a very big problem already with the current retirement age of 65 years. That is why Enhedslisten has also voted against the proposals to raise it. At the same time, the security of these workers has been undermined by tightening up the benefits, early retirement, early retirement, flexible work, sickness benefit, rehabilitation and cash benefits, so that the important question arises: what are these people going to live on when they get out of the labour market until they can retire? In the Enhedslisten we find it shameful that we offer them such an end to a long working life. At the same time, there is a huge inequality in life expectancy. The lowest-paid and lowest-educated quarter of men simply live 10 years shorter than the best-paid and best-educated quarter on average, of course. Those who entered the labour market at an early age simply have fewer good years as seniors, where they can enjoy life, and then the natural question arises: why should this large group in society not have the right to as many good senior years as highly educated and highly paid? So yes, it is wrong, as it is, already with the current retirement age. How, then, is it not to be done when the agreed increases in retirement age come through? As you know, a majority in this House has decided that it should rise to 68 years by 2030. This is on the basis of the so-called welfare agreement between the bourgeois parties and the Social Democratic Party, where they agreed on the principle that the retirement age should be continuously increased in line with the increase in average life expectancy. That principle has even been written into the National Pensions Act. If this happens, it means that a person aged 30 can only retire when she reaches the age of 72 1⁄2 and that an 18-year-old can only retire when he is 74. On top of that, the government will raise the retirement age by another 1⁄2 years, precisely with reference to the provisions of the law. It's been the drop that made the cup float over. In a short time, 3F has collected well over 200,000 signatures against a higher retirement age. The majority here at Christiansborg is therefore completely in conflict with the majority of the population. Measurements show that a clear majority wants a lower retirement age and the possibility of earlier retirement. It's time for the majority in here to wake up. We simply need to give concrete answers to the many who are rightly concerned and angry about an ever-increasing retirement age. We will have ample opportunity to discuss this in the coming months. The Enhedslisten has recently come up with a proposal on the right to early retirement conditional on the number of years on the labour market and a membership of the A-box. We have called for another question debate and tabled a motion for a resolution. But today we are then discussing and again thanking the SF for raising the government's plans for further raising the retirement age. I think it is encouraging that the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have abandoned the government's plans. That's a good start. But I think, particularly in the light of today's debate with the Danish People's Party and for that matter also the rapporteur of the Left, that there is some uncertainty as to what the position is in the Danish People's Party. I would like this debate to lead to a clear and simple majority in favour of a clear rejection of the government's plans. I note that the Social Democratic Party and the SF have made a proposal. There's a lot of good bets in that. That is also what comes from the alternative. I just think it is important that we try to get together on a very clear and clear text, where hopefully we can clarify where the Danish People's Party is in this discussion. Therefore, Enhedslisten proposes the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is great dissatisfaction in the population with higher retirement age and urges the government to drop its proposal for further increases in retirement age. • V 71).
ParlaMint-DK_20170407112625	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. There is no wish for short remarks, so we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur and move on to the next in line, which is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407112640	Thank you for that, President. When the pension was introduced in 1957, the retirement age was 67. At that time, you could expect approx. 4 years on a retirement pension. By the way, as far as I remember, there was about 20 per cent. by the Danes who refused to accept it because they did not think that you should be supported by the public if you did not have any need for it. I don't think that's how we think in Denmark anymore. Since then, the retirement age has been reduced to 65, and with the current rules the retirement age will again be 67 when we reach 2025. When we need to do something extraordinary, that is to say to phase in the increase, the increase already adopted, in the retirement age more quickly, it is because there has been an extraordinary development. When the retirement age agreement was drawn up in 2006, when a broad majority, including S and DF, agreed that it should be based on an average retirement age of 141⁄2 years, this was done on the basis of a projection of life expectancy, which has been completely overtaken by reality. The development that was then expected to take 50 years has ended up taking only 10 years. This means that the limitation on adjustment, i.e. that the retirement age can only be increased by one year every five years, is now very important. The consequence of not adjusting the agreement is that we will spend more resources than provided in the coming years to ensure that a few vintages get extremely many retirement years while all others will gradually have fewer years of retirement. For example, are you... a 27-year-old bricklayer, you will see that colleagues retiring in the coming years will have about 19 years of retirement, while you will be able to look forward to considerably fewer. I think that is a deeply unreasonable priority for society's resources. Instead of using all the resources to send a lot of healthy people to some very long pensions, one could try to solve all sorts of other social problems, including perhaps in relation to better efforts for those who have a need, those who are sick, those who are not healthy. It is, of course, quite positive that life expectancy increases explosively for all groups of society, especially as is the case that it also manifests itself in several good years of good health. But this positive development should not be made a problem by not adjusting the legislation accordingly. When we come on the other side of 2022, we will see that the number of Danes on transfer will increase and the number of Danes on the labour market will decrease. This development will be reinforced if we do not phase in the rise in retirement age more quickly. If we do nothing, it has a price, then it has a cost, no one can deny it. The cost will be that there will be fewer resources for other things, including health, education, police, defence and yes, also for lower taxes and thus higher disposable income and higher standard of living for employees. Therefore, the only thing responsible is to make adjustments to the retirement age, to phase in the increase faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113039	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113044	I noticed that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned the 20 per cent who apparently once should have said no to the retirement pension, and Mr. Joachim B. Olsen said it's not like that anymore. I have to confirm that. Today, all wealthy people are happy to accept gifts from the right when they provide tax relief and cheaper sports cars. It's not like that with that morality! There is something that it might be interesting to get a precise answer to, because as I understand it, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen and Mr. Bent Bøgsted agreed on a proposal for adoption, but I also understand that there is a clear disagreement as to whether it contains a guarantee that there will be no work on an increase in the retirement age or whether there, just like Mr Bøgsted, there will be an increase in the pensionable age. Joachim B. Olsen mentions the need for an increase in retirement age. Do you agree on this paper, or do you only agree that the black is the letters, but not the contents of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113138	I would like to take a bet with all the members of parliament in this Chamber that there will be a change in the retirement age. What we have adopted will be changed. We will have to speed up the phasing-in of the increase we have adopted. I certainly cannot guarantee that this will happen now, but I think it should happen now. But that is going to happen, and I bet there are socialists, perhaps some of those who are sitting in the Chamber who are going to vote for it one day. I think history has shown that when we see that conditions change, that the projections we have made do not hold up, we actually take responsibility at some point and adjust the legislation. That's gonna happen in this area, too. I bet you $1,000. with Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen says that if he sits in the Folketing for many years, he will also add votes to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113250	I need to know if the questioner has a question number 2, because the button has not been pressed. There is now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113256	I usually like Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's ideological flexibility, but what is the point of concluding an agreement on a proposal for adoption with the Danish People's Party, which, in the rapporteur's view, is so openly ideologically lax? This is clearly being interpreted by the rapporteur of a party which is considerably larger than the Liberal Alliance, in the sense that this is a guarantee that you will not touch the retirement age. Now the rapporteur stands for a government party and says that it is a guarantee of the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113327	I am not sure whether that is what is being referred to in the question of ensuring security for the retirement age. So what do you put in it? I put it in the way of making the changes that are necessary in good time so that people can adapt to it. No one has a desire not to do so. However, I am quite convinced that if it is not now, during this period of government, it will happen at some point, because developments are such that we should, of course, take due care, as a change in predictions suggests, that we do, namely phase in the increase in retirement age more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113413	Thank you. For the sake of good order, I should point out that if you want to make another brief comment, you have to press the button. The next question is Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113428	Thank you. I'm gonna have to challenge sir. Joachim B. Olsen on his own statement: There is no reason to believe that because you are 3F or unskilled, you are more worn out than others on the labour market. When I hear such a statement, I can of course think that I do not believe that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen has ever talked to these people or been out on the labour market. Now I know that sir... Joachim B. Olsen likes numbers and numbers and would like to talk about numbers. But can the rapporteur not confirm that there are, in fact, a great many figures that say that unskilled people do not live as long as those who have high education and that, therefore, they may also become more worn-out and therefore not be able to cope with such a high retirement age as everyone else? We simply cannot take them into this; they will have a problem. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113523-2	I should like to express my gratitude: the phrase that comes from the debate was too harshly worded. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has probably tried to be in the debate, and there is not much time to reply, and I replied what is most accurate, namely that when you look at the difference in life expectancy between different educational groups, you cannot attribute the differences in wear and tear. You can't do that. We know a lot about it, and we know that 60-70 percent. of the reason for the difference in life expectancy between people with long education and those with short education or no education at all is the lifestyle. Two factors account for 60-70 per cent. of the difference: it is smoking and it is alcohol. That's what makes it a big difference. In addition, there are differences in diet and exercise. But, of course, some people are getting worn out. There are also 3Fs that get worn out. It would be strange to say otherwise. But when we look at the differences there are, it is not right to attribute them wear and tear. There is simply no evidence of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113638	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113639	However, the rapporteur does not understand at all that there is a difference between one who goes out of primary school at the age of 17 and is unskilled and working until he is 70 years old. It is 53 years on the labour market and then one who takes a high academic education, a djøf'er and all sorts of other fine things, and enters the labour market at the age of 30. He's only gonna be there for 40 years. This means that the unskilled person who has worked hard since he was 17 has 13 years more on the labour market than the academic, whom we assume will only come out when he is 30 years old. Does the rapporteur honestly believe that the 13 years mean nothing in terms of wear and tear, that nothing in terms of wear and tear, and that even if you have worked for 53 years and therefore 13 years more than the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113722	The 13 years can mean something. There's a lot of ways to see this. One way and we also know a lot about seeing it is to say that the academics start later on in the labour market, that is correct. On the other hand, they work several hours when they are on the labour market, so if you look at the total working time when you reach retirement age, it is equal. Of course it is not if you make it up this year, but you do it up to the total working hours. But it is not true when it is claimed that the differences in life expectancy are due to a longer period of time in the labour market. That is simply not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113757	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113800	After all, it is a very, very ideological debate to go with Joachim B. Olsen and the Liberal Alliance, because you can, of course, of that, sir. Joachim B. Olsen says, and what comes from the Liberal Alliance, clearly hears that this is the fault of the individual, because you can just stop smoking and you can stop drinking. But when we look at what it is for any working life, the people with the shortest education or those who are unskilled, will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen didn't acknowledge that it matters how hard a physical, mental sled has been during the working day, because if you can see the tour of the gym, or if you can see the quit smoking course when you get home? Recognizes Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is not at all that there is anything else at stake than just the spine of the individual or the lack of the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407113842	There are certainly many things at stake. This is not, of course, about ideology in the sense that I am, in fact, sticking to the very extensive knowledge we have in this area. When someone, including someone in Mrs Astrid Krag's party, says that these differences are due to wear and tear, it is wrong, and I think Mrs Astrid Krag as former Minister of Health knows a lot about that. Mrs Astrid Krag knows very well that the differences in life expectancy are due to lifestyles. It will also mean that the 3Fs who live relatively healthy with relatively healthy ones, I think they do not smoke, have healthy consumption of alcohol, exercise, etc. What we can also see is that for the 3Fs who are in the labour market, their life expectancy increases, i.e. their remaining life expectancy as 60-year-olds, almost there is a marginal difference as much as all other groups. Those who are affected by a lower life expectancy are those who are outside the labour market, and a higher retirement age would give them higher living incomes, because even if they were receiving early retirement, they would thus receive a higher income from life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114009	I would urge the rapporteur, since the stopwatch is out of order, to keep an eye on whether the President is standing, so that we keep to the speaking time. Mrs Astrid Krag has pressed for her second comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114019	We could have a long discussion about this, but at least it is quite wrong when Joachim B. Olsen tries to draw a picture that the difference in life expectancy, which between the fourth with the shortest education and the fourth with the longest education, is 10 years for men and 6 years for women, should be the difference between the socially vulnerable, the bum on the bench, and then the bank manager. So we are dealing with a much broader group, and that is why I would just say against the Liberal Alliance's attempt to describe it as if it were the individual's problem. Then I will come to my question. I will sign for Joachim B. Olsen's honesty, for Joachim B. Olsen said that a higher retirement age also frees money for tax relief. And that's an honest answer. Will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen explains how much you want to raise your retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114101	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114102	It is true that higher retirement age frees resources for many things. In the absence of a rapid phasing-in of the increase in retirement age, there will be fewer resources for other things, including health care, police, defence, education, but also for lower taxes • lower taxes for the employees, 3Fs, who I think deserve to have a higher disposable income and thus a higher standard of living and more opportunities in their families. These are priorities, that is what politics is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114138	Thank you. Again, I should like to make a general recommendation that speaking time should be respected, so that we share the same amount of sun and wind. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114147	Thank you so much. I'll do my utmost. I thought that the Liberal Alliance was a liberal party, and by that I mean that the freedom of the individual will be safeguarded. I asked the rapporteur of the Left without an answer, and I can also ask him. Joachim B. Olsen. Does this talk mean that those who can work must work or that those who can work must have the opportunity to work? I believe that there is a liberal, crucial difference in the two sentences, and I would like to know which of those sentences is the most liberal and what we should be looking for? Because at the moment, sir... Joachim B. Olsen by forcing people to work longer, and they have saved their own pension money, so I can't see what the hell he's gotta do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114233	Nobody has to work. People can totally stop working for me. It's up to people to decide for themselves. What we are discussing here is when should we subsidise withdrawing from the labour market? That's what a retirement pension is. It is a subsidy that people withdraw from the labour market. The money we spend on it is money that has been taken from taxpayers and that cannot be spent on other things. But there is no connection in the logic of the welfare state with what you pay in and what you get out. That logic simply does not exist. It is not such an insurance scheme where you can see how much you have paid in and then you have the right to get something out. It doesn't work that way. I would like us to have lower taxes in Denmark. Some of that money, if that is what they are choosing, could of course give priority to paying into pension schemes that enable them to stop earlier. Some may want to spend it on something else. People have to find out for themselves. What we are discussing is when we need to subsidise, that people withdraw from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114332	The rapporteur is quite out of the question. The rapporteur does not want us to be given the opportunity to do so. At the moment, all older people who can work longer. These are notorious facts, and there is no need to change legislation. They do this all by themselves, because they want to be at work because they think they can do something more. There are some who cannot, and they are primarily in the ranks of the unskilled. I would like to ask the rapporteur to answer the question I put to the rapporteur on working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114404	As for the latter, sir. Christian Juhl apologise for not remembering that question. But I will answer the question put to me by the rapporteur. I don't want anyone to work. I don't want anyone to work. That would be very uliberal. That was the kind of thing that happened in those states with the ideologies that Mr. Christian Juhl has supported so strongly in the past, but you do not do so when you are a liberal. People have to decide for themselves. It is true that older people work longer, and they do so very much because we have actually made reforms that make them remain in the jobs they have had, that they do not leave the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114445	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114448	Thank you. It is not true that the rapporteur does not want to force people to work, because if you did not want to, you would not have helped to reduce the early retirement scheme and the rules on early retirement. There's a financial constraint in it. Well, that is simply not true when the rapporteur presents it as if inequality, that is, the huge difference in life expectancy, is due solely to lifestyles. That is simply not true. There's no research plan for that. Lifestyle is one factor, that's clear. Nobody denies that. But there is also something about physical and psychological wear and tear, accidents at work and everything that is affected and related to working life. Now there is nothing new about the Liberal Alliance suggesting that it is people's own fault that they do not live as long as others or that they cannot find a job. I would like to ask the rapporteur: what does it mean when it is stated in this joint resolution that the retirement age of the population will now be settled? Does this mean that the Danish People's Party has moved towards the other bourgeois parties, or is it the opposite that is the case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114600	The Danish People's Party can explain this itself. But when I say that the differences in life expectancy are entirely, largely due to lifestyle, it is true. 60-70 per cent. The difference is due to two factors alone: smoking and alcohol. And in addition, there are other factors such as exercise, diet, etc., which also mean a great deal. Wearing is not what strikes out here. It just isn't. There is no evidence of that anywhere. Therefore, rather than taking such an interest in the fact that the rise in retirement age is not being phased in more quickly, the trade union movement should focus on providing and helping their members to live healthier. I think a trade union movement could do that, not by compulsion, but by enlightenment. Then they did something for their members. But to argue that the increase in retirement age is not being phased in is something that everyone loses on. There are a very few groups that benefit greatly, but everyone else loses because there will be far fewer resources for other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114706	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114708	Unlike Mr. Joachim B. Olsen actually know a little about what 3F means and does in this area, and 3F has been working for years on the issue of lifestyle diseases and trying to inform Members about it. So there's really nothing new in it. I think we should ask the Minister for a statement on what is involved in research in this area. I am going back to my question, which is: why do we sign a joint resolution, of which there are two widely differing interpretations? Sir. Joachim B. Olsen wants to create calm and security by telling the population that they can be quite confident that the retirement age is going to increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114749	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114752	Well, I'm clearly saying that I'm absolutely one hundred percent convinced that we're going to see a faster phase-in of the rise in retirement age, if not now under this government, then under a later government. I am 100% convinced of it and, as I said, I would be happy to take a bet with everyone. I am absolutely convinced that Enhedslisten will not add votes to it, but I firmly believe that DF and S will one day add votes to it. But the right thing is to do it now. To show due diligence is to do so now that we can see there are some vintages on the way to retirement in 7-8 years, which will get 19 years on average on a national pension. I do not think that is a sensible use of resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114834	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114837	Thank you. It is always fresh to invite a bet on the platform. I rarely make bets, but it could be very nice to know if it's 1,000 kroner. in 2017 crowns or in 2035 crowns; of course, the rapporteur can consider that. What I would like to ask is that the rapporteur mentioned several times that the projections have changed, in other words that we have now discovered that we are facing a challenge that we had not foreseen. What are the projections that have changed? In other words, we have always known this, and we already took account of it at the time of the globalisation agreement in the mid-00's. Labour supply reforms have been made under the then government and, to that extent, under the SRSF government. What has changed now? So, Denmark is going to have Europe's highest retirement age. And we have taken into account the things that need to be taken into account, so why do we want to create insecurity for ordinary people, especially those with short education and low wages, when they can retire?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407114936	Well, the projections that have changed are, after all, the projections that formed the basis for the agreement that the Social Democratic Party helped to conclude in 2006 when it was based on an average retirement period of 141⁄2 years. They have changed, for in those projections there was a projection that life expectancy would rise forward, but it has just happened far, much faster than was predicted. The development expected by the 2006 welfare agreement to take 50 years has taken 10 years. That is what we are looking into, and it is an extremely positive development, but it is also a development that means that we will have to adjust the agreement if we are otherwise responsible. And then, sir... Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen himself decides whether we take the bet in 2017 crowns or in 2035 crowns. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen take the bet?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115033	There is no pressure for a follow-up question. Is there a desire to do so? Yes, there is a desire for a follow-up question. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen Yes, the more you can speak, the better). It just doesn't appear on my screen here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115057	I'll get back to you on that bet. It is not because I feel comforted by the rapporteur's saying that I can choose one or the other. So we will have Europe's highest retirement age in Denmark. The rapporteur is right to say that some things have happened, but we are still gradually increasing the retirement age as part of the welfare agreement, and we have helped to increase the supply of labour as far as all kinds of other elements are concerned. What the economists are telling us is: now focus on some other elements; now be careful to take due care when it comes to ensuring that the workforce has the skills needed to be able to engage in the labour market at all. Why is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen isn't on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115137	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115139	That's interesting, isn't it? Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen doesn't just agree to take the bet. This means that the Social Democratic Party is now helping to create some uncertainty as to whether the retirement age will be raised in the future; otherwise you could just say 'yes' to it. But fair enough. What is true is that the raising of the retirement age is what has been put in, that it can rise by a maximum. One year every five years, we cannot keep up with developments. In other words, development is increasing much, much faster than that, and that is, of course, why we should change it. That is why the increase should be phased in more quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115218	I just feel like repeating that if you want a second round in the short remarks, you click right into the button. The next question is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115228	Thank you, President. I'm gonna need to hear Mr. Simpson. Joachim B. Olsen, who he believes is responsible for ensuring that the individual worker stays longer on the labour market. Is it the worker himself? Is that the employer? Or is it the State, the Folketing, which is responsible for staying longer in the labour market than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115256	I'm not sure how to answer that question. It is not one party that is responsible for this. Well, this is a very complex area. In here, we set a framework for when, for example, we are going to be able to do something about it. can withdraw from the labour market and get money to do so. That's what we're calling the shots. Then there are a number of things going on in the labour market in connection with collective bargaining and all sorts of other things where you look at, among other things. Health and safety at work. Moreover, there is a technological development which means that we will have better machinery, a better capital stock, which is what is so finely called, that work will be less grueling, that workers' work will be worth more and that they will receive a higher salary. And that is a really, really positive development. This development must also be looked at in the future. I mean, even if, for example, there's... If 3F jobs are worn out today, it is not against what it was like 50 years ago or even longer ago. And this is due to the development that we have become richer, got better machines and so on, and that is a very good development. So the responsibility lies in many places.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115409	Thank you. But I just asked because the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, said that it was actually the workers themselves who were responsible for whether to stay longer in the labour market. Because we have the problem that there are many seniors who cannot get a job if they have been dismissed two years before retirement age, for example, or seniors who cannot be allowed to stay at their place of work once they have reached the age of retirement. That is also the problem. So I guess it's also a question of how employers have now arranged the jobs so that they can say to the workers: we can't do without you, we want you to stay. I guess it has a big impact on it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115447	Well, I'm sure there's a lot of things involved. However, what we can at least see is that the groups which are experiencing the greatest increase in employment in these years are the 55+-year-olds, the 60+-year-olds. They are experiencing an extremely high increase in employment in these years. And that is because of the reforms we have already made. When we had the debate on those reforms, it was the same arguments that were put forward, that is to say that we wanted to see people who had to crawl to work and so on because they were so worn out. But that is not what is happening and fortunately for it. We see that people stay in the work they did and that, by the way, they are happy about it. And when we then experience the positive that life expectancy increases further and more than expected, then we should take that into account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115542	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115545	I think it is appropriate to commend Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, because Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is, of course, very honest about what this is all about and explains in the answer to one of the previous questions that it is about raising the retirement age and lowering some taxes; I think, sir. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned the unskilled, i.e. the 3Fs, and that taxes should be reduced for them. It might actually be interesting to go out and ask some of these people who are sitting in the jobs around, how they would look at such a trade relationship • a higher retirement age against a lower tax. But in order to do that, we almost have to know what it is, sir. Joachim B. Olsen and the rest of the government bloc actually think, so: how much is it that the retirement age should be raised and how much is it that the tax should be lowered, in Joachim B. Olsen's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115646	Well, I don't want to hide the fact that this is the policy of the Liberal Alliance and that the government is making its own move. But I think, and we think it would be sensible if the retirement age were 68 in 2025. If the retirement age had followed the trend in life expectancy, and if we had followed the principle that Social Democracy was also included in 2006, then by 2025 the retirement age should already be 69 years. It is so fast that what the Social Democratic Party thought was quite reasonable in 2006 and where it was aiming after 141⁄2 years of retirement. If that principle were to be met, by 2025 the retirement age would already be 69 years old. It's so fast, it's going. This is extremely positive. Well, then, sir. Benny Engelbrecht ask the second question again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115746	There will be an opportunity for that now. Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115748	Thank you, President. Thank you for a clear answer to how much the Liberal Alliance wants to raise the retirement age. The second question then arises as to how much tax should be reduced accordingly when that money has been provided in Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Joachim B. Olsen and Liberal Alliance optics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115809	Well, the tax must be lowered and, for my sake, the whole room for manoeuvre can be used to lower taxes, including, like, the tax for those who are in employment, but like it all. However, I think that there is something in this whole debate that the Social Democrats have yet to answer, namely the question of the problems we will have when we have come on the other side of 2025, because then we have some challenges. It was the Social Democratic Party that introduced the budget law and it contains some limits, and those borders will be in conflict with us after 2015, and I have not heard any response from the Social Democrats on how they will address that challenge. At any rate, the government has made some proposals for this, and that is that the retirement age can meet that challenge. Social democracy needs to come up with solutions unless the solution is simply to say: then there is less money for all sorts of other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115903	There is no need for any further brief comments, so I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407115917	Thank you. Also a greeting and thanks from the Alternative to the SF for raising this debate. In the alternative, we do not support the idea of increasing the retirement age further or bringing forward an increase. There must be room for the quality of life and well-being of our older fellow citizens who have worked their entire lives in the labour market, not least those who have worked in occupations where the body and mind are worn out. So, on the other hand, we support schemes which will ensure that those who are most worn out of doing work, which is of benefit to all of us, can also stop first and retire while they can still enjoy their retirement. We are inspired by the German model, which we do not know about can be copied one to one in Denmark, which is a kind of flexible withdrawal where people who have been on the labour market for many years have the opportunity to retire earlier. In its presentation of the pension package, the German Government stressed that the reduction should be seen as a recognition of years of faithful service in the labour market. It's not something they're given, but it's something they've earned themselves, that's what it sounds like. Specifically, Germans, who have been 45 years on the labour market, can retire at the age of 63. It is 2 years earlier than the Danish retirement age. However, in the survey for 45 years on the labour market, for example, ordinary pay, apprenticeship and certain forms of further training are included. On the other hand, studies at the university, for example, do not count. In this way, in particular unskilled people and those with short training will benefit from the rules. In Germany it is expected that 200,000 Germans will be able to retire each year under the new and more relaxed rules. So, on the whole, the alternative does not support an increased retirement age. On the contrary, we would like to look at measures that bring society in the other direction. In this context, our proposal for adoption, which we hope to bring together the Folketing broadly, is as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament requires the government to work for a differentiated retirement age, so that the number of years on the labour market is decisive for the time of retirement. The German model can inspire this. • V 72).
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120135	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120145	Thank you. This is not so much an issue as it is a comment and a thank you for the rapporteur's contribution, because the rapporteur is going to be a little more specific about what we should be asking instead of this madness about raising the retirement age. So I just want to thank you for that, and then I'll look forward to that in the upcoming debates because there's gonna be more of this coming up a little closer to it. And when I feel the need to recognise the rapporteur, it is because we are actually a number of parties that agree on a very important point, at least in relation to what is being said from the platform, namely that we must have buried the government's plans for a further increase in the retirement age. What is so difficult is to discuss what specific alternatives they are and what concrete answers we have to give to those people, and that is not what we are doing today. However, I would like to thank the rapporteur for moving into that field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120249	I would like to thank the other way because the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption states so clearly that that retirement age should not be increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120259	The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120303	Can the rapporteur of the alternative explain why it is reasonable for the generations who are on their way to retirement to have many, many more years of retirement than the generations who are retiring later?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120322	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120323	If it is the case that we can create an increase in the quality of life and well-being of the citizens of this country, then I will never say that the fact that there has been less of it before must be an argument for not creating more of it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120341	That wasn't an answer. Why should the generations who are retiring in the years to come have many, many more years on a national pension than the generations that today hold the 40-year-old, the 35-year-old or even the 45-year-old? What is the reasonableness of that? Because that means that those generations will experience that because there are some who have many more years of retirement, there will be fewer resources for them when they come at the same age. What is the reasonableness of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120425	As to whether there will be fewer resources, we do not know. I know that the rapporteur is so quick to increase his retirement age that he is ready to bet on it. So, the rapporteur is good at looking into the past, but if we look into the future, we can see some huge unknowns, for example. robotisation, digitalisation and globalisation. Compared to those things, leading businessmen actually think that in the near future we may well experience that we do not all have to work so hard to make things run around. And I just still can't understand why the fact that people haven't had those opportunities before should justify that we shouldn't give people in this welfare society the best opportunities to get a good retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120512	We thank the alternative rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. And the next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407120529	For us in the Radical Left, the most precious thing is our children and their future. It is enough for everyone, but at a time when there are historically many on the run, and at least sometimes it may seem that we are closer to losing our grip on climate change, and when the fourth industrial revolution challenges our social model in many ways, we can sometimes look a little gloomy at the future. And you may lose faith that it is actually the case that we actually have fate in our own hands and that it is up to us to create a good life and more opportunities for our children and for all children. So when we radicals still believe in the future, it is because of the awareness that these freedoms and opportunities that we have today are created by the actions and the courage that generations before us have shown in many different places in society, including in politics. This is also due to a recognition that tomorrow can actually be better than yesterday if we dare take responsibility for ourselves and for each other and for future generations. It is about passing on a better society to our children than what we inherited from our parents. A world that changes so violently can be difficult to control, and therefore it can of course also be difficult to plan the future in detail. I guess that's almost impossible. But we can prepare for it and we can invest in it and do our best to be clear and shape it according to the ambitions for the future, rather than fearing it. It is our approach, that is, to try to see if we cannot raise our eyes and see the challenges we face, with the eyes of future generations, not just our own. And for us, therefore, it is absolutely crucial to be able to invest massively in our children's opportunities and on education, so that those who are harder than us and those who are coming after us can at least have the same opportunities and preferably more than those we have had. We believe that something better can be created. The Danes live longer. There has been a longer debate on this, and this means, in concrete terms, that there is a prospect of more years of retirement than for both past and future generations. This is really good news, because a lot of people have earned a good and long pension after many years in the labour market, and when, on the other hand, both the elderly and the pension period are getting longer than what the pensioners were looking for, then it is also just a fact that there will be less money available for other welfare tasks. In the Radical Left, we want to give priority to this. We want to invest more in our future, while at the same time wanting to ensure good welfare and care for both children and the elderly. So we call our proposal a generational gift in which we want to strengthen opportunities for children and young people, while at the same time pensioners can have a long period of retirement. Our proposal is to adapt the relationship between work and retirement so that it reflects more fully the longer life span which has already been part of the debate and which the Danes are looking forward to. We have proposed bringing forward the agreed retirement age. It will be 68 by 2030, and we propose to bring it forward to 2025, and thus, of course, we are asking future older people and, to a large extent, ourselves to give children and grandchildren a generational gift by taking one more year on the labour market from 2025 instead of 2030, if they can. At the same time, it is also important for the Radical Left to strengthen the possibilities of an earlier withdrawal, even earlier than today, for those who are worn out, and for the fact that, of course, you can also move on a regular basis to other jobs when you are in work, if you are at risk of wearing out. Those who can must contribute, but much better care must be taken and assistance given to those at risk in the labour market. That is why we have proposed that people who are worn out and have less than 5 years left should have direct access to early retirement or, of course, to resource or flex jobs if they so wish. But for us it is therefore a matter of prioritising, and it is about the next generation and the need to give our children more opportunities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121054	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121100	It was a fine speech, like most of the time, but of course it went wrong. That is how it is with the Radicals when we come to the social responsibility issue. Then I understand from what was said at the end of the speech that it is nevertheless the case that, regardless of the very different lives you live, all of you must be put under the same press to bring forward the phasing-in of an increase in retirement age. But where does the Radical Left view the majority here in the Folketing for that position?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121134	I cannot see that, but we are not planning our policy and our ambitions for the future after the majority. Then we wouldn't get far, we know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121148	How has Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen interpreted the signals that the government has otherwise sent out about an extraordinary six-month increase in retirement age? Is it the initiative of the Radical Left here and does the Radical Left expect that it will then be based on the government's earlier or, at least, clearer government basis for raising the retirement age? Is that what you start from?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121214	But the Radical Left presented its policy and ambition to invest in children, education, day care institutions and the most vulnerable in the labour market a long, long time ago, even before the last elections, well as the only ones. At that time we were called Masochists by the present Prime Minister. We've done that before. And we are based on the proposal made by the government. We have to, they are government and they have the right of initiative. However, we have presented our own proposal far back in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121248	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121252	Thank you very much. After all, it seems completely counterproductive that the rapporteur is saying that the opportunities for children and young people and the elderly will be increased and that this will be done by proposing a further drastic increase in the retirement age. I mean, it just doesn't add up. For if only the current agreement of 2006, as I also pointed out in my rapporteur's speech, is put into practice, which the bourgeois parties, including the Radicals and the Social Democrats, agree on yes, then that means that someone who is 18 years old today can only retire when he is 74 years old. So I do not call this an increase in opportunities, not even for a good senior life, and certainly not for the large group that comes into the labour market at an early age. But we know where we have the Radicals, precisely on that issue. What my question is about is: what are the early withdrawal arrangements that the Radicals will then propose to take into account the problem that everyone can see, namely that there are many who are worn out and simply cannot stand to work for so long?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121359	But Mr. Finn Sørensen is right about the fact that if you are worn out today, or before you are 67 years old, and there are people who get • so it doesn't matter whether you phase in the agreement we have already reached by a broad majority, by 2025 or by 2030. It doesn't make any difference to those people. They need a much more intensive effort in the past. That is also why I think it is a little strange that we should have the debate under these conditions, as if those people who really need help are helped by the fact that this agreement is not being brought forward. But they don't. They will only be helped if we make a special effort. Our proposal is now about a senior early retirement pension, which must be much, much more accessible. If you need it and cannot work full-time, we say that you should have access to a pension five years early. We are very open to discussing other things in this context and are also sitting at Enhedslisten's rapporteur and discussing the senior early retirement pension, the flex job reform and the early retirement reform: Does it work as it should? Do all these initiatives work? Fortunately, we have a good and open and constructive discussion on this in the conciliation circle. There is no doubt that there are people today who are worn out, and there will be in the future too. And they're gonna need help a lot sooner. The advance is that we need to be able to invest massively in our children and young people in the future. Otherwise we will leave the bill with them and we will not be part of the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121551	Thank you. That was a very long answer. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121554	Thank you. In other words, if we now have so much concern for the group that cannot manage to work for a crazy retirement age of 74, why was one so eager to help destroy the early retirement scheme? Why was the possibility of early retirement drastically reduced as a government party? It doesn't really add up. With regard to the rapporteur's proposal for a senior early retirement pension, which follows the age of the old age pension, I suppose the rapporteur himself can hear that it is not linked either, because with a retirement age of 74 years you can only receive a senior early retirement pension when you are 69 years old. And at that time the group we are talking about has long since been thrown out of the labour market and is living on cash aid with a ceiling and 225-hour rule, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121657	To conclude, I hope that we will work together for this, because it is also very important for the Radical Left. We have also financed this in the proposals we have put forward. After all, it is important to be able to do so if we want to abolish the 225-hour rule and the ceiling on cash benefits, just as it is important to be able to indicate that we want to invest in the future. Then you have to prioritize. We want to do much, much more than we do today, and in relation to the future for those who really need it and who are at risk of wearing out. I also believe that a number of health and safety initiatives are needed, prevention at all, so that we can move forward. However, in general, we live much longer and we have an agreement that the retirement age will be 68 by 2030. We propose to bring it forward to 2025 so that the terms will apply to all of us who can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121754	Thank you. I have to recommend once again that we keep to the speaking time and do not make ourselves comfortable when it comes to speaking time. So the President will stand up ten seconds before speaking time expires, and that is what we have to comply with. Next in line is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121810	Thank you. I would like to put it another way. When the early retirement was made once in my youth, one of the arguments was that there were too many young unemployed, and therefore it would be very good to take a little more account. Based on the theory, which I believe that a young person outside the labour market may be a whole life is very much more expensive than if a single senior person is allowed to choose for himself whether to retire or work or whether to retire or work a little longer. Is it not the young people that we need to focus on and ensure that they enter the labour market and then say that the elderly can find out for themselves? It seems that things are going very well at the moment, because the elderly are still working if they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121856	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121858	No, I actually think that's a rather sad approach to senior talents and opportunities. We think that we need everyone who can contribute and will contribute because of course there is no compulsion and therefore I do not think it is at all about giving room to more people. This is not a game of chairs in the labour market. We need many more who can contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121933	Does the questioner have a follow-up question? There is now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407121938	I need to know if there was any reason for a follow-up question. I am not saying that the elderly should be thrown out of the labour market. I say that they should be allowed to decide for themselves, and they should not be pressured to work any longer. They must have a freedom, an opportunity to do so, and then, as politicians, we must concentrate and give priority to our efforts on what is the biggest problem in the labour market: the thousands of young people who do not have a chance, who do not have an opportunity that is not available in the jobs currently available. You don't want to take care of them, you don't want to give them the room you need to be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122012	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122014	For the Radical Left, it is absolutely crucial that we can prioritise and invest in those children and young people who need to have much more opportunities. This is true in the workplace, and it is very important to ensure that they are lifted from a very small point of view. There must be a number of more and more skilled educators who have access to continuing training, for which we must invest massively more in school and education, and this requires priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122043	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber, so we will proceed to the next speaker, and that is something as unusual as a privateist. It's sir. Christian Juhl as a privateist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122104	It doesn't have to be the same. The reason I am taking the floor is because there has been a rather superficial and confusing attitude to what working conditions and safety mean to people's ability to work for a long time. Most people recognise that working life is different and that it depends on where they have been placed in the labour market, but there are people in this Chamber who have today asked whether the pace of change is going on in the workplace, whether there is a harder strain today due to a harder pace. And there's notoriety about that. There's no way around it. There is also a brutalisation of the labour market, which is extremely hard in parts of the labour market, especially in the part of the labour market which is made up of the unskilled. This means that as recently as last week here with the Minister for Employment, we stated that it goes down Pomerania to use a non-swear word with the working environment in Denmark. The aim of the 2020 Work Environment Plan is to reduce muscle and skeletal stress jobs by 20%. Until 2020. That's not gonna happen. The minister had to acknowledge that, instead of falling from 2011, the number of incriminating jobs has increased by 15%. It is a completely crazy situation that is in the working environment. But we can also take other areas of stress, for example. the psychological working environment, which is also included in the 2020 plan. The goal was to reduce the number of stressful jobs by 25%, and to those of you who were not here last week for the debate on working conditions, I can tell you that it has increased by 17 per cent. A third area to be addressed by the plan was serious accidents. We do not yet know where it has gone. There is much evidence that there have been no improvements, at best they are very, very small, and there was also the plan that they should fall by 20%. That does not happen, and that is why I think that if you overlook the role of the working environment and safety in the discussion on how long we can be in the labour market, you overlook an enormously central and important element, thereby pushing people to work longer than they can. I would like to warn against this, and that is why I took advantage of the opportunity that exists to make a longer comment when you are not the rapporteur. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122353	Thank you to the privateist, sir. Christian Juhl. Then Mr Conservatives' rapporteur has appeared, so I give the floor to Mr Conservatives. Rasmus Jarlov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122407	Thank you. I was waiting for the SF to be on the platform, but of course they shouldn't when they're questioners. We are, of course, in favour, like the other governing parties, of raising the retirement age. It is clear that when you go out and ask the Danes, they are, of course, in isolation not in favour of raising the retirement age. But you have to realize that the alternative is that in other ways we have to ask people to pay more... they either have to work more or pay more in tax... if we are to finance that there has to be a very long pension period. I think that if the alternatives are set up properly, that is to say that you can choose either to work a lot more while you are of working age, or to pay much more in tax, or that we keep the pension length of what it has always been, namely about 141⁄2 years, people will choose that we keep the time you are on a pension, rather than just having to retire longer and longer. Of course, when life expectancy increases, it is natural that we also allow people to retire later. After all, it does increase and increase life expectancy, and if at some point we reach an even higher life expectancy than we have today, I believe that most people will be able to see the reasonableness of the fact that we are, of course, allowing the retirement age to rise. We have the aim of the agreement we have made that we should have a pension time of approx. 141⁄2 years on average. We think this is very appropriate. We do not think it should be the case that you should be 15, 20 or 25 years of retirement. We do not see it as a good thing for people either, that they should be as long as possible retired. We do not think that there is anything bad about being in the labour market. That is why we do not think it is a bad thing to do about people either, by saying that, when life expectancy increases, we also allow the retirement age to rise. We miss hearing a little from those who are opposed to allowing retirement age to follow life expectancy, how we should pay for it, because it will be a very, very big bill. It is huge sums that will be missing in the treasury if we have to pay for people being very long on retirement. In this context, I cannot help but be a little disappointed by the social democracy, which is now running a very populist right of opposition, in which we are thundering against something which I am quite convinced that social democracy is really very well aware of. In my view, there are very cheap points to be gained by pretending to people that you can not allow the retirement age to rise. And I am absolutely convinced that this recognition will also be achieved by social democracy if they are to regain power at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122700	Thank you. And there are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122706	Well, I am sure that the rapporteur has been sitting up in his office watching the computer since the rapporteur knows what has been said down here, because I have not seen the rapporteur here. But that's fair enough. I just have to say that we have also seen in this debate that there have been economic wise men who have said that there is economic sustainability far in the future. We don't need hands. So that means that everything that the rapporteur says is not correct. It's not just us over here who say that. It's economists, it's the finance minister's own rain boys. It's pretty much everyone saying this. But the government doesn't. I just have to ask: what is the reason for this? Should the rapporteur not be as honest as the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, who has just said that the reason why you are among other things. Is this going to create scope for tax relief? Isn't that why? Why does the rapporteur not just say it as it is and say: yes, that is why?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122804	It is true that I have sat up in my office and followed the debate if Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen should be in doubt about that. And I would very much like to challenge sir. Leif Lahn Jensen claims that all economists should say that it is not necessary to raise the pensionable age. I'd love to arrest that, because that's not true. And Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen also well. I do not know whether all economists only include the economists of the trade union movement in Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's universe, but more neutral economists of course point out that it is of course untenable that we have a social model where, in a large part of our life, we are on public support. First, you are in education, for which the public pays. Then you are on the labour market for a period of time, and then you have a very, very long retirement life at the end. Of course, it is untenable if the relationship between those who work and those who do not work gets too distorted. And it will if the retirement age does not follow life expectancy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122902	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122904	Is it not true that the economic wise men have said that there is economic sustainability? And is it not true that even the Ministry of Finance has actually said that in 2025 we will have 168,000 extra hands? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122925	I can't do those numbers in my head, but I think that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen must try to argue for it when he does not believe that retirement age should follow life expectancy. Then I would say in relation to the question that was before, that of course we have a desire to reduce taxes in Denmark. There is no doubt about that. But even without doing so, it will still be necessary for us to increase the retirement age as life expectancy rises.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407122957	The next question is Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123001	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov started his rapporteur's speech by saying that, like the rest of the government, Conservatives are in favour of raising the retirement age. I guess we figured that out. The debate today is probably very much about how much and when. In March, both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance were promoting various statements that various initiatives relating to withdrawal will be put forward during the spring. But does such government proposals contain, or does the rapporteur wish, such government proposals to include an increase in the retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123031	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123033	We support the Government's efforts to launch some negotiations on how we can raise the retirement age more than that which lies in the agreement that we already have. How exactly we do that, I will leave it up to the Minister. I'm sure he'll be able to explain that afterwards. And it is not crucial for us whether it happens in one way or another. But as long as we can get the retirement age up a little, we're happy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123102	Is there another question?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123104	Yes, of course. I thought that there was something ludicrous about it when a bourgeois government is playing out and making such a proposal for adoption today, which clearly exhibits the division that exists, both within the government and at least between the government and its largest support party, because when it says here that we have to create security for the retirement age of the Danes, we have heard from the Danish People's Party earlier today that it should be understood that we have not then heard from the Liberal Alliance that they believe it should be touched. And now I can hear from the Conservatives Rasmus Jarlov that there too it is thought that retirement age should be included in those proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123137	I am just a little blank as to why it should be ludicrous that I tell you what the Conservative People's Party thinks. I don't quite understand. We believe that the retirement age must be raised, and that is not so much ludicrous.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123150	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123155	The rapporteur wanted the money to enable us to ensure that people could go on a proper senior regime. After all, the rapporteur has helped to destroy the early retirement scheme, which provided protection for those who had hard work. Was it not time that we also found a way to rebuild it before further steps were taken, for they will be pushed even harder? I would like to point out that every year we throw 64 billion. kr. In this society, it could be saved on a bad working environment. Sixty thousand people suffer from accidents and occupational diseases, and that is 60,000 new every year. It costs employers, it costs the public, it costs health care and it costs the individual. Why does the rapporteur close his eyes to this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123250	My eyes are completely open and also to getting something done about the working environment in the workplace. None of us has any wish that there should be a bad working environment. So I don't quite know what's meant by saying we close our eyes. In relation to the early retirement, we are very pleased that we have got rid of the system that Mr. Christian Juhl says. The post-retirement salary was an early withdrawal, in practice a reduction in the retirement age, and we are not in favour of that. We are in favour of the fact that, when we have an increasing life expectancy, we also adjust the retirement age accordingly, so that we have a reasonable relationship between how many people are retired and how many are in the labour market. 60-year-olds or 62-year-olds who were previously able to retire are not considered on average old people anymore. It's people of their prime age, and most of them can easily work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123346	Sir. Christian Juhl has not clicked on a new question. It's clicked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123353	Thank you. Last Thursday, the rapporteur and his party would not be helping to restore the Factory Inspectorate, to ensure that the working environment organisation in the workplace works more effectively, to ensure that small businesses can obtain advice when SF and Enhedslisten proposed it. That is why I say: there are billions of dollars that we do not make sure to get home in the box. There's unbelievable pain. Five people die a day because of a poor working environment. 54 are affected by work-related illnesses, 115 are affected by accidents today, tomorrow Saturday and Sunday and every day we do nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123432	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123434	It is regrettable that accidents at work are still taking place around the world. We think we have come a long way and we would also like to move forward in improving the working environment, but because we are not on all Enhedslisten's proposals, it does not mean that we do not care about the issue and that we do not care about the working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123451	The next question is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123455	Thank you. This is obviously the day for honest talk by the government rapporteurs. Earlier we heard Mr. Joachim B. Olsen confirms that you want more room for manoeuvre so that you can give tax relief and that it is part of the ambition behind the desire for the higher retirement age, and now the Conservatives' rapporteur from the platform says that he is glad that you got your early retirement. That is why it is quite natural to ask whether we should expect a complete abolition of the early retirement pension in the proposal to raise the retirement age, which comes from the government and which we can understand comes at some point in the near future. So you're gonna have to go all the way back there, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123534	I am not in a position to explain what is going to be in the government's proposal. You have to ask the government that. I am a parliamentarian of a party that has some ministers, but I am not a member of the government. That is why I am speaking on behalf of my party as rapporteur, but I cannot speak on behalf of the government. It can only members of the government, i.e. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Joachim B. Olsen, who is sitting there by mistake at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123605	But now it is the case that a government is made up of some parties, including the rapporteur's own party, so let me ask you something that the rapporteur can at any rate respond to without making a long outspoken speech. First of all, will the Conservatives be working to ensure that the post-retirement pay is completely taken away as part of the move that the government is making at some point? Secondly, what do the Conservatives want to do to raise the retirement age in the run-up to the government? The rapporteur must be able to answer that, and frankly I think you owe the Danes some quite clear answers to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123639	Conservatives' policy is, of course, exactly the same as it was before we entered the government, and it is that we want the post-retirement pay abolished. I don't think we're gonna get this into government play. I do not think there will be any agreement on this in the government, but of course our policy in this area is the same as it has always been. Anything else would be weird, that is, all of a sudden we should mean something completely different.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123702	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123705	Thank you very much. After all, we have been visited here in the Folketing by some young people who sit and listen attentively. I may not be so good at judging their age, but I'd say they're probably about 17-18 years old or something like that. Would the rapporteur be so kind as to explain to these young people what is fair is that if they are now 18 or are about to be, they can look forward to going on a retirement pension when they are 74 years old? What is the fairness of this when, at the same time, we welcome the fact that we have destroyed the early retirement scheme and that we have contributed to the deterioration of other withdrawal opportunities, such as the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund and the European Social Fund. I would like to ask the Commissioner whether he is prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and whether he is prepared to accept them. top tax relief? Can the rapporteur explain the fairness of this to the young people up there in the gallery?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123807	I'd love to. Dear young people, welcome to, I am glad that you are following the debate here. It is so that if we do not raise your retirement age, your whole life will have to pay the world's highest taxes, only to be able to retire a lot of years when you get old but are healthy and fully capable of working. I think that most of you will be able to understand that there is reasonableness in that we of course let people retire when they cannot work anymore, but that there is no particular reasonableness in that we have to pay for people to retire while they are healthy and fully capable of working. Pension is for people who can't work anymore. It's not just that you can walk and have fun because you don't want to work anymore, even if you could. That's what's fair in it, and I hope you can understand that. I also hope that you can understand that, of course, there has to be such a relationship in our society that you cannot have very many people who are paid for not working, while there is only a minority of people who are in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123910	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123912	After all, the young people cannot ask questions to the rapporteur, but I can, and I would just like to point out that the rapporteur did not reply to what I asked. What is the fair thing about raising the pensionable age, which has actually been agreed, so that the young people up there will have to wait until they are 74-75 years old before they can retire, while at the same time facilitating the top tax, while at the same time reducing the withdrawal opportunities for those who cannot work? That is what the rapporteur had to answer and explain to young people. I do not really think there was an answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407123948	The fair thing in that young people may have to retire at 74 or 75 years of age is that the life expectancy at that time will be up to 90 years. If you have the prospect of being around 90 years of age it is such an average that there is no reason why you should retire already when you are 70 and then be retired for 20 years, because when you are in the early 70s you are still healthy and able to work. The fair thing about lowering taxes is that there is no other country in the civilised world where politicians take just as much of the citizens' money and spend it. And the last thing we think is unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124026	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124030	Like other rapporteurs in this Chamber, I think it is a strong diet to hear the Conservative rapporteur actually be proud to have destroyed the early retirement scheme. But that is not what my question is about. My question is simply as follows: can the rapporteur not confirm that the economic wise men in their latest report in Chapters 2 and 3 show the fiscal sustainability and arrive at a quote from the financial policy considered to be viable? Quote out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124110	I love these so-called questions where you read some quote and then ask me to confirm it. That, sir. Benny Engelbrecht really wanted to tell you what it said in a report. We will take note of that then. I do not think I can confirm exactly what is in a particular chapter of a report that I do not have in front of me. But I guess that's true when mr. Benny Engelbrecht says so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124135	Good. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124137	It is absolutely true that this is true, and that is also why it is wrong for both Conservatives and the Left to point out in the past that there should be a special economic necessity in raising the retirement age. That is simply wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124154	If we are to establish some coherence, we must also be able to argue why it is then, as we claim, and I miss the argument from the Social Democrats that it should be smooth for the Treasury if we are to pay for the fact that many more people are retiring longer than they are today. It goes without saying that it is, of course, an economic challenge if we are to have an 18-year retirement age instead of 14 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124227	The next question is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124231	Thank you. Allow me to drop into this debate on a Friday because it is a matter that has taken me up for so many years. After all, I noted that for the first time in Danish history, the Conservative People's Party voted in favour of the early retirement in 1998, and it had never been done before. They did it again in 2006, and they did it again in 2011. Can't you trust what the Conservatives are doing? After all, the three times they settled on how the rules for withdrawal were supposed to be. Secondly, I would like to say that I do not understand what kind of policy you want to pursue. The government is pursuing a policy that no one is asking for, and it has not improved by the Conservatives joining it. Who really is asking for a higher retirement age? And if there is revenue, what will the money be used for?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124322	It demands everyone who has such a fairly understanding of the economy and understands that there has to be a fair relationship between those who provide and those who are on passive support. They demand that we do not allow the retirement age to stay longer and longer and that, when life expectancy increases, we also take the consequences and, of course, let the retirement age increase along with life expectancy. We have always opposed the early retirement, that is correct, and then we have reached some compromises along the way. We do that because sometimes it is necessary. However, I do not believe that Conservative rapporteurs have ever left any doubt over the years that we have wanted the early retirement scheme to be abolished. That is why we are also proud that we have had it decimated, albeit not completely abolished yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124410	It is actually gratifying, on the one hand, that the Conservatives report so clearly. It is said that it is those who know the economy and those who want to keep a higher amount of money themselves and pay less in tax which one lays the foundation of one's policy of selfishness. But those who have a hard physical job out there, masons, carpenters, SOSU assistants and blacksmiths, and who else you can think of, you have no respect for. That is honest and clear talk, and we must then go out and tell it in an election campaign: the Conservatives are completely, indifferent to people who have had a hard working environment and who have become worn out. You don't look at them. You are only interested in those who will pay as little tax as possible. Thanks for the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124451	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124453	That was a very irresponsible speech by Mr. Bjarne Laustsen here to try to interpret the views of Conservatives in such a way that there should be pure selfishness when we think that there should be a sensible relationship between how many people are retired and how many are in the labour market. It is a question of things being linked. I do not think it is selfish to say that people who are fully healthy and able to work should also do so, rather than being able to withdraw and then each month receive a check from some others who work hard on the labour market. Why do people have to sit in Netto and work hard and toil every day and then pay a whole lot of taxes in order that there might be some who could also work but who doesn't? We find that difficult to see reasonable, and we do not think that is selfish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124535	The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124539	Thank you. I'm just gonna correct both of you, sir. Finn Sørensen, but rather the rapporteur. For now the young people up on the balcony were drawn into the debate and, as the rules are today, their retirement age is 69 years. I think it will be higher, because one in three of the young people sitting up here will be 100 years old, and that is why I believe that the retirement age will be raised for them. However, it has nothing to do with what we are discussing today. What we are discussing today is, of course, whether the increase in retirement age, what we have already adopted, should be phased in more quickly. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur how he will explain to the young people who sit up here that they have the prospect of considerably fewer years on a retirement pension than the years on the way to retirement right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124638	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124639	Well, we agree, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, in this area. We do not think there is any sense in there having to be some vintages right now, which should have a pension time of 18-19 years, and then there are others who later should only have an expected retirement time of about 14 years. And that is also why we want a slightly faster phasing-in of the increase in retirement age. Then I am asked how the retirement age will be for the vintage that sits up here. It's hard to say. It depends on whether Enhedslisten gets their way and keeps the retirement age very low, so you can look forward to a retirement period of perhaps 25-30 years, or whether we get our way and stick to the fact that if you can work, you have to do it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124724	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next speaker in this debate is the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407124736	Thank you for that and thank you for a large number of different comments from the parties that have been on the platform. I agree with some more than others. I would like to start by signing that SF would like to have a discussion on this important theme, which I started with myself. In fact, I think that today, although we have been very wide-ranging, there has certainly been a good political disagreement about how to ensure the future of Danish society, and that is not least because there is a big difference between how the government goes to this task and how other parties in the Folketing want to ensure the future of Danish society. It is also a question of some rapporteurs having referred to it fairly and reasonably, and it is also a question of ensuring that those who have the opportunity will also contribute to a society where people will increasingly experience that people are getting better and also become more healthy. Then I have noted that the Social Democrats have meant a number of things in the speech made by the Socialist rapporteur, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Leif Lahn Jensen, come with me. Replying to comments from the House: I would like to say to Mr. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen, that there was not much of what he said in his speech, with which I could in any way agree with him. It is quite clear that the fact that the Social Democrats have had the power of government has happily forgotten all about and that the responsibility that has been shown in the past in relation to various economic priorities is no longer the case. Where things got really bad for Mr. Knox. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen, and it has been for a number of other Social Democrats during today's debate, is of course saying that the reason why you should have a discussion about the withdrawal at all is that the tax should be reduced. I would simply like to remind you of what the Prime Minister has said on several occasions, at the latest in March, when he says that there will be no cross-financing between it, that is to say, if you make a withdrawal reform and it has to provide an economic incentive, then it will have to be used to reduce the tax. This is the position of the government in this matter, and I think the Social Democrats may not want to hear that, but they know it. But the Social Democratic Party would like to have a discussion on this subject. So it is really important to make it clear in today's debate that this is not the position of the government. Let me then sign that there are parties that have made one, I think, very sensible and good proposals for adoption, which illustrate that you may well have different views on this issue, but that you reach out to a discussion on how we can both take initiatives to ensure that more of those who can and will stay on the labour market, but of course also reach out to a political discussion that the government expects to present to the Folketing here over the coming months. For that matter, I should also like to extend my hand to the Radical Left, which has again delivered a good and well-balanced rapporteur's speech, which is in conflict with the rapporteur's speech, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen was held on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. The Radical Left is at least demonstrating today that there is nothing new about strong financial responsibility in terms of recognizing the challenges we are facing, and it has to be said that, unfortunately, there is a great deal of variation in the challenges that the parties in the Folketing will face. I think it is responsible that, in good time before you experience what economists call the hammock effect, you start to set up your society in a more sensible way. If revenue and expenditure do not correspond to each other or there are other challenges, then it is very, very sensible, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also says that one sets one's life and thus the economy in a different way, so that one does not get to for many, many years financially to be under pressure. From the SF, which has taken the initiative for this debate, and from Mr. Karsten Hønge was there, you have to say... and it has to be understood with a glimpse in the eye... not much new, if you may say so. That praise is to be commended to Mr. Karsten Hønge. After all, we have had this debate several times, at the latest in January, when exactly the same questions were asked, but not during a question debate. However, we are happy to stand up and discuss things too, so I do not think that I am going to come nearer to my comment on Mr Beazley's report. Karsten Hønge. The alternative has to be said to have put forward a proposal for adoption, which I do not think explains much about how and how they view the economic situation, nor can it be said that Enhedslistens does so. But with that I would say that we have now seen the positions in Danish politics, also in relation to the discussion we have had here today. As the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, in fact very well said along the way on the many questions that came to him, is after all about a political battle that the government will take and which is also linked to the fact that there is a difference between the parties sitting here at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125331	I have noted a considerable interest in short remarks. We'll start with sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125338	First of all, I would just like to ask the Minister for Employment to confirm that it is the case that in their recent long-term projections of Danish economy on page 131, the economic wise men arrive at what the Minister so rightly calls a hammock effect: in the worst years... the deficit amounts to 0.4 per cent. of GDP. Thus, the balance under the calculation assumptions in this projection is never in conflict with the Danish budget law's limits...·. In other words, the economic wise men arrive at the conclusion that the hammock effect that all calculations estimate is there is much less than hitherto assumed and that we will not be in conflict with the budgetary limits. So the economic necessity for which the Minister is advocating should be present, so that, for that reason alone, you have to change the retirement age is not present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125441	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125442	I do not have page 131 of the report by the economic wise men on the platform and therefore not what they may have written. There are quite a lot of economists who speak out about Danish economy. I believe that the Social Democrats must be very careful not to make a certain type of economist into the ones they lean on. I remember that the Social Democratic Party was very concerned about what among other things. The National Bank and, for that matter, the Ministry of Finance also had figures when they themselves sat in government. No matter how you turn it, Denmark will have to secure the future of society. If there is to continue to be money for core welfare, more spending on health, more money for the elderly, a healthy economy will be ensured. I guess we don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125527	I am very sorry that I am merely relying on the economic wise men. But then let me ask you something else. It is quite clear when you hear the debate today that there is no majority in favour of what the government is doing. And, frankly, I also have a lot of doubts as to what is really being thought of within the governing parties. I could hear sir. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance believes that one should raise the retirement age by one year and use the money that comes in that way to lower the tax. I would just like to ask the Minister to de- or confirm that this is government policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125606	You will see the government's policy in relation to the question of retirement age when there is a concrete proposal. That is why I am also grateful to the Social Democrat rapporteur, the Socialist financial rapporteur, Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, unable to find out what the government is doing with it. - Sir, you can. Benny Engelbrecht is very excited to be much wiser in a short time and then we can have a discussion on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125636	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125641	I would like to thank the Minister for congratulating those who have made a sensible proposal for adoption. I would like to thank you for that, because I know that, among other things. We're the ones who have it. That is why I am just a little surprised that the government has not agreed to this proposal for adoption. But now I hear the Minister say that the proportions have been seen in relation to this in Danish politics today. Yes, it has been seen, and this shows that the government is in a minority. The Danish People's Party does not want to participate in this, so that means that there is no majority in favour of it. So either we have a government that can't count to 90 at all, and that means that they hardly know what they want or have to do, because they stick to it, or they have made an agreement or a settlement or something that we don't know anything about, and it can only be with DF, it can't be with others. So I have to ask again: has an agreement been made? Has a settlement been made? Has something been done under the hand that we don't know anything about in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125729	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125732	First of all, I would like to say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that it's Friday today, and that's why you shouldn't go around hanging around like that with the mule. You have to be happy. There's a long day ahead of us that actually seems to be going to be good. It is unbelievable that the Social Democrats, which have a black belt in changing attitudes, depending on whether you are in government or in opposition, should note that there are no 90 mandates for an initiative that has not even been presented yet. Let me remind you that ten years ago, when we also had welfare policy discussions, there were parties, including the Social Democratic Party, very critically, before one looked at the play, which had written off that it was possible to reach a political consensus, which then nevertheless, and I would like to praise the Social Democratic Party for that, it is so seldom that I get the opportunity of what was sought from the Speaker's Chair of Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125818	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125820	So I simply ask, so that even this minister can understand it, with a positive and very big smile on his face: has an agreement been made with other parties in addition to the government parties, a simple agreement, an agreement on retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125838	No, of course no agreements can have been made when no action has been taken. That goes without saying. It's almost as good a Jysk sense that you get your head hurt by answering it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125850	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125853	Yes, but I really think the Minister, in his reply to me, apologized for the fact that the Minister had not replied. Don't worry about it. As long as the Minister has an answer to the many worried citizens out there, I am quite satisfied. We can see that the Prime Minister and Finance Minister went forward in March and said that there would be various proposals for withdrawal, but what is not certain is whether there will be an increase in the retirement age. Well, with the former V government it was pretty clear. The current government is clearly divided against itself, in that we can see today that the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives read the text that has been put forward as if they wanted to touch the retirement age and set it up, whereas the parliamentary basis, the Danish People's Party, will not be a part of it. Then the Minister could not help lift a loft of veiled how to read this with confidence about the retirement age of the Danes. Is it a security, understood, that they must be absolutely convinced that you intend to raise it once more beyond what has already been agreed? Or is it the way the Danish People's Party reads that it is not being discussed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407125956	Yes, sir. Karsten Hønge, that there might well be something better to spend time on than a controversy about a word in a proposal for adoption, because I would like to take part in that. I think it is clear to everyone that, just as when the SF was in government, there may be several perceptions of how a text can be understood, and what I note is, of course, that there is a majority in the Folketing that can support the text that has now been put forward. I can also understand that in certain parties here in Christiansborg there is a lot of sadness, namely those parties which cannot adopt the text that they support. Well, that's gotta be it! However, it is too serious and too important a debate to discuss why the parties may have different views of one word. I have to say that I do not think this debate is appropriate. But for good reason, I shouldn't interfere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130043	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130043-2	This isn't about whether or not somebody's upset. Come on, Minister, let's go! This is about us trying to understand the proposal for adoption. Is it to be understood that you intend to touch the retirement age or that you do not want to? Then there is no point in saying, as the Minister says: well, it is good that we have a majority in favour of it. Because it's no use snuff if you don't know what you've agreed on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130103	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130104	In other words, I now think that the proposal for adoption speaks its perfectly clear and pure language in relation to what is agreed. So I don't think I'm gonna botanize that anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130113	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130114	In any case, we can understand that there are two widely differing interpretations of the word'security'. The Minister states that citizens can confidently trust that their retirement age will be further increased if it stands for the Minister, and the Danish People's Party has a different interpretation of it. I just want to ask two technical questions, you might say. One is: when does the government expect to come up with this proposal where there will be something about retirement age and pension? The second question is: does the welfare agreement concluded in 2006 have the status of a political agreement, or does it have the status of a political settlement? When I ask, it is because the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party referred to the agreement as a political settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130216	The government will come up with its proposal here during the spring, as I have also said several times in the course of the debate. And in relation to the status of the agreement that Finn Sørensen asks me, I think I should reply in writing, because there is a difference between whether it is an agreement or a political settlement, and since I did not make that agreement myself, I think it is best that I return in writing to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130238	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130239	I may then have to put up with that, although I think it is a little strange, because it is one of the most controversial and controversial agreements that has been going on for many, many years. But will the Minister confirm that what will be the answer to that question is very crucial? Because if it is a political agreement, those who have concluded it can say at any time: well, but we do not agree with that anymore; now we are doing something else, we are proposing to amend the pension law so that we get rid of the current increase in retirement age, as we agreed. But if it is a political settlement, you are stuck with it, if you may say so. Then all the parties to that settlement are bound unless the settlement is terminated for a parliamentary election and some choose to use that parliamentary election to obtain a majority for something quite different from what is stated in that settlement. So will the Minister confirm that it is very crucial what the answer is?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130333	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130338	I would like to confirm that it is always crucial that a minister responds to the questions that are being asked and also answers them correctly. And there is a difference between whether it is an agreement or a settlement. Yeah, that's not news. This is also true in all other areas. So that's where I'm gonna have to give Mr. Kevin. Finn Sørensen is absolutely right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130351	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130352	Thank you. The minister is not very worried about Fridays, but I am particularly worried about Friday 13th. I know it is not today, but on Friday 13 May 2011, the agreement that we know as the withdrawal agreement was made. One can fear that there will be other days like this. That is not what I wanted to comment on, but the fact that the Minister says that there is no link between raising the pensionable age and then reducing, for example, the pensionable age. The top tax, that's not gonna happen. But then the Minister and the bourgeois rapporteurs use the expression that it is going to be hard on future generations if we do not get an increase in the retirement age and thus get more revenue. We do not know exactly what the revenue is if we increase the retirement age. But what exactly is the money to be used for, and what is it that we cannot do if we do not whip the elderly to become something longer? Surely the best thing to do is to get people to work voluntarily longer, as we have been doing since 1998. We have increased the incentives for people to work longer. It is quite clear that the conciliation we have made together has worked in this direction and those who can will want to stay. Why do some people have to be whipped, and what is it we can't have if we don't?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130510	I am not going to publish today what the government's proposals for withdrawal should look like. You must have some ice in your stomach and wait for it, and then you can see it in a context when it is presented later in the spring, and I will look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130523	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130524	Yes, but it is still strange to say that there is no link to reducing the tax. I have to understand that it must be used to support welfare if there is revenue. This is, of course, a rather central issue, and that is what we need to get out and convince, that is to say, that the elderly must give a hand because we need to spend money on young people's education, health, etc., or whatever it is. That may be fair enough, but I think it is fair enough to tell people what the purpose is, because if people want to work for themselves longer, is there something to prevent it? Then they do, and then they may pay a bigger contribution to get their pension set up and so on. When the government came up with this and wrote it into the government base and so on, it must be because there was a plan, and in the plan we saw earlier, which I think was the 2025 plan, it was said that there should be both an increase in the retirement age and a reduction in the top tax. You can understand why we think it is inappropriate to make that coupling.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130618-2	I am not going to make myself aware of what the Social Democratic Party thinks, because it changes as fast as a horse can run and that's pretty fast. What I can just say is that the misguided coupling, like Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen again today from the Parliament's platform, allow me to correct again, in the hope that the Social Democratic Party will at least listen to what is being said. I am not saying that they necessarily understand it, but that they are just listening to what is being said. And it is clear that there will be no connection with the fact that, if you get to work longer, any revenue will have to go down the tax. The Prime Minister has made this very clear a month ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130657	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130658	But let me follow up on that, because I heard the Prime Minister also being out in this exercise trying to blur the connection between creating a room for manoeuvre by raising the retirement age and then being able to afford tax relief. We're gonna have to shoot in some middles so there's no exact intersection. I could hear that from the Prime Minister, and I can hear that the Minister for Employment continues to do so today. I think the honesty we heard from Mr. Joachim B. Olsen was more comfortable. He actually said that if it were up to him, the total room for manoeuvre would be for tax cuts. Now the Minister for Employment did not want to go into the question of how much retirement age should be raised and how much revenue it is that you want, and that is where we need to arm ourselves with patience. I now think that some answers are due to the Danes, but we will probably not get on with that. So I would just like to ask the Minister for Employment to confirm that there is only one Treasury in this country, and that this means that if money comes into the treasury because you raise the pensionable age, and money is then taken out to give tax relief, the same fund is the money that comes into and out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130803	Well, I have to say, it's exciting, it's Friday. And it is good that there is a long time left, because the questions can then become even more difficult. Yes, there is only one state account, Mrs Astrid Krag. Well, how far are we going down? A former minister asks a current minister whether there are more state accounts in Denmark. Come on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130826	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130827	What an answer. Well, I think it's a minister with a bad case that has to answer like that. Well, there's one Treasury. Thank you for confirming that. And that also means that if the Treasury gets filled with money from a raised retirement age as the government wants, and then the government then takes money out of that box to give the tax reliefs maybe at the top, what do we know; we can't really get answers to what the government wants with this maneuvering then it's exactly the intersection you're doing everything possible to blur. This is not a question, it is, in fact, just a receipt, because although the Minister was not very much in favour of it, we can see that there is a cross. There is only one treasury, and if you fill it with money by raising the retirement age of the Danes and then then spend that money on tax cuts, then there may well have been all sorts of middle bills, but that is the political reality. So you don't have to answer, sir. Minister, but have a good Friday.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130920	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407130922	Thank you. I am now going to answer the very, very wise question that then came in the second round. It was almost so wise that it deserves an answer. So we are in the situation, Mrs Astrid Krag, both when you have government power and when you are in opposition, that there is both revenue and expenditure and they do not run in different boxes. It's not like we're making three different state accounts. I do not think that was done either when Mrs Astrid Krag was Minister for Health, but we can of course check whether you did so with all the exciting proposals that came in then. There was quite a lot of blood mixed up, so I think I should pass it on to the committee, i.e. whether Mrs Astrid Krag had three state accounts at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131002	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131003	Thank you. I now think that the Minister went a little beyond the question of the four parties that have written a proposal for adoption. There are two points: it says first that the Danish Parliament calls on the government to do what it does to create peace and that does not mean that you should not say anything, it means that you have to tell what you want. The second, and I think this is the most important thing, is to strengthen the opportunity for those who are worn out to withdraw from the labour market. If I haven't slept in class, the minister hasn't mentioned in one word what we do with all those who got stuck when the early retirement scheme was minimized to use the nice Danish language... not a word! I would like to hear from the Minister whether he will say a little bit about what we do with them. Even with the present system, they are getting into a mess. And, as the Minister knows, there are people who are destroyed by going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131058	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131059	So, what is in this proposal for adoption, which has not yet been adopted, because the debate is still going on, is that the Folketing is calling on the government to strengthen the opportunity for those who are worn out to withdraw from the labour market. A great many things can be done there to strengthen that effort. One thing may be based on the fact that you must not be worn out. Something else can be based on looking at the opportunities that exist today. We will, of course, do the same when the government comes up with its proposal. And as I have said a few times, we are not going to launch it today from here on the platform. You're gonna have to wait a little while for us to announce that play.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131142	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131143	The Minister said that I was asked: what could the Minister and in the question of today's consultation say precisely: will the Minister explain the Government's plans to raise the retirement age, etc. etc.? Does that mean that the answer to the question today is: No, the Minister will not? That's sad. Now we have spent two hours warming up to hear what the Minister would like to do. I will not ask questions about unemployment, because we have had a discussion about this, and there we have a common recognition that it is certainly not there that we will be getting strength now if we do not make an extra effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131219	Then it's the minister. Let me just say we're up to three hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131219-2	It's only nice. I don't remember if Mr. Cole... Christian Juhl was present in the Chamber when I made my speech, which was at the beginning of the debate, where I told you what the government thought about the subject that has been announced today, which is not a consultation but a question debate. And I have to say that, of course, I made it very clear what elements the government was emphasising. So I hope there is no doubt about where the government stands. Otherwise, we would not have had the long debate that has been going on here today. It is not because you are in doubt, it is because you disagree, and that is only good. That's why we're here, that's politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131258	Sir. Christian Juhl has been offered another opportunity, but says no. That's exactly the opposite of what happened before. But thank you for that. There are no more questions for the Minister, but we are not finished with the debate yet, because Mr. Karsten Hønge has asked for another round. And it is in the second round that the proposer has five minutes, the other rapporteurs have three minutes, and the minister has five minutes. So far, it's sir. Karsten Hønge, SF, and Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, the Social Democratic Party, who has signed up for the second round, and then we will see if the Minister will also then. But first it's sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131347	After all, the idea of a question debate should be to create some clarity. This debate has done the opposite in some areas. The question remains: does the government stand by its original policy of announcing a later retirement age? Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance have explained in March that initiatives on withdrawal would be announced in the spring. But what is blurring in the air is whether this will mean an increase in the retirement age beyond what has already been agreed. After listening to the Liberal Alliance today, it is clear to me that the government is divided against itself. Yes, even the Conservatives are trying to avoid it by saying that the rapporteur does not represent a party that is in government, but almost just represents a party and, after all, perhaps almost only itself. It does not make much sense to talk about a government proposal if two of the governing parties argue against what is apparently supposed to be government policy. Or what is government policy at all? Does the government want anything but to create insecurity? The only thing the parties can agree on in the proposal for adoption is obviously that the black is the letters. For the content is widely interpreted differently. I think it is ludicrous and, on the other hand, it will fuel increased uncertainty. But who wins the arming on the right wing? Sir. Joachim B. Olsen has called for a bet earlier today from the platform. It won't be easy to put the odds here today. Both the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance have both recently shown themselves to be lions who puff themselves up and roar. But in close contact with the government, they fall down like pile-cut Easter lambs. Both the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party are currently holding diving lambtails in the government's enclosure. 3F has taken an amazingly good initiative by taking the lead in a fine campaign to protect the population from insecurity about retirement age. It would be appropriate if a majority here in the Folketing would send a clear signal to the government: leave all plans for a further increase in retirement age in the drawer. Give the people security. Give every citizen access to some good years as seniors.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131650	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131652	The minister started by saying to me: cheer up Leif Lahn, it's Friday, and there's no need to hang with the mule. Afterwards, the Minister said that he did not agree with what I said in my rapporteur's speech. And I just have to say, thank you very much, sir. Minister, because then I am really, really happy, and then I am not hanging with the mist at all; then I will be in a good mood, and that means that my message went straight in! No, we don't agree with the government on this. We were trying to figure out why it is you're doing it. We really tried that, but no one gave clear answers either to the Minister or to the various rapporteurs. Is it economically necessary to make a higher retirement age? No, it's not financially necessary. There is no need for further reforms, there is no need to do more to raise hands, because we will not be lacking hands. It seems quite economically reasonable. But then there was someone who was very honest, and that is something to be praised here, and that was Mr Liberal Alliance's. Joachim B. Olsen, who actually said that, among other things. is going to use this scope for, as a higher retirement age is going to give, tax relief. And then I got an answer to what I was trying to ask in my rapporteur's speech, that is why it is being done. Now we have been told that it is because all the young people who sit up there and who have to work until they are well over 70 years old, and many of those who are worn out and who cannot do so, have to do so because there has to be room for tax cuts. I thought that was very nice to know. The next thing I had doubts about was whether there is a majority in favour of it. When you heard the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party sitting next to me now, you could hear that they did not agree with this at all. And that means that, in the immediate future, there is not a majority in favour of it. We have some doubts as to whether or not we agree with that text of the agreement, and that is why I asked the Minister and all sorts of others: well, is there an agreement; is there some kind of agreement that we have not seen? Surely there must be, because a government does not go in and continue to work and wants to make a move in relation to the fact that you really want to increase the retirement age if you are aware that there is no majority, or what? Then I became even more in doubt because the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur, Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, stood up and said: I would say that there is a guarantee that there will be a change. And when he says that, I get nervous. Then I get nervous and think, is there a shit deal that the rest of us didn't hear about? Do you agree to change this? And I'm gonna be really nervous about that, because I'm gonna be worried about all these people and about all the run-down people paying for this. So I would say that I look forward very much to an upcoming initiative, which I look forward to very much. And I have no doubt that we will have another debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber or more debates. And I would say to the Minister that I will do so without hanging with the mule; I will actually smile when I go to the platform, because I think it is interesting and also very serious. And, of course, I would also hope that the government, as in all sorts of other cases we have seen, will have to withdraw this because they do not have a majority again. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407131953	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132002	Thank you. I would also like to contribute to the interpretation of what we have got out of this day, and then one might ask: is this not a little waste of time? I guess some of my bourgeois colleagues are thinking that. Maybe the audience too. But no, it is not, because the reason why we have to try to analyse what comes out of the debate is that the bourgeois parties will not provide any clear answers to the very clear questions we are asking. The question is: is it when the debate started and, unfortunately, it is still gone now that it is about to end: is there a majority in the Folketing, or is there not a majority in the Folketing against the government's plans to increase the retirement age? In fact, we have not received an answer to that. Well, the Danish People's Party has said that they do not like it with the words they are now using, but if they were serious, then it was natural that they had entered into a debate with the other parties that disagree with the government's plans and that a joint proposal for adoption had been made. The Danish People's Party has not done so. They have made a proposal for adoption together with their fellow citizens and created a majority in this way, but the proposal for adoption simply does not provide an answer to the question. It is widely interpreted by the parties that have concluded the proposal for adoption. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen interprets it as indicating that sooner or later we will agree on a further increase in retirement age, and the Danish People's Party interprets it in a different way. I still have to conclude: if the Danish People's Party really meant what they said, then they would have made a joint proposal for adoption with the rest of us, who are opposed to a further increase. That is why I must say that I am concerned about the debate we have had today and the conclusion reached by the Danish People's Party, so that they would rather be with the governing parties than they would be with us, as they so agree in words. I am afraid that this is an expression of the fact that the Danish People's Party is moving away from the statements they are making and that there may be some way to follow Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen already has some sort of deal. When I look at the practice of the Danish People's Party for many years, my concern is that the Danish People's Party may have been given promises of further austerity towards refugees and immigrants to pay for once more helping to reduce the conditions of the people who entered the labour market early on. I hope that I will be disappointed in my pessimistic predictions, and I will do everything I can, along with the other opposition parties who are opposed to the government's plans, to convince the Danish People's Party that they should stick to the right side of this discussion. So it is then a promise to the Danish People's Party that I will do what I can to help them adopt a sensible position. However, I must admit that I have been somewhat in doubt after hearing today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132327	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday 18 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132356	The debate is open. The first to take the floor is Mr Seligman. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132410	Thank you. Today we are going to deal with a bill amending the Aliens Act, which stems from the 2016 Finance Act, where a partial element was an agreement to strengthen the control and security efforts in the field of aliens, among other things. by providing PET and FE with electronic access to information in the immigration authorities' processing systems. The aim of the draft law is therefore to strengthen the ability of intelligence services to monitor and investigate whether persons who have obtained residence or seek residence through a visa or by a temporary or permanent residence permit in Denmark are to be considered as a threat to the security of the State. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is a very good idea. We have asked the Minister on several occasions whether our current terrorist screening of refugees and migrants arriving in Denmark is good enough. So the bill, which here helps to ensure that PET and FE preventatively have the opportunity to better check and investigate these people, we warmly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132526	There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132548	Thank you, Mr President. The massive flow of refugees that has taken place against Europe and Denmark makes this proposal, which increases the scope for police intelligence and the defence intelligence services to obtain information electronically about foreigners from the immigration authorities, necessary. That's good. I know that there is a pervasive discussion about the relationship between the increased powers of the secret service on the one hand and the individual legal situation on the other. The fact is that the flow of refugees and mass immigration that has taken place to Denmark requires increased surveillance. The greatest threat today is Islamic terror, and these fanatical darkmen of terror from, for example, the Islamic State know no borders and do not shy away from any means. They can hide in the streams of refugees that go against Europe and, under the cover of asylum rules, gain access to, among other things. Denmark. They can practice terror themselves, or they can spread their spooky propaganda and recruit residents to terror if they come in. So it's a good idea to increase the powers of police intelligence and defense intelligence. We live in a time when the potential terrorist threat is always hanging like a dark cloud over us. Islamism and its increased radicalisation have crowned days in the Middle East as well as in Europe and Denmark, and the recruitment basis is potentially very, very large. In addition, we live in a globalised age where we can move from one end of the globe to the other in a short time. The terrorist threat certainly does not just disappear by itself, it will be there in the years ahead and, in my opinion, just increase, which means that we must in every way refuse to do so in Denmark. This will increase the need now I am looking down at the Minister for Permanent and Enhanced Border Control, which already, I believe, is urgently needed, and this will reinforce the need for monitoring. One can then say that it is sad that it is so. One can dream back a little nostalgically at times when one did not have to resort to such means, but the reason is the liberal asylum policy we have had, the cause is the mass immigration and the refugee flows that have happened to Denmark, and the terrorist threat that is riding time like a mare. That is why DF will vote in favour of the proposal, because it is a good proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132910	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407132918	With the proposal here the government proposes to give PET and Defence Intelligence better opportunities to carry out their work in the fight to keep the kingdom safe. The proposal, which forms part of the 2017 Finance Act, strengthens control and security efforts in the field of aliens. The Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service thus gain direct electronic access to information about foreigners from the alien authorities' registers and systems. The more flexible and extended access means, in short, that the two intelligence services will be given the best conditions for assessing whether a person who has come here would pose a threat to the security of the State. Every day both PET and the Defence Intelligence Service make a solid effort to ensure that we can move freely around the Danish streets without any concern, and unfortunately that effort is still strictly necessary. Nice, Brussels and Paris and other terrible incidents remind us all that a well-functioning intelligence system that can work preventively and effectively is important. It is for the best of all of us that we give them the best working conditions possible, and that is what the bill here gives them. That is why the Left also supports the proposal, and I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that it can also be supported from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133045	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133051	Thank you. After all, the immigration authorities are already able to exchange information with the intelligence services. The foreign authorities have information on foreign nationals and the exchange can take place without the consent of the persons concerned. This has been the case since 2002, and the aim is therefore to combat terrorism and, hopefully, prevent it. The news in this bill is that the intelligence services will be able to retrieve information from a special database, which is administered by the immigration authorities, but which PET and FE have access to at all times of the day. According to the Government, there is no question of PET and FE having access to new information. Now they can just pick them up themselves and hopefully get them a little faster. Of course, in the Enhedslisten we clearly see a need for the authorities, including the intelligence services, to make effective efforts to prevent and combat terrorism, while at the same time we see a clear need for effective democratic control of the secret services. We are totally in line with, for example. The Institute for Human Rights, which in their response to the hearing, stresses the need for the supervision of intelligence services to be extended their competence. But it is an independent discussion, you might say, which doesn't have to have so much to do with this bill. We are immediately positive. We will ask a few questions in the legislative process as to whether there is really no question of access to new information and who is to check what information about aliens that PET and FE have the opportunity to retrieve from the database. But, as I have said, we think it is very sensible at first sight.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133248	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133255	Thank you. This bill makes an existing practice easier as we give PET and FE access to digitally retrieve information from the immigration authorities. These are information that the services already have access to today. With the implementation of the bill, the immigration authorities will no longer act as an intermediary in the gathering of information by intelligence services. It is therefore a matter of making the process more flexible and not of providing the services with material access to information which they do not already have access to under different conditions. The intention is legitimate, namely to try to prevent terrorism in Denmark, and the Liberal Alliance can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133340	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133352	Thank you. This is the first reading of L 173 on the proposal for a law amending the Aliens Act, which deals with giving the Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service access to the immigration authorities' registers, systems, etc. Today, the police intelligence service and the defense intelligence service are to request specific data on foreigners. Instead, this bill will give PET and FE direct access to the immigration authorities' registers and systems and hence the data they have on foreigners. As has already been said, this is not an extension of the amount of data available to PET and FE. On the other hand, this is a change in the access of intelligence services to these data. I think it is important to see this bill in the context of past and also future government bills on the areas of intelligence services and police. Recently, the rules for data deletion in PET and FE were changed so that in future services will not be actively searching for and deleting data that they no longer use. We were very critical of this in the alternative and ended up voting against it for reasons of legal certainty, as it was questionable. In addition, the police have purchased a new system to collect, analyse and provide an overview of all data held and accessible by the police, including publicly available information from e.g.: Facebook. We know that by the end of April we will have to deal first with a bill that will allow the police to use this system. The Institute for Human Rights has already been out to say that they are concerned because they see an unprecedented analysis capacity coming from the police, which in practice will expand mass surveillance in Denmark massively. Having said that, it goes without saying that we must be able to collect data for counter-terrorism purposes. However, this bill contributes to the very massive data collection that is already in place, while at the same time, in previous legislative proposals, we have decided that there is no longer any obligation to delete data when PET and FE no longer need the information. Then there is the supervision of the intelligence services, which we in the alternative believe is far too weak to be able to control this data collection. I therefore very much hope that the Minister will follow the call of the Institute for Human Rights, the IT-Politic Association, the Council for Ethnic Minorities and the Red Cross to strengthen supervision so that it can exercise adequate control over data collection. I look forward to the committee reading where we will be asking questions about these things. As I heard Enhedslisten, I understand that they are going to table roughly the same amendment, so I think we can put one together on supervision. I think it is very, very important if these additional competences are given, that there will be a strengthening of supervision to ensure that we do not just have mass monitoring over which we do not have sufficient control. At first sight, the alternative is sceptical about this bill. I look forward to hearing the Minister on the platform address the particular concerns of the Institute for Human Rights, among others. have expressed and we will table an amendment to tighten up supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133737	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407133749	Thank you. With this law, the government is proposing to provide intelligence services, PET and FE, with electronic access to information in the immigration authorities' registers, so that even more than today we are able to quickly combat terrorism, ensuring that people who have extremely evil intentions do not take seriously the advantage of other people who are on the run, as often happens from the very same terrorists. As we in the Radical Left have understood the proposal, it is already the case today that several rapporteurs also mentioned that the immigration authorities can exchange information with the intelligence services. So the new thing here is that the intelligence services, including the Defense Intelligence Service, will be given additional access. Then they can obtain the information themselves and, so to speak, update it so that it stays in electronic form. We support this immediately in the Radical Left. Then there are a few themes that have also been mentioned by the previous rapporteurs. What is the framework for data storage by intelligence services? How long and in what form should they be stored? I do not think that is quite clear. We will then ask some questions on this unless the Minister can explain it here. The second, which has also been mentioned by several other rapporteurs, is the supervision of intelligence services. This is also very important for the Radical Left. We would also like to strengthen supervision, but it is not a change of supervision that this bill gives us. We therefore support the draft law immediately, but have a few questions to clarify, and we would like answers to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134001	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134011	As the SF rapporteur in this area is unable to be present today, I have to say on behalf of my party the following: the draft law must make it easier for the intelligence services, that is. both PET and FE, to obtain information from the alien authorities. With the bill, the Government will strengthen the intelligence services' ability to follow and investigate whether persons who have obtained or who are seeking residence in Denmark may be considered a threat to the security of the State. SF agrees that the fight against terrorism is important and also believes that intelligence services should play an important role in this regard. We have therefore also supported the strengthening of intelligence services in several cases, including in particular: After the attack on the powder keg. However, strengthening PET and FE must always be seen in the context of legal certainty and it must be looked at whether this is actually necessary. So we're a little skeptical about this bill. It should be noted that PET and FE already have the possibility today of obtaining information from the registers and systems of the alien authorities insofar as disclosure may have an impact on the performance of security tasks by intelligence services. It would certainly be more effective if direct access were to be obtained, but we think it would be more appropriate to obtain the information only after contacting the immigration authorities. At the same time, it is quite unclear what restrictions there are for the services to enter directly and retrieve information from the immigration authorities. This means that there may be an uncertain legal situation for those who are at risk of being monitored. This weakness has been pointed out in a number of consultation responses, not least in which there is reason to note what has come from the Data Protection Agency. The SF awaits committee proceedings before the party takes a final position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134204	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134216	Thank you. And thank you for the positive reception of this bill, I think one can say. The aim of the draft law, as has been said, is simply to give PET and FE a better opportunity to carry out their work. This is important at a time when the terrorist threat to Denmark is serious and at a time when the Islamic State and other militant Islamic groups can continue to seek to exploit the refugee and migrant routes to send people to Europe in order to commit terrorism. At the same time, let me make it clear that, under the law at the request of the secret services, the immigration authorities are already required to provide information which may affect the performance of the security tasks of PET and FE. The information contained in the registers and systems of the immigration authorities may, for example, include: provide a basis for general monitoring and identification of patterns of importance for the fight against terrorism and extremism. However, it is now the case that PET only has limited electronic access to the registers and systems of the immigration authorities, while currently the FE does not have such access. With the bill, the government will ensure that PET and FE will be able to obtain relevant information at all times of the day in the registers and systems of the immigration authorities. The proposed system provides for a flexible administrative solution, which means that the immigration authorities should not act as an intermediary in the gathering of information by intelligence services. The draft law will thus enable PET and FE to carry out their work with, among other things: to ensure that foreigners who may pose a threat to the security of the State are not entitled to enter and reside in Denmark. It is not, however, a question of PET and FE being able to obtain more or more information from the immigration authorities than is already possible today. Let me also briefly mention that the draft law also proposes that in future the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration and the State Administration should be able to hold consultations with authorities in other Schengen countries. Today these consultations are being conducted in practice by the Foreigners' Board on behalf of the Agency for International Recruitment and Integration and the State Administration. Frankly, this is not very appropriate and particularly modern. That is why the draft law also amends the small point. In conclusion, I would just like to thank the rapporteurs for the support that has been given and, of course, I would be happy to respond to the questions they have raised either here or during the committee's proceedings, and I am looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134524	There's one question. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134528	Thank you. The Minister says that PET and FE can already obtain this information today and that they are obtaining relevant information. How will this be done in the future, in view of their being able to search for information for themselves? Will it be the case that they are still assessing in concrete terms whether there is a particular risk to a person and that in that case they are asking for this information, or are they going to what can be said? I hope I have made myself clear enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134616	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134616-2	I will try to answer the question as well as I can at all. I am quite sure that the question was quite precise, but I can at least say that the amount of information that PET and now, as something new, FE will be able to search is the same amount of information that could be searched in before. Such a little popular, it can be said, that in the past, the immigration authorities were a kind of mailbox, where the questions were put together, and then the answer was given to them. But there may be precious hours lost in a case where you suddenly need information, and therefore it is important that there is now 24 hours of access to this information for all 24 hours of the day, i.e. any time it may be. But the information is the same, if I may say so. There has been no extension of powers. The change is that you can apply directly to avoid the waiting time that can be very, very important in this kind of case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134719	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134720	Thank you. Then there is the concern of the Institute for Human Rights, and there is always the balance between unnecessary data collection and the fact that we must, of course, be able to monitor specific suspects. In this context, they propose to extend the supervision of the competence of the secret services. I am, in fact, a little bit unsure whether this is something we could incorporate into this bill or whether it should be done in a completely separate piece of legislation. What I really want to ask the Minister is how the Minister views the concerns of the Institute for Human Rights. Could the Minister help to look at the supervision? Because no one is interested in us monitoring more than is necessary. I also think that everyone agrees that these data should be processed and used in a sensible and legal manner. So can the Minister comment on whether it might be possible to look at whether supervision has the powers they should have and is strong enough in terms of what it looks like today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134825	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134826	There are two things to say about that. Firstly, the supervision of intelligence services does not come under my Ministry, so in my best judgment it will have to be done in another legislative proposal if you want to increase supervision, of course in general, and I assume that is what is being asked for even if the wish was to come out of this bill. Secondly, with regard to the general supervision and control of intelligence services, the government's assessment is that there is already adequate control of intelligence services, and in that this bill does not provide increased powers or increased access to information, but merely facilitates access to information, I do not believe that this should trigger increased control of intelligence services.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134922	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407134924	Is it correct to understand that there is no control on the part of the immigration authorities today when the intelligence services ask for information, whether it is relevant, if I may say so, to provide that information and that therefore there will be no less control on whether the intelligence services are obtaining relevant information in the future than what is currently available?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135002	I would say that in that it is the same amount of information that can now be directly sought rather than asked the Foreigners' Board, there is certainly no change there. Whether or not this information is being checked today I assume that it is they, for example. PET had to apply through the Foreigners' Board, and as they are then handed over, I do not believe that this is the way to answer from the Parliament's platform. So I think that the question must be asked in a confidential form as a written question. I think that is the most appropriate and appropriate way to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135045	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135047	Well, I don't think it's a confidential question, but I'd be happy to put it in writing. It is simply to clarify whether it is correct to understand that when PET or the Defence Intelligence Service contact the immigration authorities today and say that they would like some information about it and it, it is not the case that the staff of the immigration authorities are concerned whether or not it is relevant to provide that information. You just hand over what the intelligence services are asking for. When I ask about this, it is to find out whether this bill means less control than today on what information the intelligence services have access to. I don't think there'll be any less control, but that's why I'm asking. I will also put the question in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135138	As I have said, it is the case today that the answers to the questions that may be asked by PET are given, but there is this rather slow process in it. Now you can apply directly. As far as the control of intelligence services is concerned, in general terms and also in relation to the Foreigners' Agency, I would prefer that we do so in a confidential form and in writing. But immediately the answer is no. There is no less control of PET and FE in isolation after we have adopted this bill than there is now. There is not, so what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen assumes there is quite correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135227	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135244	The debate is open. The first person to speak is Mr Seligman. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135304	Thank you. The draft law here is about the government making a change to the Health Act, which mainly has two elements. The first element is to re-establish free choice in child and youth care for children and young people under the age of 16. At the same time, you will also have a free choice in terms of care. The second element is that the rules and requirements relating to the contact person system will be abolished, i.e. also in the Health Act. Let me make the final element of comments first, that is to say the contact system. It is the case that the professional partners in the health service have actually said that the contact system does not meet what was intended. On the other hand, another model has now been looked at, which includes a patient-responsible doctor, whom the government has discussed with Danske Regions, i.e. the managers of the hospitals. You want to implement a patient-responsible doctor instead. We fully understand that in the Social Democratic Party. In fact, the second element, which was the free choice element, we consider to be a very parade proposal, a proposal with very much ideological weight, but not much effect for the citizens. It is clear that a bourgeois government must also put some prints on it. I think this is gonna be a little fingerprint. What is the legal framework today is, in fact, a change made by the former Socialist-led government back in 2012. And the reason we removed the free choice was because the parties, the clinical dentists out there, but also the municipalities' administrations, said that this gave a lot of bureaucratic trouble to no avail in the world. That's why we changed this rule. That is why I do not believe that the introduction of free choice in child care and youth care for children under the age of 16. I don't think a lot of people are gonna be looking for this arrangement. In any case, until 2012, it turned out that very few people were seeking away from the municipal care of children and youth care and to the private dentists. What we are very aware of in the Socialist Group is that there must be no social inequality here. One could imagine the fact that municipal care for children and youth has said that there is no need for comprehensive and expensive dental regulation, and that there are parents who think that it is going to take place anyway and then go to the private sector and get it done there on public account. That is one of the things we are very aware of in relation to a third reading. Here are some things that need to be described and examined more closely. Because that would be an inequality which is unacceptable in terms of the social democratic attitude towards our health care. In relation to care provision, in which the draft law will also make free choice, it must be said that care provision is very much provided for the very weakest citizens, weak citizens, in whom I do not think there is much room for free choice, and there is therefore some parade proposal about it. It can therefore be said that it is perhaps a tiny bit bizarre to make a free choice for a group that has such great challenges that it is hardly many who want to seek a free choice. I would also like to make another comment on care provision. I believe that care must be given more focus, which is out-of-court and out-of-court. This is the practice of the care of many municipalities. We in the Socialist Group believe that this is the right way to go. That is why I have to say that I have now called it a parade proposal; it is usually such a terminology that I do not really use in my rapporteur's speeches, but that is what I think it is about free choice to a large extent. But because of the fact that this is a proposal for a combination of laws which we very often see when it comes to the health law, I have to say that, otherwise, if some things can be highlighted towards third reading, there is basically social democratic support for the draft law. And I would like to clarify what we are expecting in terms of deepening. The first thing I would like to say is that a very thorough work has been done on the care of care, yes, President, I shall conclude now and we would very much like to have that report from 2016 on the table for a political discussion. And the last thing I want to say is that we would also very much like the draft law to include a clause on evaluation after two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135829	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407135838	Thank you. As part of the Finance Act, it was agreed to reinstate the right of free choice in child and youth care for children under the age of 16 and for care providers. The schemes were abolished by Law No. 1259 amending, inter alia, the health law of December 2012. The aim of the present draft law is to restore these free elections systems. Increased freedom of choice is beneficial to citizens, as the individual is given the opportunity to choose freely a dental care offer appropriate to the patient's specific needs and needs, which the patient is most comfortable with. The bill thus restores freedom of choice in child care and youth care for children under the age of 16 and for carers. With the bill, children under the age of 16 who have chosen to receive dental care from private dental practitioners of their choice will be entitled to dental care allowances. In addition, the bill will allow users of care services to choose in future to receive dental care services from private dental practitioners or clinical dental technicians of their choice on equal terms with the municipality's dental services. There will be no substantive changes to the tasks of municipal dental care services in the draft law. The obligation of municipalities to offer unpaid dental care to children and young people under the age of 18 will also remain unchanged with the bill in the same way as 16- and 17-year-olds will retain the right to free choice of dental care. Finally, the draft law does not mean that the municipalities' obligation to provide care will cease. In relation to the contact scheme, the government agreed with the regions that the contact scheme should be terminated as it does not work as intended. This has also been indicated by a number of patient associations in their response to the hearing, and the chairman of the Medical Association writes in his reply that the contact scheme has not given patients the necessary value. He therefore believes that it is positive that it is replaced by a scheme with a patient-responsible doctor. However, the consultation parties express that it does not remove focus from the intentions behind the contact scheme and underline the importance of implementing a scheme with patients responsible doctors as soon as possible. This is something that the Danish People's Party will follow up on in committee. A number of questions are also raised about the transport of elderly people and people with disabilities, and so can the Minister also explain what driving offers exist today, and if the Minister cannot reply orally, the Minister must send a reply to the committee. So immediately the Danish People's Party supports the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140127	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140130	After all, care for the care of care is an offer that is mainly used by e.g. the elderly are demented, and the criterion of being allowed to access care is that one has very difficulty in using or not being able to use the existing dental care services. And that is why it seems quite absurd that what the bill is about is that you are still free to choose the private dental clinic, that is to say, you are now able to choose the private dental clinic. definition cannot use it. Therefore, I find it hard to understand why the Danish People's Party thinks this is a good idea. After all, money is spent on the proposal, and instead of spending it on what is actually needed in the case of elderly demented people who use care services, it could be that they receive assistance for accompanying or receiving transport assistance in order to get to care. So why has the Danish People's Party prioritised this way, that is to say to spend the money on something that actually doesn't benefit anyone?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140229	I do not think that, on the basis of what the rapporteur says from his place, it can be estimated that it will be of any benefit to us to restore free elections. You can discuss this, and the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten may not agree. This is part of a financial law agreement, and that is where it has been negotiated over in the Ministry of Finance, so of course we support that agreement. In addition, however, we are willing to look at driving arrangements and other things, also in relation to demented people and people with disabilities. The rapporteur also knows that the Danish People's Party is interested in and cares about both the elderly and people with disabilities who are difficult to walk. It was also the case that Dansk Folkeparti fought for 40 million to be allocated to the Danish People's Party. kr., so that the blind could also be part of the driving system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140321	Is there a follow-up question? The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140324	But does the rapporteur not see the oddity of making free choice for a group such as per year? definition • to get access to care services • has very difficulty in using private dental care clinics, that is to say, throwing money at it anyway? Because it costs money to make this free choice. So why does the Danish People's Party give priority to this? Why do you think that makes sense? You could have chosen to spend money on, for example. the mentally ill, who suffer severe dental injuries as a result of their medicine and who today have to pay for dental care themselves. Why don't you spend the money on something like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140357	But the rapporteur is right to say that we could also look at helping the mentally ill, the homeless and others with dental care. The Danish People's Party will do well to do so, and the rapporteur knows very well that our health rapporteur has also spoken out on this, in other words in relation to dental care. It is a priority, and we must always give priority to it. It is an agreement that we have reached, and I understand that the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten disagrees with that, but that is the case with agreements, which we are firmly committed to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140426	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140434	Thank you for the floor. Today is almost a small party day, because we now grant Danish patients even more rights. The health service is the Danes, and it must be reflected in the legislation. Overall, we are today discussing a two-point legislative proposal. One is about reintroducing free choice of dental care for children under 16 years of age who use care care. The second part is the winding-up of the contact point system, which has been found not to function as intended. Fortunately, Danish patients will have a better arrangement, namely the patient responsible doctor, who will help to create the coherence, security and overview of the individual patient. It can be turbulent to be sick. It is bad in itself, but if you also need to use your strength to navigate our large and sometimes incalculable health care, it can be a challenge to get well. As a patient, you must be able to keep focus with the relatives on getting well, so that you can quickly return to active leisure, family and working life. Actually, I think most patients dream of that. In the Left, we dream of more freedom... freedom for the individual to choose exactly the solution or offer that suits the person you are or the family you are. This is certainly not the first time we have debated freedom and the right to free elections in this Chamber. I said earlier on the platform here that the Left has no sacred cows in relation to public or private. We firmly believe that people are different and have different needs and preferences throughout their lives, and that is whether we are talking dental care, day care or care for the elderly. The free choice offers opportunities for the individual citizen and for the individual family, including for the citizens associated with care. They are often vulnerable people who need security and can experience great insecurity in many shifts in their daily lives. Those people will have the opportunity, with the amendment of the law here, to continue with the dentist they have had throughout their lives and who they know and who they feel safe about. Through the 00s, the Danish health system was revolutionised, among other things. on the basis of the Left's focus on free elections. I am aware that the issue of free elections in this Chamber often leads to an ideological fight, but from here must sound a clear call to put the weapon down and instead of the right focus on those that are all about: the Danes and Danish patients, and how we can put the citizen before the system. The position of the Left is clear. We want less system and more citizen. Strengthening free elections is a step in the right direction. For us in the Left, the health of the Danes has always been a priority. Last year alone, we raised health by 2.4 billion. kr. That is far more than what the former Socialist Government proposed. I am incredibly pleased that the free-election system and thus the bill here are also the implementation of the financial law agreement concluded by the government with the Danish People's Party. It is a strong starting point that together we signal that we want to strengthen free choice and give even more opportunities to Danish patients and therefore now also put action behind words. The Left can support the bill as put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140745	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140749	I promised the rapporteur that before we started the debate, so I will of course keep that. I think this proposal is really interesting because, to me, it completely reveals what the priority of the Left is. The most important thing for the Left in this case is that private people can get on the ground, and then it doesn't matter that it costs money for the public. It's not about saving money, it costs money. This means more bureaucracy and very heavy administration for the municipalities, but it doesn't matter, as long as the private can get on the ground. It also doesn't matter that it doesn't provide more health. So I have a proposal for the rapporteur, and that is that instead of what is used to be said, it is said that the most important thing for the Left is that the public sector should drive less on the gallon. One could also say that we need less health for the money, because that is the essence of this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140839	It is true that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur previously promised me a question, and I have indeed been curious about what would now come from the Enhedslisten. I would just like to say to the Enhedslisten rapporteur that, for us in the Left, it is important that we strengthen the free choice, that we put the citizen before the system and that we get more health for the money. I can only say to the rapporteur that I have been so delighted to read the positive consultation answers, which are, of course, there. is from the Children's Council, from the Elders Case, from the Dentist Association, from the PTO, i.e. the organization of dental practitioners, and from the National Association of Clinical Dental Technicians, which points out that it is quite right to strengthen the free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140925	I would ask you to press the button if you wish to speak for another comment. The questioner doesn't do that in this case, so remember it in the future. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407140933	Thank you, President. We don't usually do that, but we want to do that today. Second Vice-President Okay, I've been on maternity leave and everything can happen here in the Parliamentary Chamber of Renewal, I understand, that is very fine. After all, a whole series of paradeslogans came back, but the rapporteur does not relate to what is the real content of the bill, namely that it costs us not to know how much money to introduce it here, despite the fact that there is no health benefit whatsoever for the citizens concerned. On the contrary, it means more bureaucracy for the municipalities, without anyone benefiting from it. Honestly, that's pure ideology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141014	I would like to admit so much that the Enhedslisten and the Left may not agree entirely on how far one should go to strengthen the free choice. What we are doing here is giving families the opportunity to choose exactly the kind of dental care that best suits the individual family, and for us in the Left it is just crucial that, whether we are talking day care, elderly care or dental care, there is something to choose from. And that is the opportunity that we are now putting forward for the Danish families.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141050	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs Stine Brix as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141057	Thank you, President. Allow me to translate. When the government says free choice here, it really means more privatisation of our welfare. The bill says that children under the age of 16 and care providers are bound to the municipal dental care services. I've had a little fun over this choice of words. When it is said bound, patients are imagined lying in straps in the dentist's chair and being forced by an evil public dental care. I should like to remind you that, unlike adults, children in Denmark have children, for example. access to unpaid dental care. If that is what we are talking about when it is said bound, I actually think that there are many people like me who want to trade. I can find really, very many other places in our dental care where I'd rather spend money than on this particular area. The second group, which the government also talks about, in addition to the children, is the users of care provision. What are their characteristics? To be searched for care, you must per. definition have a physical or mental impairment which makes it difficult if not impossible to use the existing dental care services. That is, for example, the case. In particular, elderly demented people who are in care and who, because of their illness, need a specially tailor-made offer which, moreover, most often comes out to them. It is quite contradictory in itself that you have an offer which is about those who cannot use the ordinary dental care, and then you give them free choice. They can't do anything with that. As far as I'm concerned, this bill is purely ideological. The free elections were abolished for these groups back in 2012. There were good reasons for that. Very few used it, and it cost disproportionately many resources to manage these schemes. I think it is striking, perhaps revealing, that the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, in connection with the Finance Act, set aside 32 million. kr. For this proposal over four years, that's 8 million. kr. a year. So you're willing to spend 32 million. kr. of our common money on something that doesn't give more dental health. I think it is revealing, because what we usually hear from the Liberal Alliance and the Left in particular is that the postponement of competition, the free choice of tender, will mean that we can get more for our welfare crowns. There is therefore a clear realization here that it costs the public when we are going into this kind of exercise. I don't understand that priority. As I said, there are incredibly many areas of dental health that really need us to spend the money on them. This applies to mentally ill people who are injured by the medication they take. They have to pay for their dental care. Those who have paradentosis have abnormally high dental bills and have to pay for themselves. They could also have been used to deal with the major problem that we know some of the care providers have, namely that they themselves have to pay for escorts and transportation to the dental clinic. It seems to me quite clear that this is not about people's dental health. It's about ideology, it's about opening up to private people to enter this market. As the bill says, private dental clinics are expected to increase their turnover by 5-7 million. kr. a year. I wonder if that's not what's interesting to the government in this context. In addition, it is also an extremely central management of how the municipalities organise their dental offerings here. It is the complete opposite of what the government goes out and says they will. You want to debureaucratize, you don't want to run retail, I don't know. This was heard when the government presented its plan to the public sector a few days ago. But here you go in and decide on behalf of each municipality how the dental care offer for children and care care should be organised. As you've probably guessed, we can't support this part of the bill. The second part of the bill on the contact mechanism, which will be abolished for the benefit of the patient doctor, we can support. We think that is sensible. If you want to split the bill into two, we will vote for that part, but otherwise it will all be a no from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141528	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141532	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for her speech. I just have one question. I understand that the rapporteur is very concerned about strengthening dental health for children and young people. At least that was something that was mentioned several times. After all, the former S-R-SF government increased the user fee for precisely the young segment by 185%. The Enhedslisten was a support party. Will the Enhedslisten not just clarify how to increase dental health for young people by 185 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141607	I do not know what the rapporteur is referring to. She may have the opportunity to elaborate on this in her next remark. However, I would say in general terms that user fees on dental care are a gigantic problem and that it weakens dental health and increases inequality massively. That is also why we used all the finance negotiations we could get close to to to try to lower the user fee on dental care. We did so in relation to those at risk, where we managed to get through with a proposal that lowered the user fee for them. We did so in relation to people who have various rare diseases that made them have huge dental bills they had to pay for themselves. We went in and put a ceiling on that, so it's max. could be a few thousand kroner a year. So we've done everything we could every single time to try and get the user fee down. My vision for the dental sector is that it will be part of the public health service, just as we know it from all sorts of other areas. I have never understood why we have to pay ourselves if we have diseases in our teeth, while we do not have to pay anything in all sorts of other areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141709	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141712	If I do not remember quite wrong, it was part of a financial law agreement, but I do not think the rapporteur really answered it by saying that it was 185%. More expensive to go to the dentist for the young. The Enhedslisten was a support party for the previous government. It may well be that I just did not listen well enough, but I did not hear that the rapporteur put his finger on where it just strengthened the dental health of young people, of which I understand the rapporteur is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141742	Honestly, I actually answered, but I can say it again. Increasing user charges does not strengthen dental health. There is no doubt about that. I do not know exactly what the rapporteur is referring to, and that is why I call for clarification. Now the rapporteur has no further brief comments. But it does not strengthen dental health, and that is why we have also worked against user fees in all areas we could get close to, and we continue to do so. I do not understand the government's priority here at all, that is to say, spending money on something that doesn't get anything out of it. There are so many areas that need improvement in the field of dental health, but that is how you choose to give priority to this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141817	The next question is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141820	Thank you. First of all, I should like to make a clarification. I believe that what Jane Heitmann is talking about is the decision taken by the S-R-SF government in 2013, which changed the dental inspection grant and made it more expensive to go to a dentist. But what I would like to ask is: can the rapporteur say whether there is anything in this proposal that puts some people worse than they were before?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141852	Nobody gets worse off than they were before. I just think it's totally fucked up to spend money on something that isn't anybody getting anything out of. In other words, you say that you give a free choice to a group, as per per. definition has very, very difficult to use the free choice for anything if they can use it at all. I simply do not understand that the Liberal Alliance thinks this is a good way of spending public money. I think it is irresponsible, but I can then understand, when I read the proposal, that what you think is really interesting about the proposal is that private individuals can increase their turnover. It actually reveals very well what you think is important. It is not about dental health; it is not about the citizens who are pretending it is about; it is about private companies being able to access a market on which the public is currently sitting because we have a municipal dental care that takes care of these groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407141940	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142000	Thank you. The draft law extends citizens' right to free choice of healthcare, and free choice is not surprisingly always very welcome in the Liberal Alliance. I can only support the fact that children under the age of 16 are allowed to choose for themselves which dentist they want to use. It is always nice when citizens can choose the solutions that best meet their individual needs. I can also support the abolition of the contact system, as it has proved not to work as intended and does not bring value to patients. Instead, a system is introduced with patients responsible doctors and the patient responsible doctor must ensure that there is always one who bears overall responsibility for the patient's care course. It should contribute to safety and clarify who is responsible not only for a single operation or episode, but for the entire patient's course of treatment. In this way, more attention must be paid to the specific wishes and needs of the individual patient. The patient responsible doctor must ensure that cooperation is carried out across professional groups and departments. This does not mean that a patient will always be met by the same doctor or always only have to talk to the same doctor. After all, doctors also have time off from time to time, and there is often a need for specialists to take care of special tasks. However, it will always be the patient responsible doctor who has overall responsibility for the overall course. LA can fully support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142139	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142154	Thank you for that, President. I stand for Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative in the discussion of this bill, L 167. In the alternative, we are in favour of the proposal, at least elements of it, but there are also elements to which we have reservations. We welcome the free choice of care and for young people under the age of 16, as we believe it strengthens the transition from child care to adult dental care. This can provide greater flexibility and greater security for citizens. Freedom of choice is a strengthening of citizens' rights. We agree with that. We also believe that there should be freedom under responsibility, in other words in relation to the economy we put behind free elections, and here it might be interesting to look at things. This is actually where our main concern is, because there is an uncertainty as to whether it will affect the quality of public dental care. The following is a quote from a consultation answer from the Danish Dental Care Association: "Indeed, the Danish Dental Association must point out that the association does not welcome the re-establishment of the free choice system, as the municipal dental care provider does and historically has done a very well done job. Here the focus has been on the qualification of educational and dental work in relation to the patient groups concerned. ▪ So the consequence of how the bill affects public dental care, we would like clarification, and this could also be through the 2016 report referred to by the Social Democratic rapporteur. In relation to the contact scheme, the alternative clearly believes that it is positive and important that patients in hospital have a contact person. So we are very positive about that part of the bill and, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we would like to ask the Minister whether it is possible to divide the proposal into two if there is an interest in it. In any case, we would very much like to support the part relating to the contact mechanism, and then we would like to have the elements of care discussed. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142419	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next speaker is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142429	I've been a brief glimpse back in history to see what the argument was a few years ago when this was changed. Sometimes it can be a very good exercise for you not to take the same discussion again, but just to be reminded of what it really was that was the good argument not very long ago. At that time, my predecessor, as a radical health rapporteur, said, and it was Camilla Hersom, and I quote: 'As regards the proposal for simplification of the rules in municipal dental care, these are free choice arrangements which very, very few citizens use, but which nevertheless require the establishment and maintenance of a number of administrative procedures. Then I could choose to tease the government a little bit about why one chooses to reinstate something that was administratively troublesome, while at the same time talking very much about debureaucratisation and even put a minister at the forefront of public innovation. I could also choose to be nice to the government and just start by asking what has changed since then, so that one now believes that this will not lead primarily to administrative trouble. I hope the Minister can give a good answer to that. For me, this isn't very ideological. It's more a question of something practical, i.e. whether it makes sense to do this or whether it doesn't make sense. And my best estimate is that today's cut is the right place for young people under 16 as well as for care. If you should finally go in and look at it, I actually like the model we have today for the 16-18-year-olds, where it is the individual municipal council that decides whether it makes sense, rather than that it is something that is forced down on the municipalities in here from the Folketing. The Radical Left is sceptical about that part. On the other hand, I'd like to convince myself to change the contact system, so we're gonna have to see if this ends up being split up. Otherwise, however, the Radical Left is at least sceptical about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142657	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Trine Torp as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142705	The SF's health rapporteur, Kirsten Normann Andersen, cannot be present today, and that is why I am standing here. And I'll make it a little short. The SF is opposed to the proposal to re-establish free choice in the field of dentistry. As pointed out by both KL and the Danish Dental Association, the proposal is cost-effective in the municipalities, both as a result of increased administrative costs and because private dental practitioners are not bound by fixed prices for services. In the SF's optics, the proposal is just part of the government's usual crusade for further competition in public sector services, and that is, despite the fact that there is no massive civil demand for the reinstatement of private care and children and young people-tooth care, probably because we have good public offerings. On the contrary, there is a risk of undermining public services and even undermining the current context of care, for example. The organization of dental practitioners points out in their hearing that it is more than doubtful whether the private dental practitioners will carry out the preventive tasks of care facilities in the care centres. By their very nature, private dental practitioners will focus most on the treatment part. This is where the money lies and, unlike the municipalities, they do not have any direct financial incentives for good prevention of dental health among older citizens. In relation to the second part of the proposal on the winding-up of the contact mechanism, we would like to look at some of the concerns which, among other things, concern the future work of the committee. The Children's Council has, in relation to the patient responsible doctor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142855	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have come to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407142905	Thank you. The purpose of one part of the bill is to re-establish free choice in child care and youth care for children under the age of 16 as well as for care providers. This will allow families to choose the dental care offer that best suits their individual needs. With the possibility of free choice, for example, it will. be able to allow their children to use the private dentist or dental care provider they use. For care providers, the bill means that in future they will be able to make use of the dental care offer of a private dental practitioner or a clinical dental technician of their choice. So you can choose the dentist with whom you are most comfortable. Conservatives want to strengthen the individual's right to decide for themselves and the individual family's right to decide for themselves and can therefore support that part of the bill. The second part of the bill is that the contact mechanism should be phased out, as it has been found that the scheme is not working as intended and is therefore not beneficial to patients. Among other things, it has. a number of professional organisations and patient associations indicated. The contact person scheme has been implemented very differently, and patients have often not had so much contact with their contact person. Many of the patients often suffer from more diseases and may therefore experience having more contacts; the arrangement that has been in force does not take into account. Instead of now, it has been agreed to introduce a patient-responsible doctor who would like to contribute to a better coherence and security in the hospital system for the individual. Conservatives can support both parts of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143107	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Conservatives. Then I give the floor to the acting Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143120	Thank you for that, President. Let me thank all the rapporteurs for the comments on the draft law, including the ideological ones. It is always nice on a Friday afternoon with a small ideological debate on the rapporteur, and then, of course, thanks to those of the rapporteurs who say they want to support the bill. It has been mentioned that the purpose of this bill is to extend the free choice of healthcare for citizens, because the bill reintroduces the right of free choice of dental care for children under the age of 16 and for care providers. If the bill is implemented, then these patient groups will again have the right to choose freely the dental care services that best suit the patient's specific wishes and needs and are something they are most comfortable with. Then it has also been mentioned that with the bill there will be a winding-up of the contact system. The proposal is based, among other things, on: in that a number of actors, both medical organisations and patient associations, have indicated that the scheme does not work as intended and therefore does not bring the value to the patients initially intended. This is why the former government concluded an agreement with Danske Regioner in connection with the 2017 Economic Agreement and now seeks the Danish Parliament's agreement to dismantle the scheme, because the parties have agreed to introduce patients responsible doctors into the Danish healthcare system, which among other things. contribute to more coherent patient outcomes and also to increased security. So I hope that the draft law here will receive a good committee reading and I will, of course, answer any questions that may come in writing from the committee along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143312	Thank you, Minister. There are some brief comments. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143316	Thank you. I would like to raise a question with the Minister, because I am very surprised at the fact that the government wants freedom of choice, why not look at all the professional groups that can be exciting to be included. Danish dental practitioners, who can both prevent and can make diagnoses, but who can't do really complicated dental work, why aren't they thought into this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143344	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143346	Because we have specifically looked at what freedom of choice was abolished under the former SR government, and there we will just target it for dental care for children under 16 and saw the users of care care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143359	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143401	It sounds very conservative and old-fashioned that you don't look at what kind of society you have. It must also be very strange to be a professional group which has the competences for what is being trained for it, but for whom the government is apparently blindfolded. I would like to put another question to the Minister. It is: I said in my rapporteur's speech that I would very much like the Minister, together with the rapporteurs of the various parties, to discuss why the work of the Danish Health Service and reports and analyses on the modernisation of care provision from 2016 are not mentioned at all in the context of the changes in care provision that are now being proposed. Therefore, I just want to hear whether the Minister intends to call the rapporteurs for a discussion of the 2016 report in the drawer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143449	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143450	Uh, it is a dangerous question to ask a working health minister what reports are in the drawer of the Ministry of Health. I simply do not dare to give a clear answer here on what reports are in the drawer, but I would very much like to reply to it in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143505	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143507	What has changed in a few years since what was a regulatory simplification to abolish was not supposed to be regulatory trouble to reinstate now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143521	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143522	I think that the debate here at first reading has actually shown clearly what frustrations one can have in relation to municipal bureaucracy. I must be quite honest and say that I also find it quite annoying that in the municipalities it is said that it should cost citizens the right to have a free choice, that they will, as it were, collect money for it in relation to having to deal with the right of free choice. But it is now the case that the municipal administration has to work everything else equally, and that is the cost of establishing a free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143602	Here you go, Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143604	But can the Minister not see that the government can end up spending an incredibly long time going through all the rules to see where to debureaucratize if, at the same time, we introduce something that we know is causing administrative trouble?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143621	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143622	I believe that it is the greatest task and obligation of the current government to always have a keen eye on how our public sector works and how we remember that it is about people before it is about systems. That is why these two things are connected, although it may sound paradoxical that one would like there to be a free choice, but that freedom of choice also means that one has to have a case-by-case in order to have a free choice. But that does not change the fact that we are putting debureaucratisation at the top of the agenda when I have just launched a major cohesion reform and a management commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143701	Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143704	Thank you. When you look at the legislative proposal under economic and administrative consequences for the public, you will see that it does not say what the proposal costs. And I would like to ask the Minister if we will be informed before we deal with it in the third reading. Because I have noticed that money was set aside for it in the Finance Act, 8 million. I have received a reply from the Minister saying that it does not cost it anyway. But do we get information on how much it costs before we have to deal with it in a third way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143731	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143732	It is true that an amount equal to 8 million has been set aside. kr. per year, in relation to the collection of the municipalities in the course of the proceedings. But I can also confirm that negotiations are going on with the KL at the same time, because we also allow ourselves to question whether it is really true that 8 million will be charged. kr. annual to ensure that citizens are given the opportunity to make use of free elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143803	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143804	However, the Minister did not answer the question of whether, before the third reading, we will be told what the government thinks this proposal costs. The 8 million. kr. It is not quite that way, because when this scheme was abolished, it was thought that it was a saving of 7.6 million. kr., so it was money that was then taken from the municipalities, I guess. So it is not completely out of thin air by 8 million. kr. But my question is this: do we get that information before we vote on the legislative proposal? I think it is good style for us to know what we spend on money when we vote on legislative proposals. This is what the government usually demands of the rest of us when we table motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143844	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143845	I actually agree with that is good style. In the past, it has been estimated at 7.6 million. kr. Every year, and here and now the estimate is 8 million. This is what we are calling for in the answers that have been given to committee questions. And there are, as I said, current negotiations with the KL on the more precise amount, and I have an ambition that it would be good to have been able to obtain it before the third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143917	Thank you. Then it's mr. Roger Matthiesen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143920	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's speech. I have one further further question, but first of all I would like to thank the Minister for being open to the possibility of dividing up the proposal, now that there are five parties that might have an interest in it. The answer to this question is: Is there any thought in relation to citizens with physical or mental impairment in relation to the care of the care of the elderly, to whom this extra cost should go?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407143959	This proposal does not, as such, provide further guidance on it. When we talk about introducing a free choice also in care care, it is a lot about the continuity of the individual. You may have had a dentist for a lifetime that you are comfortable with, and if you get into a situation where you become demented, your next of kin should be able to still have that conversation with the demented about whether you continue with the dentist you are comfortable with or whether you should be part of care. So as such, no further counselling efforts are planned in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144038	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144053	The debate is open. It's the working minister for health first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144114	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the floor. First of all, I would like to thank the authors of the motion, the Danish People's Party, for the motion for a resolution on a service check on the patient compensation system. Proposers are calling for better transparency in cases of patient injury compensation. Amongst other things, demand is being made. specific proposals on how to ensure that patients who have received compensation do not subsequently risk having to pay it back. The question is also asked in which cases compensation under the Labour Damage Act takes precedence over compensation under the patient insurance rules. Let me start by saying that I agree that the patient compensation scheme is complicated and therefore not always understandable to the individual patient or relative. And that is precisely why I would like to help look at what we can do to make the scheme more transparent. In fact, I have here some very concrete proposals on how to make the scheme more transparent. Firstly, I would like to propose that we extend the patient compensation scheme. The scheme has been extended by several stages with new treatment sites and new groups of people, so it may now be a little difficult for patients to understand when they can seek compensation and when they cannot. I propose a simpler approach in which we allow the scheme to cover all damage caused by authorised healthcare professionals in connection with investigation, treatment or the like. And in this context, I would suggest that we provide for the possibility of seeking compensation if you suffer psychological damage after being treated with a medicine, for example. if you develop depression after being treated with malaria medicine. For today it is only possible to obtain compensation for damage caused by a medicinal product which causes physical damage. So that was the one suggestion. The second proposal on my part would be to protect compensation paid so that compensation paid under decisions which have not been appealed against within the time limit for appeal could not be recovered. Unfortunately, the two initiatives I am proposing here are not free of charge. There's never anything like that. I would therefore like to say that these two amendments will require agreement on the necessary funding. And I am aware of the financing solution of the proposers. I myself also have some proposals for financing, and my proposal is, overall, that we find the necessary funds and the calculation will be approx. 22 million kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. My proposal is to invite the health rapporteurs from the parliamentary parties to a meeting where we can then discuss both initiatives more closely and, of course, the funding of the initiatives. In any case, it is my belief that these initiatives will go a long way towards responding to the questioner's proposal to ask for a service check in the first place. In this context, I do not wish to support the resolution on a service inspection, but I do support the fact that we are actually already passing through the service inspection and going directly into the work clothes with these specific proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144513	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144521	Thank you for the Minister's positive approach. There is a desire for models precisely in relation to service checks, so I hear that the Minister is accommodating in backing up. Because today, although you have received your patient replacement and no party has complained within three months, there are several elements. When the Minister makes proposals here today, is that in relation to the first sub-item, that is, that which means that once one has been recognised that one has suffered a certain damage and subsequently receives compensation, then the Board of Appeal must not subsequently be able to go in and redeploy it several years later? Is that the element the Minister has with us today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144604	The minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144605	Yeah, the element I brought with me is what I call a conservation. It is clear that a decision has a period during which the decision can be appealed, and one must, like that period, pass. However, I fully agree with the problem we have today and of which we have also seen concrete examples, namely that many years later we see a sudden decision coming. That is one of the elements we are talking about. It is technical and it is a very difficult area, so I would recommend that we go ahead in the workshop, so to speak, to find the solution to this. But yes, my proposal is to protect the compensation already paid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144646	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144647	As rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, I am not the health rapporteur, so I expect that invitation also applies to the rapporteur of the authors of the motion. The Minister then recognizes that there are also some other shortcomings in that once you have been recognised a compensation and the amount may be very low, for example. 240,000 kroner, if you have had your leg or other amputated, can you also be afraid as a patient to appeal against that decision at the risk of suddenly having your entire compensation taken away? Is there also a solution to the models proposed by the Ministry on the basis of this motion for a resolution? I guess that's why the Ministry's been working on some solutions. Is there a solution to that part too?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144730	Let me start by saying that the invitation will of course also include the psychiatry rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, section 71, etc., so that it is given. In relation to whether a patient dares to complain about a compensation decision because he thinks the amount is too small, it is simply too difficult to stand and say anything specific about it. It is of course important that we still have the periods of appeal, i.e. the possibility of appealing against a decision, and whether one responds to it as a recipient of compensation or as those who have been ordered to pay compensation are always individual in the specific cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144816	Thank you. Then we have reached the rapporteur's line, and that is first Mr President. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407144830	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that it is my view and, I think, a general view that we actually have a good system here in Denmark when it comes to the possibility of complaining about errors and injuries that have occurred in the health care system, and also a good system in terms of getting awarded and assessed compensation. But, of course, we constantly need the laws and systems that we have to be evaluated and that we make the necessary adjustments so that they are always up to date, that is, within the framework of what is right and fair. The subject raised by the proposers here, I raised with the Minister of Health back in autumn 2016, and we had a meeting with the Ministry of Health in November 2016. When I stand here as rapporteur, I really feel a little annoying in time that we have not received the reports that the Minister has made here in the past. I would like the Ministry to have worked more quickly towards what we actually agreed at the rapporteur's meeting to be put into effect and that is perhaps why the proposers have tabled this motion for a resolution. As a starting point, there is a need to do a service check. That is why we also support the Socialist side of the House for this to be done, but if it is the case that the Minister invites us to a debate in the group of rapporteurs, we will of course also accept that invitation. After all, our system should not bear the stamp of unnecessary bureaucracy and process. We are seeking rapid change from the Socialist side where patients, citizens and relatives will benefit from rapid change. That is why I would like to conclude by saying that we support the motion for a resolution in itself, but if the further process of the resolution is overtaken by a discussion in the Ministry, that is, of course, what we are bringing with us, because there is a need to clarify the points raised in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145048	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145108	Today we are debating a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party on a service check of the patient compensation system. This is an important issue, and it is an important matter which the Danish People's Party is addressing here. I would like to pay tribute to the Danish People's Party's rapporteur for the initiative. We need strong pointers in the Danish health care system. A fair and manageable patient compensation system is essential for the security we as patients must be able to lean on as we move around in the Danish healthcare system. There is no doubt that we in Denmark have a health service that may have beauty stains, but which generally provides treatment of extremely high quality. It is important for me to stress that it is my very clear impression that every day our healthcare professionals are working hard to provide their best and learn from the mistakes that will inevitably happen when people treat people. As the current Minister for Health mentioned, the Minister will convene discussions on the precisely the patient damage and appeal system. We fully support that on the Left side. Especially in view of the fact that we share the ambition of a more transparent compensation system, so that in future we do not have to read in the press about sad cases where previously paid compensations after several years are claimed back. However, I am a little unsure about the financing model proposed by the Danish People's Party, but I think that during the discussions in the rapporteur's circle in connection with the service check we would naturally have to discuss funding options. The Left can support a joint report, if that is what is at stake, if there is a majority in favour of it, and then we expect a summons from the Minister to discuss a service check on the patient compensation and appeal system. We can support the changes proposed in concrete terms by the Minister, including the extension of the area of compensation, so if you suffer psychological damage after having been treated with a medicinal product, you are entitled to compensation, as well as the preservation of compensation paid, so that payments made under specific decisions which are not subject to appeal within the time limit for appeal cannot be recovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145330	Thank you. There is a comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145335	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I do not understand why the rapporteur does not agree with the financing of this proposal, because there is, of course, funding in relation to reflows and, among other things, in relation to. We are looking at this, of course. Compared with the cases currently under way, a number of collections have been made by the regions. How does the rapporteur think we can solve the challenge of the pending cases that are now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145408	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, I am somewhat uncertain about the financing model proposed by the Danish People's Party, and I am, among other things. In relation to the fact that it is fines that should be able to finance it, and to that I just have to be honest and say that I am a little unsure about it. But it may be that the rapporteur will put it into practice later and say what is actually envisaged. However, I am quite open to the fact that we are also discussing the funding during the discussions in the rapporteur's circle to which the Minister has just invited us. In relation to the cases pending, I also think it would be quite appropriate for us in the rapporteur's group to discuss how we deal with them. I think this is a real problem, because decisions have been taken, and we have seen some cases in which, a long time after the decision, the funds paid out have been recovered. I find that problematic. But I also think that when the Minister is so kind as to invite us to take up the debate in the rapporteur's circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145506	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145508	In the Danish People's Party, we want action to take place, and we want it to happen soon, because there are some patients in trouble here. There are some patients who have lived without support, they have lost their compensation, and we find this extremely unfair. I want you to get that compensation back. That is why my question to the rapporteur is this: if you get compensation and it is perhaps very low, does the rapporteur recognise that you can also be afraid of even appealing against the decision you have been given because you are afraid of having your compensation withdrawn and, so to speak, have to settle for a much smaller amount than you really should have received?
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145550	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145551	I think there are many things. When you are in a situation where you have made a claim or have indicated to the system that you think you are entitled to compensation, there are many things that you quite overall and in fact I think it is very human too can be insecure and worried about. So I think we should also acknowledge that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145617	Thank you. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145625	You have to imagine the situation, for example. has been compensated for a totally damaged car and that the compensation paid has been used to buy a new car and that one is living in a situation where one is so confident that now is the case out of the world. Then you are suddenly told that you couldn't get a replacement for the car that has been damaged and you have to pay back your insurance money. That is how the situation is for some of the people who have been compensated in the field of patient insurance, and that was the example of Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF, who is not here today, and my deputy, Mr. Peder Hvelplund, wrote about when they wrote that post in Jyllands-Posten about this case. We have a group of citizens who have been compensated and have been absolutely sure that this matter was closed. I wonder if they too have spent the money on moving forward in their lives and on what they needed to spend money on, and so they have had to pay it back. I think most people in this Parliament can see that is not fair. That is why I am also listening to the Minister wishing to look into the matter. I think it is positive that there are signs that something can be done in this area. The second amendment which the Minister has put forward to discuss, of course, we would also like to be involved in talking about. So we're gonna be happy to come when we land an invitation in our inbox, and we're gonna talk about how we're gonna solve these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145806	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407145822	Thank you. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for bringing up this very relevant proposal. I fully agree with the content. It is not at all reasonable for authorities to be able to claim reimbursement of compensation received by patients in good faith. Once you have received compensation, you have to be able to rely on the money. In recent times, there have been several examples of the regions having more overturned decisions on patients' compensation. It is, of course, fair that the region should be able to complain about the decision if they are accused of mishandling, but this must be done in the right order. The region must complain and the case must be closed before compensation is paid, for where on earth should the affected patient get the money from money which can reasonably have already been spent to remedy the illness in which the person concerned is living? Time limits and processing times must be as short as possible, but no matter how long it may take, no one can benefit from compensation if the amount cannot be kept with certainty. Perhaps it may be possible to decide parts of the matter, although other aspects are still being dealt with. In this way, it might be possible to pay out the part which is not uncertain or which is not appealed. Exactly how it should be worked together, I do not know at the moment, but I have talked to working health minister Karen Ellemann a long time ago about this problem, and she fully agrees that this is the direction the government will take. After all, we have heard concrete proposals today for resolving the problem, and we have also received the invitation for negotiations, and I am very pleased and should be grateful for that. That is why this motion for a resolution will in some way be somewhat superfluous because initiatives have been taken to do exactly what the authors of the motion for a resolution want. I am also slightly in doubt about the funding of this, as it appears. That is why we say no to the proposal, but we are as much in agreement as we can possibly be, in the content itself, and I look forward to the further negotiations so that we get there as we agree we should. For of course, no patients should be able to be required to repay a paid compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150058	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150106	Thank you for that, President. With regard to B 68, I should just like to say once again that I am the standin of our health rapporteur, Pernille Schnoor, and I would like to begin by saying that I hope she has also been invited to a rapporteur's discussion with the Minister in the near future. As a starting point, of course, we are very much in favour of the resolution. A service check of our systems in the public sector is always a good idea. The examination of the problematic claims that have been made seems to me to have been fine, so I will not repeat it. However, I would like to agree with the rapporteur of LA that perhaps a little change should be made to the order in which the regions go out and assess these matters. And I would really like some statistics to be provided in the course of discussions with the Minister as to what is the reason for the increase in these withdrawals of assessments and how many we are talking about so that we can get something to talk about there too. However, I would certainly look forward to our health rapporteur being allowed to take part in the forthcoming negotiations. And if this happens before the next reading of the motion for a resolution, I think that is fine too. So those were the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150234	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150238	Thank you for that, President. Some people are terribly caught up, even though they have behaved completely according to the book. They have waited to spend the money they have been paid out in compensation until after the deadline for appeal, and yet after a long time, they have been hit by suddenly being asked to pay back all the money after they have spent it. This is something in which all parties in the Folketing have been involved. As the Socialist rapporteur also mentioned, we have been at a meeting of the Ministry on this, and we got quite a long way in that discussion about what we wanted to do about it. I think I can say without insulting the government that nothing has really happened since then. And then, if you think things are going a little slow, you can do two things. One can do as the Danish People's Party and table a motion for a resolution. I am perhaps a little surprised that, as a parliamentary basis, we have not just gone over to the Minister and in a meeting asked for something to be done about it. But now we have this resolution today. This has led the Minister to put forward some concrete ideas on which we can continue to work. There's the element of finding a solution to this, so that the appeal time is the time limit, so you can know that once it's gone, you can be sure not to have to pay the money back. And the Minister is also suggesting that we can look at extending the area of compensation. We in the Radical Left think that sounds good. We wish we could have saved each other's time so we wouldn't be here now, but we were already in the ministry. But now the invitation has arrived, and we thank you very much for it. We look forward to coming over to the ministry and tying the loop on this and doing something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150433	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150437	Unfortunately, the SF's health rapporteur cannot be present here either. That is why I am explaining the SF's position. The SF supports the proposal. It is of no use that we have built up a patient injury system which first finds that serious mistakes have been made in the treatment and pays a large amount of compensation to a number of citizens who have actually suffered both wounds and scars, and that citizens can then find that the compensation is perhaps one year later reduced or taken from them. It's just not gonna work. Therefore, it would be a very good idea for the government to now be required to make concrete proposals to ensure that, in the situation in which patients have received compensation at first instance in good faith and where the other party has not, within the three-month period laid down by the law, appealed against the decision, has not subsequently to repay the compensation. However, I am also aware that the Minister has now taken an initiative, and of course we look forward to this being included in the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150543	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150550	Thank you. The motion for a resolution here proposes to carry out a service check on the patient compensation system, including drawing up concrete proposals on how to ensure that patients who have received compensation in good faith are not subsequently liable to have to pay it back. In the media there has been some mention of a number of cases in which patients have had to repay compensation already awarded to the regions several years after their payment. It seems unreasonable. This happens when the appeal body has to deal with a complaint about a level of compensation and finds that the patient has not yet received compensation. This then means that a decision in which compensation has been awarded at first instance will be lifted, and the regions will then have to claim reimbursement of paid patients' compensation if a compensation decision is reversed. In the media, a case has also been mentioned in which a patient should receive compensation from a dentist but could not get the compensation paid anyway after the dentist had gone bankrupt. It also seems unreasonable. On the conservative side, we would very much like to discuss at a health rapporteur's meeting with the Minister how we can come closer to a simpler and more transparent regime for patient replacements. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution here, but instead we look forward to discussing various initiatives, such as those of the Minister. was mentioned in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150738	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407150747	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has tabled this resolution because we want to improve the patient compensation system and it has long been a great wish of the Danish People's Party. If you follow all the questions that you have asked, ever since Nick Hækkerup was Minister for Health, and until Sophie Løhde promised that we would come to discussions, you will see our interest in having this changed. That is why, as we are wondering why we have put it forward, I can answer from the platform here on why we have put it forward. It is because of slowness and we want action, and that is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution calling on the government to draw up concrete proposals on how to ensure that patients who have received compensation do not subsequently risk having to pay their compensation, and we also ask the government to call the parties of the Folketing for negotiations on what the resolution concerns. The Danish People's Party considers it inappropriate for patients who have been mistreated in our healthcare system because when can a patient be sure to keep his or her paid compensation, which is recognised at first instance? Even if the region or the patient has not appealed within three months, there are no guarantees. A case has several elements, so even if the patient has been successful and has not complained about the other decisions in a case and has received recognition of his injury and has received compensation, for example. subsequently, the patient may be re-evaluated and the patient may end up with years after having to pay his or her compensation. In total, the regions have called for approx. 54 million kr. back from patients. We have just raised several issues on this issue, and we have also been promised discussions at the time, but unfortunately no solutions have been found for patients who are in a jam and who are in a jam. The replacement system is not appropriate when, as a patient in good faith, you have received a replacement and, for example, you have received a replacement. The Board of Appeal shall then reschedule the compensation and amend the decision. Several regions have also budgeted to make reimbursement claims for patients' replacements. The Danish People's Party also finds it incredibly inappropriate that the system we have today can also prevent many from complaining about the amount of compensation. I know of a man who was supposed to be in surgery for bladder neck cancer, but ends with amputation of his leg. The doctor who performed the surgery believed that there had been an accidental incident which indicates in medical language that something that should not have happened had happened and the doctor therefore sends the case to the patient replacement. The case will then be dealt with in 2014, and the citizen will then be paid his compensation of approx. 270,000 kr., but he doesn't think it was very much in relation to his loss of dependency, and he had lost some of his quality of life when he was an active tennis player, but it ends up paying back all his compensation, as it is now believed that the amputation is an accidental complication. So first he loses his leg and then the state takes his compensation back. Another case concerns a man who needs to be operated on for nerve damage. According to his doctor, the man had to have a screw sitting in a fracture of his ankle, and it is therefore believed that this was the reason why the man had genes with his foot. When the doctor had opened up and messed around the foot, the doctor sees that there is no screw sitting. The surgery had then been unnecessary, but the doctor had not arranged for an X - ray to be taken before surgery. The doctor then receives criticism from the Disciplinary Board, which says that the doctor acted significantly under the standard of generally accepted professional standard at the time of treatment. The husband was also paid compensation and none of the parties complained within the three months. The patient therefore believes that he can start using his replacement, but this should not happen as the doctor approx. 10 months after complaints, after which the Board of Appeal reverses the case to the disadvantage of the patient. Despite the fact that the man has subsequently been through several courses to find some medication that could relieve, has received solid pain treatment with methadone, the man has constant pain and has subsequently been through another course of surgery where he had a backstring operation consisting of a pain stimulator that with electrodes in the back of the spinal cord can inhibit the pain impulses from reaching the brain so that the pain is no longer recorded as severe pain. Unfortunately, that operation failed and the man has today lost his job and has now been awarded flex jobs, he is in constant pain and has now been met with a refund claim of the region. Unfortunately, there are many of these examples, and patients cannot run their own affairs either. They do not have the resources and therefore have to hire expensive lawyers, which they also have to pay, to take their case to court. Many have lost their jobs, they have lost some of their ability to function, and they have lost some of the identity they had before. These patients have been injured in our health system, and then they have to fight for fair treatment. We, as a society, cannot be familiar with this. That is why I also previously wrote a post, which Stine Brix has also mentioned, together with my colleagues Peder Hvelplund and Kirsten Normann Andersen, and as Stine also said, we started the post like this: Imagine that years ago you were replaced by a car that was completely damaged. You have used the insurance to buy a new car and now live in the sure assurance that now that matter is out of the world. Suddenly one day you'll be told that you couldn't get replaced after all, and you'll be asked to pay back the insurance money. This is the case right now with the patient insurance area, where a number of patients have complained about the damage they have suffered in the health care system. ▪ In relation to the car, you can also think about whether there is something wrong with the taxator, and that is why we in the Danish People's Party want action. We need to get together and find solutions to this challenge. It is simply not right that you should first be awarded compensation and then be in danger of having to pay it back. That is why I look forward to the Minister calling for negotiations as soon as possible. It is actually also funny that we should not just say from the platform that we support the proposal, because we support everything else. It seems as if the Danish People's Party is not going to win with this motion for a resolution. But if we do not find a solution, I certainly hope that there will be a majority in favour of the resolution. Depending on the time process, we have to see how things are going. In any case, I would like to thank all those who support the resolution, and I look forward to the negotiations at the Ministry, which I hope will be convened very soon so that we can find a solution for patients who have been injured in our health system as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407151550	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. I should just like to add that Stine is the Enhedslisten rapporteur. You can get excited. It doesn't matter much either. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170407151623	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 18 April 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. The meeting is closed, and I can just wish everyone good Easter.
