ParlaMint-DK_20170906125932	The meeting is open. From a member of the Folketing Eva Flyvholm, who has been on leave, I have received notification that from 1 September 2017 she could again meet at the Tinget. Bruno Jerup's duties as a temporary member of the Folketing ceased from that date. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 25 August 2017, it was decided that the responsibility for IT operations relating to the Academy of Music of Southern Denmark was transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation. The message will appear in Parliamentstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 25 August 2017 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to the basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user administration, information security tasks relating to senior data centres, contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations related to the Academy of Southern Denmark is transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen The Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed a member of the Folketing Anni Matthiesen as a member of the South Schleswig Committee from 1 September 2017 and for the remainder of the current term of office instead of Kim Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130049	Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130059	Thank you. When I take the floor here at second reading, it is because it has been a long time since we had the first reading and we in the Socialist Group believe that this is simply too important a legislative proposal to allow it to pass without comment here at second reading. The reason for the government's bill is, of course, that solar cells fall in price very quickly, and this is obviously a positive development, which means that solar cells can play an increasingly important role in the energy system of the future. All the more regrettable is the fact that, with this bill, the government is once again creating uncertainty in the PV market. Indeed, the intervention of the proposed law affects the PV industry and PV owners in industry and general housing at short notice and in fact with retroactive effect. It's unfair, and that's why the Social Democrats can't support this bill. Around the tenants of the general housing, it is highly questionable that in future, as was otherwise politically agreed, they will not be able to take part in the green conversion and align solar cells on the roof with, for example, the parcel house owners. Similarly, it is deeply questionable that the intervention will mean that a great many stores and the like will have their PV investment deteriorated even though it has been done long ago and under other conditions. The government's behaviour is simply not fair, and the unstable framework conditions created by the government lead to greater uncertainty about investment in renewable energy, which in turn makes the conversion more expensive. Social democracy is not alone in its criticism. The consultation responses from both the first and the second hearings also show a quite harsh criticism of the government's intervention. There are three main points on which criticism is based. Firstly, criticism of the retroactive effect of the intervention. This creates great uncertainty for both existing owners of solar cells and for future potential owners. This is simply bad legal practice. Secondly, criticism of the fact that the government is implementing another hoofsa solution. Several organisations criticise the government for their stop and go approach to the PV market and underline the need for a long-term plan for PV expansion in Denmark. Thirdly, criticism of the unfortunate consequences for general housing associations. The action will have a significant impact on general floor buildings, and it considers social democracy to be highly critical. The criticism falls hard from BL - Denmark's General Housing, but it is perhaps particularly worth noting that clear criticism has also been expressed from Danish Construction, Agriculture & Food and Danish Business. The government doesn't have many supporters here. The Government claims that developments in the PV sector require changes and it proposes urgent action which, unfortunately, does not solve the problems seriously. The government should, instead of much earlier, have submitted the tax and subsidy analysis and, on that basis, should have invited negotiations for an appropriate arrangement of the tax system and future developments in the PV sector. We are, of course, very happy to enter into this discussion. I should like to welcome the Radical Left and say that they support the Social Democrats' criticism. Finally, I would just like to mention that the Social Democrats want to promote, do not hamper green energy, and that is why we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130442	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130445	Thank you. I do not disagree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that it is inappropriate for us to have an aid scheme for sunshine, which means that we have to make repeated interventions after action. This is unsatisfactory and needs to be corrected so that we can have a longer-term solution. But what puzzles me is that this time the Social Democrats do not support this intervention, but on the contrary will let things continue to get out of hand. In the past, it has been the case that the Social Democrats have supported all the interventions that have taken place on the basis of that justification, I remember that it was financially responsible to intervene because things were getting out of hand and a hole had been created in the treasury. Why is it that one has changed one's mind now and will not intervene? Is it because you are no longer in government and no longer responsible for the money box?
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130535	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130536	No, that's not it. That is because a number of changes have now been made along the way in the system in relation to solar cells, and the time has come for us to have a plan that can keep. The people in the country who invest in solar cells must be able to trust that what we adopt in here and the agreements we make and the settlements we make with each other will also hold true. We can't be familiar with making this kind of decision in the Folketing, which means that people who have invested in good faith now get one over their noses. And that's why we're gonna start discussing this and putting together a plan that can hold up and not make these hoofsa solutions. And then it's really weird that you've done one thing after another without thinking properly about what this is really leading to. I think there are grounds for criticism, and that is what I am raising today, and then I hope we can ask the Minister to get a planning work under way that will ensure good development in the PV sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130647	Sir. Mikkel Dencker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130649	But I think that until we get the long-term solution that I can hear the Social Democratic Party want, and it supports the Danish People's Party so that we want it to be so that we have to adapt to the system that is already there and navigate it. And there is just the fact that it seems that the arrangements are running out of hand once again with another big hole in the treasury, and we cannot just sit back and watch that while we complain that no long-term solution has yet come. In the Danish People's Party we want both the long-term but also the short-term solution right here and now. Why is it that the Social Democratic Party doesn't want the short-term solution so we can stop this hole?
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130729	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130730	Because we think it's unfair. It is still the case that private solar cell owners have better advantages than those that are now going to show up, for example. general housing. We have plenty of people who live for rent and who cannot be part of the adventure that is in relation to solar cells cannot help to ensure that alternative energy is used, which we at least want to promote. That is why we are now saying: stop, we must now have the long-term planning, and we must not let anyone suffer with retroactive effect. And maybe it's one of the worst things that ever happened... that it's retroactive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130805	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Danielsen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130809	Thank you for that, President. I am particularly sensitive to two points which the rapporteur makes several times, namely that it is legislation with retroactive effect and that it is urgent legislation. Can I ask the rapporteur just to clarify what it is considered to be legislation with retroactive effect? After all, this is legislation which will only take effect from 1 April 2018. And in the case of urgent legislation, this is a piece of legislation which was announced before the summer recess. So I do not quite see that this is urgent legislation and that it is retroactive. In addition, I am very much leaning on my colleagues from the comments of the Danish People's Party about the rather curious fact that financial responsibility was present with the Social Democratic Party when one was in government, but apparently does not give as much weight now that one is in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130859	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130900	We are certainly financially responsible. We also believe that financial responsibility should be exercised for the people who have invested in these measures under certain conditions. And when those conditions change, so that you cannot act in the same way and do not get the same terms as those under which you had invested, then we think it is unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130926	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906130928	With regard to the large plant, which is regarded as an industrial plant, it is aware that there can be changes in legislation and there are clear rules on how they can be dealt with. And then there are those plants under 6 kW, which are private households' plants etc., for which this bill will only have effect in 2032. I mean, I don't think it has anything to do with urgent legislation or legislation with retroactive effect. I have to admit that I think that this is evidence of a certain amount of frivolity since you were in government, on the part of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131004	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131005	It might also be that the social democracy and other parties outside the country, which do not support this proposal, were seen as serious partners because we stand by what we have concluded agreements on. So I do not think the rapporteur is right. We strongly demand long-term planning in the area of solar cells so that both those who produce solar cells, those who install them and those who buy them can count on what is being said and what is being adopted from in here so that the cat is not bought in the bag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131041	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur who is Mr. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131049	Thank you. I shall say for the Danish People's Party that in the more than 3 months that have passed since we had the first reading, there has been no change in the position of the Danish People's Party on the bill here. We regard this as an intervention against an outdated solar system, in which, unfortunately, the way in which we support solar cells does not take into account the technological developments that are taking place in this area. As a result, it is becoming increasingly attractive to set up solar cells with the aid that is available, and it also creates a gap in the Treasury. There is then a need to take action and stop it. That is why we support the bill here too. However, I would also like to say, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said at first reading, that we are calling for a long-term solution, in which the way in which solar cells are supported is in a way in which support is stepped up in line with technological developments, so that the aid, at the moment that the solar cells can run on market conditions, will automatically cease. If we can have a system of that mechanism, yes, then we will be free from the kind of interventions that we have had several of over the last 4-5 years. So the Danish People's Party still supports away the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131214	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131219	Now many questions have been asked in this matter, and there are among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to ask whether the Minister considers this to be a matter of conciliation, i.e. whether it is a matter of energy conciliation. The answer to that has been given in the affirmative. That is why I think it is a little strange that we should be dealing with a legislative proposal which we should have dealt with in the energy conciliation circle, and there we could have found some solution which could have been a different solution from the one contained in this draft law. I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur agrees that this is something that should actually have been dealt with in the energy conciliation circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131257	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131258	I can't answer that exactly. The energy agreement that is in place is, after all, some years old. I would say that, given that there are agreed frameworks on the PV system, which have been exceeded for some time now, a solution should be found. And because unfortunately there are a number of parties in the Folketing who do not want to help solve the problem here, it must be done by means of legislation. Because we cannot just ignore the fact that we have a hole in the treasury, which there is at least a minority in the Folketing who will not intervene against, and by doing so they believe that they can block it by calling it conciliation material.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131342	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131343	Well, it's a settlement drug, and then there's a 918 MW framework in the energy settlement. After all, that framework was not exceeded at the time when the bill was tabled, so it would actually have been perfectly reasonable for the Minister to have come to the energy conciliation circle and had said: we have an expectation that this will grow wildly towards 2030. However, we are in a situation where the things that have emerged in committee have clearly indicated that with the applications currently being made, there is no indication that this is going to explode. So we could have actually quietly taken a few meetings in the energy conciliation circle and tried to come up with a system which was a solution that the energy conciliation circle could have joined. Does the rapporteur not see that this has not exploded at this stage in terms of solar power expansion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131433	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131435	I have to say that with the figures presented in the legislative proposal, things seem to explode far beyond what has been agreed in the energy conciliation circle. And that means something has to be done. Then it is regrettable that there are so many parties who seem to think it is quite fine that the framework agreed in an agreement should be blown up. They really think that's just fine, and they just want to keep going. But there are also some parties that have to take responsibility for the money box, and that is what is being done by means of intervention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131503	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131507	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party something. He says that we would also like to see a longer-term solution to this. I would like to ask whether this bill contributes to a longer-term solution. Because what my good colleague has put forward is calling the conciliation circle so that you can see if you can find a way to get things straight. Because I believe that the rapporteur must agree with me that uncertainty is poisonous for investment. We can just see what's going on with the car business. When you make a mess of things, nobody wants to invest in confidence. And people have to have confidence in investing in something, and solar PV is the small man's energy plant, although they also exist in general homes and in companies etc. It's part of the green transition. And that is why uncertainty means that nobody wants to invest in it. So the next question must also be whether the Danish People's Party thinks it is good that people produce their own power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131605	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131606	But to the end, I can say that it is good that people want to produce their own stream, as well as it is good if people want to produce their own carrots. They must do so for our sakes. If we then also need support to produce the flow or carrots, that is a political matter, and that is where we have to decide whether and how we want it. The first question asked by the questioner was whether the Danish People's Party sees this bill as part of the long-term solution. I can say no to that very briefly. I see this as a short-term solution to a challenge that is in the current model. And, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, we would like to see the model of solar aid that we now have abolished with a long-term solution which would reduce aid in line with technological developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131659	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131700	I just want to confirm that the rapporteur himself says that this is some kind of fiction, or whatever you might call it. So, the Danish People's Party could use its powers to say that we want a solution to this, and that we are dissatisfied with it, and that we are very responsible and come up and come down here and what else you can say. And so we will contribute to that long-term solution, as the rapporteur says is important. And then when I ask you if this bill contributes to this being a long-term solution, you say no. Why, then, is it adopted instead of having the conciliation circle convened? If you put some pressure on the minister and the minister does not have a majority, he has to call the conciliation circle to get it done. You can do that if there are these things that you think you should have removed. Why not choose that strategy rather than just say yes to a patch solution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131749	Well, I just have to say that I don't think this bill is a hoax. I regard this as a responsible legislative proposal which will remedy an unsustainable situation. I just cannot understand that the Social Democracy does not support the responsibility of the government and the Danish People's Party by adopting it here next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131813	Then it is Mrs Karin Gaardsted for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131815	I would just like to ask the rapporteur a brief question: will the rapporteur and his party help to put pressure on the minister for a long-term solution in the field of solar cells?
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131828	I do not know how to define pressure, but we agree that we want a long-term solution. And I think that is what I am saying on several occasions, and I intend to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131839	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906131853	It's kind of a weird case. First of all, this case should have been handled in the energy reconciliation circle. I have no doubt about that, and I believe that we could have found some good solutions there as well. Then there has been one problem all the way through, namely whether the information was correct, and I think that is a serious problem. In the context of a legislative proposal, like some consultation answers, it has to be said that these rules need to be changed in the interests of the EU's ability to allow national support systems, and that is not true when you reject that consultation response. Then you ask whether the EU's de minimis rules could not be an opportunity to ensure that there could be limited national support for solar cells, and then you get a negative answer. Then you have to ask again and refer to concrete experiences from France, and then you get an answer which refers to the Treasury's reply and that they have therefore given a wrong answer at an earlier stage. In other words, the whole legislative proposal is based on a wrong premise if it is the case that you want to change this because you have some demands in the European Union about what you cannot do nationally. I think it is deeply attacking that this kind of information is being misused to promote a legislative proposal that is interfering with the PV expansion in Denmark. It is only some of the largest plants in Denmark where it collides with what can be held in the EU by aid rules, so I think it is deeply attackable. Then there is the question of what installations this bill relates to. Yes, what did the Minister say at first reading? He said: "As a result of the EU rules on State aid, the draft law means that a number of existing plants will have to move from hourly net settlement to instant settlement of the electricity tax. It is only possible to exempt the small private plants of not more than 6 kW, which the Government proposes to maintain on hourly net settlements and only allows for a momentary settlement from 2032. We have then tried to ask whether it really was the case that there were perhaps 85,000 domestic plants which did not deteriorate their conditions before 2032 and the Minister replied in the first instance: thus, existing renewable energy installations in households of up to 6 kW per year. the household, which is subject to the applicable hourly tax exemption, could continue to benefit from this until and including November 2032. That's a pretty precise sentence. Then some writings begin to appear in Jyllands-Posten, which indicates that there has been another plan. We then ask and try to clarify whether the Minister, when answering questions back at the beginning of August, was aware that Energinet.dk had plans to change the rules for the smaller plants in households. And he won't answer that. Then we have received an answer yesterday, which in fact confirms that when he answered question 3, the Minister was well aware that Energinet.dk was changing the rules for these over 80,000 plants that are out on the rooftops of private households. I would like to hear from the Minister when the Minister was aware that there was a process in that way and that Energinet.dk would change the rules for the installations otherwise described will be exempted in this law. For then it would have been most honest to say it at first reading of the draft law instead of pretending that there are some 80 000 plants which are not affected by the draft law. Now we are in the process of changing the conditions for all solar installations in Denmark. However, when they are now affected by other measures, it was appropriate to provide information at that time. I think there is too much in these PV cases which indicate that it is the Ministry of Finance who is trying to control all energy policy in Denmark, and I think this is extremely inappropriate. It is also strange to see that when it comes to national aid for biogas, it can be allowed to accelerate out there. In the draft budget that has been put forward, we can accept that there is a prospect that over three years there will be subsidies of 0.5 billion. kr., but when it comes to having a solar PV expansion, which might result in a government expense of approx. 60 million kr. Every year, it's something that needs to be pulled into the hand brake. This hatefulness towards solar installations I cannot understand at all, and so it is not just a question of market forces doing things best. We have security of supply to maintain in Denmark. We want power around the clock all day. That is, of course, the level we want. If we look into the future and listen to what you say, not what politicians say, but what scientists say, we can hear that there are some who say that it will be smart when we have so much wind power that there will be 20 per cent. electricity from solar cells into the optimal energy mix, and then we need a little storage capacity, and then we can make sure that there is not a surplus of power in very much time. So 20%. We should actually be aiming, and then we are sucking around at 21⁄2%, and year after year we are trying to make all kinds of interventions to keep the expansion down. This is completely insane. We should say thank you to those actors who would like to put up solar cells. I think it is deeply attacking that we have here a case in which there have been intentions that solar cells could also be placed on the rooftops of general housing organisations and, as such, one could own a solar plant, and the Minister has been out to air, that now there was just a solution and that one was ready to implement it and that one did not have time to implement it. For then there will be a legislative proposal which, in fact, completely undermines what has already been agreed and discussed over several years, and there have been several ministers in it. One has not managed to solve it and come up with some solution where we can also have solar cells on our general homes, and that is deeply crazy. We should then take a process in which we play with the players who are, and we cannot expect companies to set up solar cells if it is the case that confidence in long-term framework conditions is constantly undermined. That's what's happening to this bill, and it's one of the most unfortunate things. Because what do you do? Yeah, well, I guess you go after putting some solar cells in your own system. You choose that these are battery solutions that you combine with solar cells, and that is a really bad solution. Now I can't see how much time it's been here. I have approx. Five more minutes, or is it four? It might be nice to know how much time there is left. Button and nap, 3 minutes). Three minutes. Thank you. I think it is essential to play with the players on the market. When you experience that you have a supply and you try to find out what the level can be at larger plants and you arrive at an exceptionally low amount of aid of 13 øre per year. kilowatt-hour for 20 years, then there is something that indicates that we had to adjust on some prices, and we could do that in the energy reconciliation circle. It is very possible that we can get it even further down, and then it could be important to have discussions of it instead of this stop for solar cells that we are experiencing all the time. I think it's a pity we have to deal with this bill in the second and third stages now. We should have taken it seriously in the energy reconciliation circle and found a solution that could in such a way ensure that there continues to be a solar expansion in Denmark. But this is so driven by the Ministry of Finance, and I really wish that the ministry was moved out, preferably to Ringkøbing, as long as possible, where they can bother the least possible Danes, and if anyone is proposing 20 km further west, I am, in fact, open to it. Because it cannot be reasonable for the Ministry of Finance to dictate our energy policy. Then there are certain parts that can be exempted because there is a political will to support some farmers in relation to some biogas, but when it comes to solar cells, you are tough. Then the Ministry of Finance will have solutions where you can sleep calmly, even if the sun rises tomorrow, and you know that there will be no extra costs. I think it's a way too rigid a way to control everything. So there are several things in the Finance Act that do not know in advance what exactly the cost will be and as long as we have not reached 20%. solar power in our electricity supply, I really think we should play with those players who want to put up solar cells, but that is not what we achieve with the bill we have here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906132756	Thank you. We are trying to find out for tomorrow, when there is a great debate, that is, how much speaking time you have again. Sir. Thomas Danielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906132807	Thank you for that, President. Now I did not just take the floor, because I have not changed my position since the first reading, and therefore it is not customary to take the floor for a second reading unless some new positions have emerged there. I can then hear that the rapporteur gave the same speech at second reading as the rapporteur at first reading, and that is also quite fine, and I have no problem with that. However, I cannot help but bear in mind that the rapporteur says that this is contrary to our agreement in the energy conciliation circle. We have an agreement there on exactly 918 MW. Does the rapporteur not agree that we expect to achieve this 918 MW? In relation to the future, where we are currently negotiating long-term framework conditions for solar energy in the energy conciliation circle, does the rapporteur not agree that this is precisely what we are negotiating in the energy conciliation circle, i.e. because all parties in the Folketing naturally want stable framework conditions for our renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170906132904	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906132905	Thank you. I fully recognise that there is an energy conciliation that says 918 MW and when we looked at the data that were at first reading, we were very far from the 918 MW. Now, through the committee procedure, we have been told that there is an additional application of 100 MW, so it looks as if you are coming over. But that was not the reality when we had the first reading, and I do not even recognise this projection, where the Minister is trying to make it up to 2 200 MW by 2030. As far as the future is concerned, I would like to say that it is, in fact, only an agreement that goes until 2020, and that is of course not very long-term. I do not know how much we have to reveal here about negotiations in the energy conciliation circle, but if I were to express a criticism of that, I think that this technology-neutral procurement is not the solution, because it is not toothpaste that should be bought. In this way, we need to support a renewable energy development which would like to ensure security of supply and would also like to do so in a way that is as cheap as possible. And when we have this point, we want to go up to 20%. solar in our electricity supply, it is really important that we promote the sun, because one cannot expect that there are companies out there that can set up solar cells and have the good solutions, if that is the case, that they die here in the next few years because landwinds outcompete the large solar installations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133028	Sir. Thomas Danielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133030	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. It was, in fact, simply to welcome the agreement that we are reaching our agreement from the energy conciliation circle and that there are no parties in that circle that run from any agreement. I understand that one would of course like to be in opposition to the government, but with all due respect we were just warned that the forecasts said that we would achieve our goal, so it was only due care to alert it even before the summer break, why we did this. But thank you for your confirmation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133107	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133108	I didn't hear any questions, but I'd like to answer anyway. If we were to start from the energy conciliation and the things that are, I think it would be very best to look at the most expensive so-called renewable energy, i.e. to look at the increased cost of biogas expansion. Why do you want to let it accelerate? When the cleanest renewable energy source, as there is, we can discuss whether it is sun or wind, but we are at least over in the fact that sun and wind compete to be the cleanest renewable energy • is rising a little, and there might be a prospect of adjusting it so that we could get more for the money in the total energy reconciliation, we are completely open to it. So that is the adjustment we would very much like to take part in discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133156	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur is not present, we move on to Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133212	Thank you. While the stopper is now off, I just want to point out what I think is the problem with this proposal that has been put forward. It is, of course, that pointing to this solution creates an incentive for people to go home and consider investing in battery solutions. Both companies and private individuals may go home and consider this, and we have recently seen at several conferences where the rapporteurs in this Chamber were present, Aalborg University's analysis of how it is with storage technologies in Denmark, and battery storage is the most expensive. It's not that it's 10%. 20% or 20%. More expensive, it is a factor 10 times 100 times more expensive than other energy storage solutions that exist. That is why, in my opinion, this proposal, L 214, will create a social imbalance. This will provide an incentive for a lot of misinvestments to be made that will allow us to have small energy islands around the country. Instead, the socio-economic smart thing would be that we made a solution that allows us to focus on making efficient and cheap energy storage solutions in the collective network. Whether it be in the electricity grid, the gas grid or the heating network, there are many different offers, but this solution is at least the most expensive and most inappropriate solution for which we create an incentive. There are obvious solutions. Where solar power technology is right now, I could well imagine a solution that goes back to the annual bill, but lays down, for example. 15 øre on each kWh sold to the network as a kind of remuneration for the investments and maintenance of the network that need to be made in order to receive and store the solar power that comes in that way. I hope that these are the kinds of solutions that are being looked at in the conciliation circle. We are the only ones who are not in the negotiations, but I think: why wait? Why not go straight to such a solution, which is, as it were, free of aid, but which allows people to choose a plant, install it and then pay just a small contribution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133451	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Radical Left is covered by the Social Democracy, the SF is not present, so it seems that no more people have wanted to speak or wanted to speak. In any case, this means that the President is standing up, that the speaking time is over for the speaker. That's always true. I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. As no one else wishes to speak, the debate is closed and we can proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133544	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170906133559	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, 7 September 2017 at 6 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
