ParlaMint-DK_20170221130010	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Martin Henriksen (DF), Dan Jørgensen (S) and Karsten Hønge (SF) and others.: Bill No. L 135 (Proposal for a law amending the law on foreigners. Jacob Mark (SF) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF): Request no. F 42 (The government has stated in the government's constitution that the social heritage must be broken, so how will the government in the forthcoming municipal agreement and with the forthcoming day-offer reform (and the corresponding 580 million). kr.) ensure that those ambitions are met and will the government stand up to the goal of ensuring that the standards in the country's day-care institutions do not deteriorate in the coming years, but are improved?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130054	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130138	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130146	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 112 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130222	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130238	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 111 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), 0 abstentions 0]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130309	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130327	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130359	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130418	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130430	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130439	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130510	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130528	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 15 (EL and ALT), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130603	No amendments have been tabled. Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130623	Thank you. We are going to vote on this proposal to impose a micro-tax on shares and derivatives, and I know that there are many parties here in the Folketing who will vote for it, and I am very pleased about that. There is enhanced cooperation in Europe, where ten countries have gone further by saying that the financial system must therefore also contribute, both because it is fair, because it can provide some money in a rather sluggish treasury, and because it can also dampen the wildest fluctuations in the financial markets. It is quite obvious that we are so undertaxing the whole financial sector when we ask ordinary people to pay quite a lot of their wage income in tax and when we have taxes on a lot of other things. But this whole area is out of the question. And just today, the finance ministers from the ten countries are meeting in Brussels to discuss precisely how to move forward along this path. France has put on the lead, and it seems that something is going to happen along this road, and that is why it is quite absurd if Denmark is not to join in too. That is why I hope that some of the parties here in the Danish Parliament, who may have wobbled slightly in wanting to vote in favour of this proposal, will nevertheless do so. It is a motion for a resolution, so it has to go into government offices anyway. And perhaps you could say that some of those who have shaken the whole world economy, the financial system, are also contributing just a tiny bit. But this micro-tax will still contribute 7 billion. kr. to the Danish Treasury a year. So I think we can demand that it is not too much to ask. However, I would like to thank the parties, including the Social Democrats, who are so supportive of this. It looks brighter at least in relation to a coming change of government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130821	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130828	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 51 (S, EL, ALT and SF), against 59 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130908	Does anyone wish to speak? There is a rapporteur on the platform, so I would ask you to remain calm so that you can hear what the rapporteur says. Here you go, sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130941	Thank you. The bill we're dealing with here, L 114...
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130952	Wait a minute. There is a rapporteur on the platform and he cannot hear what he himself says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221130957	The bill we are discussing here, No. L 114, is about the future regulation of Danish agriculture and future livestock regulation. What we see when we talk to agriculture is that we demand calm and stability for the framework conditions that apply. One would like to know that the way in which Danish agriculture is regulated is stable and that one can count on the framework conditions when going to the bank and when planning one's farm. In this light, we find it quite questionable that the government is hurrying almost every bill relating to the food and agriculture package through the Folketing. It is inappropriate, and it is questionable, for the committee to have so little time to deal with a legislative proposal. I think there are sensible perspectives in the way the legislative proposal regulates. We may also have some concerns about this, and that is why I believe that we need to have the opportunity to get the legislative proposal back in committee. I shall then, on behalf of the Radical Left and the Social Democrats, call for us to have the opportunity to deal with this legislative proposal in committee and for us to submit a supplementary report on it. So in those words, I shall ask for the bill to be brought back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131114	Thank you to the rapporteur. As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. ] 1-6 omitted]. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131134	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131150	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, elected by a majority (Committee with the exception of IA)? The proposals have been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131215	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131242	Thank you. When we make legislation, it is always to make the law better, either by better arrangements, simplifications or for better legal certainty for citizens. This bill is a mix of everything. In the agreement on sickness benefit reform, which was made under a government led by the Social Democratic Party, the request was made among other things. to digitise and automate sickness and maternity benefits through the Income Register. We did this precisely in order to make it easier for municipalities and companies to manage when they have to report absenteeism and request reimbursement. At the same time, it also provides a much better opportunity to control against errors and abuses. The digitalisation in the field of sickness benefits started in January 2015, and now it is the maternity part that we are going to have with us. As I see it, there is little change in the categories of persons who are entitled to maternity benefit, but rather in the employment requirement. There are, however, very few employees who will be put differently from today, but some will be put a little lower, while others will be put a little better. Therefore, there is no economy in this apart from the approx. 2 million kr., it will cost to adapt the digital systems. In addition to this, some amendments are proposed which would also simplify the system and which I would just like to mention a few of. The draft law also proposes to make the holding of two weeks' paternity leave more flexible for employees and self-employed workers, proposing that the 10 days should not be taken for a continuous period, but no later than 14 weeks. This means that in future you can gather the days for a few weeks and skip other weeks. This could mean a more flexible option which could benefit a great many people. Today, you have to apply for a new maternity leave after a holiday, if you want to take a holiday during your maternity leave. This requires time and resources for employees and employers. It will be the case with this proposal that, in the application for maternity leave, you have to tell us when you are taking a holiday and therefore do not have to look again for the holiday. It is, in turn, a simplification which will benefit many. If employers today forget to report absenteeism due to maternity and an employee has not known about it, the employee will lose his entitlement to maternity benefit after 8 weeks. With these changes to the law, a derogation to pay out Denmark is guaranteed, so that the employee can receive his or her maternity allowance, thus increasing the legal certainty of the individual. So with this bill we ensure administrative relief for the country's companies, for employees and Payout Denmark, which administers the rules on maternity benefit. That is why the Social Democrats can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131522	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131529	Thank you to the rapporteur. But I note that the rapporteur skipped over slightly, I think, the tightening of the employment requirement which lies in this draft law. I cannot find the factual reason for it. This has nothing to do with digitalization. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is not more critical of this. I think it's a slippery slope. Indeed, previous legislation has already tightened the employment requirement for sickness benefit recipients, and I fear that such a tightening as this can provide a basis for further tightening later on in other areas. And since there is no objective justification whatsoever for this tightening, I do not understand why the rapporteur supports it. There are several other deteriorations in it. I would like to mention one which I would also like to ask the rapporteur to deal with and which he did not mention, and that is, of course, that periods of labour conflict should no longer count on the employment requirement. What is the rapporteur's view of such a deterioration?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131633	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131636	What I want to say is that I also said in my rapporteur's speech that there are some deteriorations in this and that there are some improvements. The improvements have not, of course, been mentioned by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but only pointed to the deterioration. Yeah, somebody's gonna lose on this, and somebody's gonna win. It is clear that the employment requirement will change slightly. Some of the things that can be of benefit are that, in the future, there can be a slight interruption in the labour market. The current rule does not allow that. So if you don't have a job for a few days, you can actually get these maternity benefits, and you couldn't before. So I'm actually very, very much in agreement with Finn that there's something in this that's going the wrong way, and then there's something going the right way. But all the other things being equal, I think it is actually a sensible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131731	Finn's name is Sørensen for his last name. Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131734	Thank you, and not Hyllested thank you for that. I know that one. We look at it differently. The Enhedslisten does not support legislative proposals in which there are deteriorations for employees. Social democracy sometimes does, not always, fortunately. That's not what I wanted to discuss. I just wanted to know what the objective reason for tightening up this employment requirement is. I believe that it is the LO, or the Danish A-boxes, which mention in a consultation answer that in practice it means a tightening up as much as five months because of all the complex technical rules that are around it. The improvements I did not mention, no, not in a brief comment. The rapporteur did, so I did not have to. But I did not get an answer to this question about the fact that labour disputes no longer count on the employment requirement. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131820	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131821	Well, what I think is important in this matter is the simplification of that. There is a difference between the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party, because we are the kind of people who enter into some negotiations. And it could cost something. If you take, you have to give. That is the difference between Enhedslisten and Social Democracy. That is also why we have some more influence and are involved in a little more conciliation than Enhedslisten is. Those are the choices you make. However, I do believe that this is a simplification, and it will make it much, much easier for a number of employees and a number of companies and also for those who have to manage it. That is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131859	Thank you. Sir. Henning Hyllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131903	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is not going to answer the question put by Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen. Now we have heard the same explanation twice, without the rapporteur having replied to Mr Seligman's question. Finn Sørensen's question. Could we not get a completely cash answer to what the rapporteur thinks about exactly the issue of hours away from work conflict no longer counts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131925	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221131928	I simply have to delve into it more when it comes to whether it counts or not, and that is what we have to ask questions about in committee. I have just looked at it overall and we have also talked about it both in the conciliation circle and elsewhere, and I have also asked questions to the then minister who was dealing with the area. And I am convinced that, overall, this is a very good proposal which simplifies the system, and I am also convinced that, of course, some will be worse and that some will be better, but I think everything else just that it is a proposal that is better and more simplified than what we already have, and I think I have said that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132007	Sir. Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132010	Thank you for your answer. It was a little more honest this time. The rapporteur has simply failed to see that there was perhaps this very clear deterioration in a field which I know is also of great concern to the rapporteur, namely that hours from work conflict no longer count. So thank you for that and then there are no more comments from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132032	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132049	Thank you for that, President. I would like to start by thanking Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen for the excellent review. It saves me some of the work of telling me what the law is about. This is always the case when the first one has been up and has gone a little deeper. But this bill is an improvement, and it's pretty much all the way through. There are, of course, some problems, as has also been mentioned, but it is an improvement in the digitisation and better reporting and simplification of systems and the simplification of the administrative burdens of the employer. It also means simplification for the individual who has to pay maternity benefits, that you have a system that is easier to go to, and it facilitates all the way through. That is why we in the Danish People's Party also think that this is an excellent proposal that we can support. In order to get a little ahead of the issues raised here by Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, I would say: let us then look at it in committee and get the Minister to answer the question. So, we can have different opinions about it, and in the Danish People's Party we feel that this is generally an improvement. That there may then be little in what others think is a disadvantage, we must go along with it. We must then consider whether the improvement is better than the disadvantages. And should we say 'yes' or 'no' to the whole proposal and thus say 'no' to the improvements that are? And that is where we in the Danish People's Party prefer to say yes to the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132218	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, a short remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132220	Thank you. Well, that's what I could guess along the way. But then I ask: what are we going to do with the further work if we can now prove that there are actually a handful of boring deteriorations? It is possible that they affect only a few people, we do not know anything about that; it is not even explained, but nevertheless the deteriorations for people who would like to have a connection with this system if it does not affect the rapporteur's position on the matter? I would like to ask the rapporteur to read the answers to these questions. from the LO, which says that the tightening of the employment requirement in this can lead to a total of five calendar months' work in order to obtain the right to benefit rather than the present system, where it is 13 weeks. At least it's a tightening up that's gonna do something. And then I will just hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will be involved in trying to change the bill on this point, if it turns out that the LO is right in this view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132316	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132317	It is too early to say now, because it depends a little on the answer that then comes to that question. I'm sure sir. Finn Sørensen also raises the question to the Minister and so we can look at it in committee work. However, I would like to say that there is no such thing as immediately that the Danish People's Party will demand the major changes to the proposal. There isn't. But if there is something serious that appears when we get the answer to the question in committee, and we can see that it is so serious that we have to look at it, then of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132350	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132350-2	Thank you. Well, the rapporteur can be absolutely sure that Enhedslisten is asking a number of questions so that we can bring out the deterioration that lies in the proposal. So I would just like to say that it would have been nice if the party, which clearly has some influence in this situation and one had to call me Mad, had they not been involved before the draft law had asked these questions. You could have done that just by reading the hearing answers. So I would urge the rapporteur, when we are finished in this Chamber, to study the consultation answers thoroughly, among other things. This answer from the LO, and then just think about if there may be nothing we need to get corrected in this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132429	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132430	Unlike Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti has taken a position on this and believes that there are so many clear improvements in this that we are voting in favour of the proposal. I know that the Enhedslisten is voting against. If not all these deteriorations that Enhedslisten thinks they are, then Enhedslisten is against. Even if there is only a slight deterioration left, Enhedslisten says no. Of course, in the Danish People's Party we assess whether the benefits are not so great that we can live with a single deterioration or two. That depends on what the deterioration is. That is also what I could understand from the Social Democrats, namely that they have the same attitude. But Enhedslisten hasn't. They say 'no', regardless of whether or not there are things that benefit employees. You say no because there's a slight deterioration you don't like. But the Danish People's Party supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132516	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132524	Thank you. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is in line with the common public digitalisation strategy for a digitally efficient and simplified employment effort, and the Left would like to see the administrative tasks digitalised and debureaucraticised. Furthermore, the proposal improves the possibilities of detecting errors and abuses, and then I agree with the excellent review of the draft law by the Socialist rapporteur, and on that basis the Left must recommend that we vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132604	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221132618	Thank you. Simplification is a good thing, everyone can agree on that. Digitisation can be that too. The unit list is not machine-stormer. There are some obvious opportunities for simplification and for easier administration in the public sector by using digitalisation. But when I read such a bill as this, I think it is very clear that it is the digitization that is allowed to decide, understood in that way, that if there are some corners or knots that are for the benefit of the employees, but which stand in the way of this much-discussed digitisation, then you knock off those who crack off. The deterioration in this bill may be an example of that. I have already mentioned, through my questions, the deterioration in employment requirements, which will be extended from the present 13 weeks as a condition for obtaining the benefit that can be obtained here. 13 weeks with 120 working hours are now 4 completed calendar months with 160 working hours plus employment requirements the day before or on the day of maternity leave. This isn't something I made up, but the LO has sat down and looked at it, and we have to verify if the LO is right. For according to the LO, this may mean that you have to up to five months' employment in order to qualify for these maternity benefits. I cannot find any factual justification for this in the draft law. I cannot find any justification for this at all, and I think that is a matter of concern, because that means that there are some people on the edge of the labour market who are struggling to have enough hours to obtain such a right here, who may find it harder to do so. That should be contrary to the intentions that everyone else is talking about here, namely that we must have people closer to the labour market. So that is an absolutely crucial deterioration. Then you can come and say that it only hits a few people, but you really don't know anything about it. It is estimated that there are very few, but there is no explanation at all of how many of them are affected. But even if there were only a few, why should such a deterioration be achieved? One must at least be able to measure it and explain why it is important because, as I see it, it has nothing to do with digitisation. Then, in fact, there is also a deterioration in the calculation of maternity benefit. The basis of assessment is changed from being the current wage during maternity leave to being the average wage for four months before the bar, and this may result in some receiving a worse wage during maternity leave. Why do you do that? I think that happens in the digitalization sacred name, but that digitization has become a little too sacred when things like that happen. The equation is also a problem. The same thing happens. The compensation is changed from the actual pay paid to the pre-birth wage from which the maternity allowance is calculated. Then there is the digitisation of the calculation of the employment requirement and the calculation of the maternity allowance. It is all based on information from the income register, which is what it is all based on. It's the basis for all this digitalization that it has to be able to be done through the income register. The problem is that there are many things that the income register does not catch up, and thus there are many possible sources of error. This is actually recognised in the draft law, but then it is resolved in such a way that a considerable extension of the authority of the Minister to determine the methods and rules in all situations where it does not fit in with the income register is made. That is such a dangerous path to take in terms of legal certainty. In other words, it is no longer the Folketing, but the Minister, who decides how the rules are in the individual areas that do not fit in with the digitalisation. Then I have also mentioned the question that periods of labour conflict no longer count in the employment requirement. Then it is true that there are some improvements to this proposal and they have been mentioned by previous rapporteurs. This is the question of a more flexible placement of the two weeks' paternity leave, which is certainly worth paying attention to. It is also possible to apply for exemptions from the eight-week deadlines more easily, and it must then be recognised that some improvements of this kind follow on from digitalisation. However, this cannot compensate for the deterioration, which is why it is true that the Enhedslisten is voting against such a proposal. Then you can discuss deteriorations and improvements philosophically. Yes, if it is the same people who are subject to some legislation. In other words, if it is the same people who have both some deterioration and some improvement, then we can discuss a balance of those things, but that is not the way it is in this proposal. It is totally arbitrary who can be affected by it, and it is notorious that some people will suffer some deterioration in an important area for Enhedslisten, which deals in particular with people's links with the labour market. So it is true that we cannot vote for it unless these things are lured out, but I can see that will be difficult when both the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party have already decided to vote for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133201	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133214	The proposal here is to implement the conciliation on the reform of the sickness insurance system, in which it includes, among other things: has been agreed that administration and payment should be digitised. In order to be able to deal automatically with these matters, certain legislative changes are required in relation to employment requirements and the basis for calculation, as previous rapporteurs have said. And the purpose of the change is that the same group of persons can receive the said benefits, and the changes are therefore primarily administrative in nature. The Liberal Alliance is in favour of the administrative relaxations that automation and regulatory simplifications mean and will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133251	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133305	Thank you. After all, good rapporteurs have gradually explained much of the content of this proposal. For us, there are two important things: 1. Digitisation of the requirements for employment and calculation of maternity leave, 2. a number of other simplifications designed to facilitate administration in the same field. In the alternative, we are positive that the payment of maternity benefit should be made more automatically and digitally with the introduction of a new basis of assessment and an employment requirement which can be calculated through the income register. This is an administrative relief, both for Payout Denmark and for employers. And we are positive about some of the other simplifications in the legislative proposal, such as allowing a citizen to apply for maternity benefits over holiday periods. We are also very pleased that it is possible for citizens in employment to divide 14 days' paternity and maternal leave into several periods, so that the family will have more flexibility in relation to maternity leave, and that a right of appeal will be established in the sickness benefit law, so that a person can complain to the Employment Committee of the Ankestyrelsen about certain decisions taken by Denmark on sickness benefit insurance. There is, however, a nicely large apes dabei. The Ministry states in its observations on the draft law that the adaptation of the rules on the calculation of the employment requirement and the calculation of the maternity benefit hourly rate for employees will have negligible financial consequences, where only few employees will be able to be treated differently from today. However, the Ministry does not provide an estimate of how many employees are expected to be disadvantaged as a result of the change in the employment requirement. It may well be that the Ministry of Employment says that it will have negligible financial consequences for employees, but if we take the individual employee, we fear that it may well have very significant consequences personally for the person's economy, and we must have it pierced. In the consultation responses, the Negotiating Community envisages that a number of employees on the edge of the labour market will lose the right to maternity benefit as a result of the changes. In addition, both CFU and the academics state in their consultation reply that digitalisation of the legislation should not lead to a deterioration in the legal position of citizens. And indeed, as Mr. Finn Sørensen has also noticed that the LO has also made some criticism. They write, for example.: LO believes that the tightening of the employment requirement risks hitting people on the edge of the labour market at a time in their lives where they are most vulnerable. We have received no figures on how many people are affected and how they are affected, etc. etc., and that is some of what we will be asking questions about in the subsequent process to see whether we will be able to vote for this or whether the disadvantages for people will be so great that we cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133612	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no comments. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133622	Thank you. In the Radical Left, overall, we are very positive about this bill. This provides a much easier administration both for the public authorities, but also for companies, and we are very pleased with the greater flexibility in the organisation of paternity leave and in the clarification of the right of appeal for the sickness benefit recipient. I think that the draft law has been well examined by previous rapporteurs, and so a number of very good questions have been asked as to how many exactly are covered by some of the minor changes involved. I think it is quite appropriate that we get answers to those questions in the committee process. So I am pleased if the rapporteurs, who have been up before me, put them forward. But there is overall support from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133731	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133745	SF naturally supports regulatory simplifications and digitalisation of the area. There are also several good measures, and it is also against this background that we can see that the cashiers are voicing approval for the bill. There are also things that move in the other direction. And I think it should be noted in particular that the LO writes that they are concerned about the change in the employment requirement, because the draft law increases the requirement for the number of hours from 120 hours to 160 hours in employment over the last four months prior to the period of absence. They write that, overall, this implies that the person must have been in employment for up to 5 calendar months in order to be entitled to benefit rather than only 13 weeks in accordance with the applicable rules. The tightening of the employment requirement risks hitting people on the edge of the labour market at a time in their lives where they are most vulnerable. We have also noted the hearing from the academics. They write: "Academics therefore find it extremely worrying when the legal notes state that the objective of digitization is that the same groups of persons will, as far as possible, obtain the same right to maternity benefit according to the applicable rules..... That is why the academics are proposing the introduction of a general guarantee of rights so that citizens maintain the legal position in the past in cases where digitalisation would otherwise have put them at a disadvantage. I guess it sums up very well the place where the SF places itself. It is also the same in the consultation answer that has come from the Joint Committee of Central Organisations. They state that the principle of CFU is that the digitisation of legislation must not lead to a deterioration in the legal position of citizens solely as a result of digitalisation. So we will follow closely the concerns expressed by the organisations that are actually organising those Members who will be affected by this legislation before we take a final position on the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221133949	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Conservative rapporteur is not present, we move on to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134003	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the consideration of the legislative proposal, the comments that have been made and the broad support for the proposal. As has been said, the main purpose of the draft law amending the law on maternity leave is to digitise the payment of maternity benefits. The proposal arises, as mentioned earlier, from the sickness benefit reform, where it was agreed to digitise first the payment of sickness benefit and then the payment of maternity benefit. The proposal is in line with the common public digitalisation strategy, which includes: implies that information contained in the income register should be used to a greater extent in the current administration and control. I am pleased that we are now having digitalised the payment of maternity benefit, as digitalisation will reduce the administrative burden on employers when they have to report the absence of an employee and request reimbursement. At the same time, payment is also simplified in Denmark's administration in the field. The draft law also contains proposals for regulatory simplifications which will also help to facilitate the administration of employers and pay ments in Denmark, as well as proposals which introduce more flexible maternity rules for citizens. Among other things: make paternity leave more flexible by removing the requirement for paternity leave to be held for one continuous period. Finally, the draft law contains an authorisation clause in the Law on the financing by municipalities of certain public benefits paid by municipalities, the Danish Disbursement Fund and the unemployment funds, so that the necessary technical adjustments can be made to the reimbursement rules for changing the unemployment benefit system to a monthly system. Then, of course, I am looking forward to returning to some of the more technical issues that have been raised, among others. from Finn Sørensen, during committee reading. However, I would like to say at this point that Finn Sørensen has read all the answers to the hearings, and you must admire Finn Sørensen for that. This is generally a good rule, but I also believe that Finn Sørensen has read the consultation note made in connection with the consultation answers given. And I admit that there may well be things in the consultation note which can be clarified and which can give rise to questions and further clarification, and I will, of course, endeavour to do so. Now I would just like to mention one thing that Finn Sørensen mentions in relation to the labour dispute, namely what is stated in the consultation note: As stated in the legal text, periods in which the employee has been subject to a contract of employment are disregarded. So basically it is not to put the people at a disadvantage, but it is one, if you may say so, more technical change. However, I would very much like to go into further clarification on this, because I admit that there have been some points raised in the hearings which give rise to comments. I have now taken note of this and will return to it, including the question of whether you should have employment for five months in order to meet the employment requirement. There is also a wrong view of the LO in what they state in relation to the employment requirement, and I would, of course, like to clarify this in writing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134300	Thank you, Minister. There is a question from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134303	Thank you. I will return to the more technical aspect, but I would just like to tell the Minister that, in the context of the labour dispute, I see that today there is a labour dispute with the employment requirement, but that it does not come to that with the legislative proposal we are discussing here. Then it will function as what you might call a dead period. But we're gonna find out if I misunderstood. But I would like to ask a political question: whether it is five months or what it is, there is a tightening of the employment requirement, and that is something that the Minister's answers also admit. What is the reason for this? Why is it important to tighten up the employment requirement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134346	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134348	What is apparent from the draft law is that there are changes in relation to the employment requirement. It is the case that there will be less relaxation of the employment requirement for some people, and then there will be minor adjustments, including tightening, to the employment requirement for others. When you have to make this digital solution, it's just to make sure that you do it in the most appropriate way, and then you can't create a completely millimetre-righteous system. And that is the political idea behind it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134417	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134420	Then we went back to the technique. I just don't see the logic, and even if it was there, I probably wouldn't accept it. However, I do not see that digitalisation has anything to do with extending the employment requirement from 13 weeks to 4 months. What is it about digitisation that forces the government to propose such a thing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134442	What we are discussing here today is, in general terms, a legislative proposal which in every way simplifys the rules in relation to what we have discussed, namely the area of maternity. And for the whole discussion about whether some people are being put at a disadvantage and some are being put a little better, I would say that it was a political balance that we made when we put forward this proposal. I am happy to enter into a major discussion when I reply in writing to some of these questions, and I look forward to doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134514	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134532	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134544	It has to pay to work. This slogan uses the government and the bourgeoisies all the time. And who can't agree with that? Of course, working must pay off. That is why the Social Democratic Party also changed tax legislation when we were in government so that it would be worth taking a job. And that's why, when we were in government, we also proposed a job prize that looks something like this to those who were far away from the labour market, to give these people an extra carrot. And in 2015, just before the elections, the Social Democratic Party came up with another proposal that looks something like this. However, it never made it through the legislative process when it was overtaken by a parliamentary election. The proposal we are debating today gives an extra carrot to those people who are long-term unemployed and who are far away from the labour market if they get to work. The job premium is calculated as 10%. of the income from unaided employment, up to a maximum of DKr 2,500. per month. The job premium is tax-free and does not affect other public services. A maximum of 18 months can be paid for a job premium, whereby a person can receive a total of up to 45,000 DKK. in the job prize. I am not going to mention here all the groups of people who can get a job prize, but say that in week 48 of 2016 we must have had a long-term, coherent course corresponding to 47 weeks out of 52 weeks with the reception of the dependents contained in the bill. For insured unemployed persons, however, different rules apply which may surprise us a little. Here it is 71 weeks out of the last 78 weeks, i.e. a somewhat longer period. Is this gonna work? Does that get people going to get a job prize that this proposal is about? It is very difficult to know, and that is why we welcome the fact that it is being evaluated, and we are also keen to see which groups it works best on. Is it the recipient of cash benefits who is furthest away from the labour market? Is he the one who's become independent? Or is it the insured unemployed? Who does it mostly work on? I think that's quite interesting. We think it is very good to see that a very, very liberal government also uses the carrot method and not just the whip to get people going, as we saw with the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. I think it suits the government. At least we see this bill as an improvement and an opportunity to get more people into work. For the reasons I have mentioned, we are in favour of the proposal, but nevertheless have some unresolved questions and concerns about the funding itself. The government will find the money in two places. They will find them phasing out the state urban renewal framework, and they will find them on uncontaminated funds from the nitrogen reserve. We are particularly very, very concerned about urban renewal. We are simply in doubt about what it will mean, what consequences it will have, who it will hit and where it will hit. Does this affect urban renewal where it is really needed in rural areas? These are the questions we are asking ourselves, and these are the questions that concern us in relation to funding. And what do the municipalities really think about that? Did the municipalities say it's fine and they don't need this pool, or what? These are things that worry us when we look at funding. That is why we, as Socialists, cannot say 'yes' or 'no' today, because we will wait to state it clearly after we have received answers to some of the questions that we will be asking during the committee procedure. And the questions we are going to ask are, of course, a lot about funding and what is going to help pay for this. So we are in favour of the job premium scheme itself; we ourselves have done something similar to that very much, by the way, also in a Finance Act in 2015, I think it was, with Enhedslisten. However, funding worries us, and that is what we have to ask ourselves, and that is why we cannot finally say whether we are in favour or against, or whether we will vote yellow when we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134941	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221134946	Thank you. And thank you for recognising in such a way that a job prize is also a way to go when we need more people to work. This is, in fact, a path we want to go down in the light of experience at international level and the experience gained in Denmark in the past. I should like to ask the Social Democrats what their position is if it is the funding that now lies, which is also the forthcoming funding. Will the Social Democrats vote against a future job prize?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135037	After all, I find it hard to say that the Social Democratic Party is opposed to a job prize when, in connection with the Finance Act in May 2015 and in 2012 we did it with Enhedslisten • ourselves helped to make a job prize; then it would be weird for me to stand here and be against something we have done ourselves. However, I am concerned about funding, because we all know that it has come a little late, and we all know that there is not so much about it in the legislative proposal. So I do not really know what the funding means, and that is why I cannot, of course, reply to Mr Van der Waal's question. Hans Andersen's question about whether we want one thing or the other. Well, immediately we are in favour of this, but concerned about funding, and that is why I do not know whether we will be voting yellow, green or red or what we are doing. I have to take a position on that only after the Minister has answered those questions. I also believe that Mr. Hans Andersen has quite a lot of respect for the fact that we need to know that this is also what we in the Social Democratic Party want to know about what things cost before we can say yes or no. That is why we are working constructively on this and why we are asking these questions and also waiting until we have received an answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135140	Thank you. Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135144	Thank you. So, depending on the funding, there may be three outcomes in this case in relation to the position of the Social Democratic Party, i.e. a push on the green, yellow or red button. But I just have to understand: does the Social Democracy support the job prize, or is it true that if the funding is as it stands right now, then it can actually end up with the Social Democracy saying no to a future job prize?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135220	I can say quite clearly that if we think this funding is right, really sensible, and can support it, then we are inclined to vote green, then we are inclined to vote in favour. But that is what I am in doubt about, and that is also why it may be that we end up voting yellow. I do not really see that we are voting red because we actually think it is a very good proposal. This is just about the concern about funding. So I don't think I can see that mr. Hans Andersen smiles, and I know him so well that I can see that he has got the answer he wants me to get closer or make it clearer than I have done here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135251	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135309	Thank you, President. This bill is what you can call a carrot for those who have been unemployed for a very long time, those who have been outside the labour market and it is one year for cash benefits recipients and one and a half years for benefit recipients, but some of them have typically been outside the labour market for even longer periods of time that can benefit from it here. As a starting point, we in the Danish People's Party believe that this is an excellent proposal. The idea of a job prize is that we can easily support it. There are a lot of unresolved things in it. We have a number of questions that we need answers to during the work of the committee, among others. We have questions about the fact that you have to register for week 48 in order to be entitled to it, and then it is based on the obligation of residence. Does this mean that when it is week 48, you have to have resided in Denmark during the time that has been before, or is it just that you have a residence perhaps one week or one day of week 48 and are registered with a residence obligation, and then you can get it if you earn your salary abroad, in an EU or an EEA country? There's also the thing about self-employed people documenting the demands that are. There you go in and see the first report, and then it's what you calculate, and even if there's another report, where you have a lower income, it's still the first one you calculate after. These are some of the issues that we must at least resolve before we finally agree to. We are very uncertain about the control of the self-employed who earn their income in an EU or an EEA country, but this will be clarified during the committee procedure. It is not something that immediately scares us away, but it may be that there is an answer which means that we do not really like that answer. This also applies to flex workers. If they come out, they get a prize too. You get 10%, max. 2,500 kroner. In other words, all those who have small jobs that receive income will of course also receive 10% of their income per month. of the income they have and max. 2,500 kroner. a month. That's really good, too. But there is another issue that we need to clarify here with the target groups, and that is, of course, that the law will come into force on 1 April. Does this mean that you cannot qualify for the job premium if you have a job before 1 April, that is to say you have to wait until 1 April? There are some who get jobs here in February and March, but have complied with the rules in week 48. Do they get a job prize, or do you cut it on April 1st? I have not just been able to read myself to it, but it may be that the Minister can explain it, because it is also of little importance. After all, week 48 was chosen to ensure that no thought was given to using the system and waiting for work until a certain date. That's how I got it. However, I would just like to make sure that it is as I understand it, namely that even if you have got a job here in March, you are still covered by the rule if you have met the conditions of week 48 and week 47 for another group. That is at least one of the points that we would like to make quite clear. There are also those who say: Have we not tightened up enough? Do you need a carrot? We saw in what came from the think tank KORA that it is not meant to make a carrot, because previous job prizes have shown no effect. Now I'm one of those who doesn't listen very much to these institutes, KORA and CEPOS, or whatever they're called. These are not the ones I am listening to most, and in this respect it is a good thing that we have an evaluation so that we can see if it has that effect. It is laughing down there, and it is because those who sit in those institutes have never been out on the labour market. They've just formed the impressions of studying, but peace be with it. They do their job, and I respect that too. It has nothing to do with it. But, as a whole, we think this is an excellent legislative proposal, and I also think that it is sensible, as Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen says to ask about this funding with urban renewal. It is another ministry, so I think it is quite sensible to ask about it. After all, it is not financing that the Danish People's Party has found. It's someone the government has found, so it's fine to clarify how it works. Now my time has expired, although I could have spent 5 more minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135824	I don't think any of us have had any doubts about that. It's gonna be okay. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135831	It's just before you want to have a question debate about all these institutes, because it could be a rather exciting debate. But that's not what I want to ask. I know that the Danish People's Party has approved all this funding at the expense of urban renewal, and that is why I have to ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted, where the lack of money for urban renewal hits. Who's gonna get hurt? Are rural areas affected? Who's hitting it? That is the kind of thing I care about, and that is the kind of thing I would like to have some clarity about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135901	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135902	I think this is a very sensible question. This funding is something the government has put forward. We have said no to an earlier proposal on financing, among other things. this 2-percent saving on the a-boxes. It rejected the Danish People's Party. Then the government has presented this funding. We've said OK. I believe that this is the government's proposal, but I think it makes sense to deepen it. Now it is another ministry and some other boxes that come under it, so it is not even certain that the Minister for Employment can respond to it. I think this is a sensible question, but I must point out that the Minister must make sure that he gets the answer to Mr Beazley's question. Leif Lahn Jensen. I cannot give an immediate answer to the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135946	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221135948	That's fair enough. At any rate, I am really, really glad that you have dropped the idea of 2 percent savings on the A-boxes, because for me that was a completely crazy saving. So I'm really glad about that. However, it is clear that I recognise, of course, that there are some things we need to know, and I also recognise the answer I get, and then we will have to wait and take the debate at second or third reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140009	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140010	I think it makes sense to get the answers in. The Danish People's Party has 16, 17, 18 questions to which we need answers. So it's not like we're just saying yes to everything. We have a number of outstanding questions to which we need answers and to which I expect to shed a little more light on this proposal, but the job premium as a whole we think is a good thing. If the effect is there, then the evaluation must show.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140038	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140040	Thank you, as well as thank you, to the rapporteur for his pleasant speech. Then time runs out when you're having a good time, I could hear it. I can't really figure out what the Danish People's Party thinks about this. So, does the Danish People's Party support this bill that the government has put forward, or is it not? And if you do not: what conditions must be fulfilled for you to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140104	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140105	We support this proposal. I actually thought I said the same thing. We accept the government's presentation of the funding. There are then some ambiguities and some points on which we are very uncertain, among others. This business of self-employed and earning abroad. And if we are not satisfied with the answers we get there, it might well be that these were the points we would try to see if we could withdraw from the legislative proposal. But let us now see how the Minister responds to that. I can't really assess what this self-employed thing is like: How long are they going to live in Denmark? Where do they set up their business? Is it down in Romania where they will then explain what they have served down there and how and how to control it? It is a little unresolved, and of course we need to ask that question. However, in general terms, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140151	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140155	But there isn't a button down here called "in large numbers" and "to a lesser extent," is there? Bent Bøgsted No, but there is one named green. Well, there's a yes and a no, and then there's the yellow one. These are the three options we have. And when you're at a first reading, it's fair enough to say: we like the intention in this, but there are some things we want changed so that we can support it. Is that what the Danish People's Party says? Or does the Danish People's Party say: yes, there are some things we cannot really find out, but we do support it anyway? It is very nice for the rest of us to know in the course of the debate, because it has something to do with what pressure we other people, who are basically in the minority, can put on the government to change things and things, among other things. the question of financing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140236	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140237	In other words, it is not the Danish People's Party that has asked questions about funding. We accept that the government has submitted that funding. It is the government's proposal; it is not the proposal of the Danish People's Party. If they think it can be defended, the government must explain it. With regard to the other issues here, on which I said we had some questions and which are unresolved: if there is one of the minor points on which we think it is quite wrong, then of course we will have a talk with the Minister about whether that can be changed. But that depends on the answers we get from the Minister. We don't know yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140308	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140323	Thank you. It is crucial for the government that it pays off to work. We have, among other things. secured by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Now we want to make it even more attractive for the long-term unemployed to be part of the working community. With the job premium, we reward the long-term unemployed who enter work with a tax-free money gain. The aim of introducing the job premium is to give an extra hand to the long-term unemployed, who may need an extra boost to get into employment. Over a period of 11⁄2 years, the long-term unemployed who enter work can gain an extra 10 per cent. of labour income, up to a maximum of DKr 2,500. a month. The tax-free reward gives the longterm unemployed a strong incentive to get to work. This helps to ensure that work always pays off and helps to ensure that even more people become part of the working community. Since we implemented the 225-hour rule, more than 1,100 people have taken small jobs next to the cash benefits. That's a good thing. This shows that economic incentives work. The interaction between the 225-hour rule and the temporary job premium scheme must also speed up the longterm unemployed in employment as much as possible. A person who in week 48 in 2016 has been on public support for 47 out of the last 52 weeks can look forward to a cash bonus of up to 45,000 tax-free kroner. So it is a lot of money, and it can certainly make a difference in the individual family. The pilot scheme is aimed at a target group of approx. 164.000 longterm unemployed who have had one year of continuous training in the benefit system. As I have said, we want to increase the supply of labour, ensure that more people get to work. The Left welcomes this and we also look forward to evaluating this proposal once the period has been completed in March 2019. As I said, we are thereby giving a loving boost in the field of employment to those people who have gone far too long and been unemployed. It's been seen before around the world that job prizes make a difference. Research has actually pointed out that monetary rewards have positive effects on employment. It is also essential that the job premium is seen in the context of first job reform I and later job reform II, which is the follow-up to ensure that it is more profitable to work, and to ensure that we reduce the tax also for those with the lowest wage incomes. Overall, these measures contribute to greater pay for work and will lead to more people becoming part of the working community. Against this background, the Left supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140653	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140656	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Now I heard that the rapporteur was a little after the Socialist rapporteur, because the Socialist rapporteur had some, I think, reasonable concerns about funding. And so it was almost in the rapporteur's question that it was, like, a little awkward, because they now supported the job prize, or did they not? So I would also like to hear from the rapporteur, for the sake of myself, who will shortly have to come up and explain that I also have problems with funding: is there anything unpleasant about the fact that people are questioning or may end up not voting in favour of a legislative proposal because there is a wrong funding in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140734	No, certainly not. It is then just a question of the priorities of the individual party. Then the individual party will have to make up for itself: how important is a job premium for the longterm unemployed? We in the Left believe this is important. That is why we have also financed the proposal before us today. That is why we are also calling on the parties in this Chamber to support it. Then I can understand that there are concerns on the part of the Socialists, and that is also obvious in the Enhedslisten. But you have to make up for yourself what's most important. After all, it's all about priorities. And I would be a little surprised if the Enhedslisten also might end up voting red for an action to help more people into work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140819	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140821	I fully agree that this is all about political priorities. However, if priority is to be given in all cases, as the rapporteur does there, why did the Left vote against the proposal for a job premium implemented by the S-R-SF government with the support of the Enhedslisten in spring 2012? It was the rapporteur himself who was the rapporteur at that time, and one of the reasons was that one did not like it because the funding had to be found by the government and the Enhedslisten. And then you were afraid that it was the wrong funding that came out of it. So isn't there anything that's kind of gone wrong with the history there? Now it is suddenly a problem if you use the funding as a justification. However, since the rapporteur himself used it as an argument to vote against the previous proposal on the job premium, which he thought was a good one, the exact question of using the funding was obviously not a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140917	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221140919	There is surely the difference, as far as I remember, that it was, after all, a finance agreement that Enhedslisten had made with the then government, and in it the funding of that action was included. And then the Left would not have been part of the negotiations and would not have agreed to the funding either. A proposal for funding is being put forward here, and then the parties can clearly see whether they think that funds from urban renewal can help finance a job premium. And I think the last one. So that is a priority, and the parties have to deal with that. I hope that there will be a great deal of support and support for the fact that a job prize will also become a reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141004	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141006	That, however, was an excellent question by Mr. Finn Sørensen. So I have to ask: does the rapporteur agree that social democracy has not been part of finding this money on urban renewal? And does this not mean that if the Social Democrats were not part of the compromise in finding that funding, then we are exactly the same place as the Left was when they were not part of that funding in relation to a financial law? So it would be quite strange if we were to see the Left start pointing the finger at Social Democracy if we were not in favour of this funding, because the Left stood in the same place x number of years ago. Isn't that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141049	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141051	Well, it is true that I do not expect the Social Democratic Party to have been involved in pointing out the funding provided by the bill. That is absolutely correct. I'll ask you a question. When it is a job prize of the order of magnitude we are facing here to implement to help unemployed people in jobs, then the Social Democrats have to consider whether urban renewal and investment in urban renewal are more important than being able to help people who have been unemployed for a long time into the labour market. It's just a matter of priorities. It was also in 2014 and 2012 when we discussed other forms of job prize. So I'm just asking here in 2017: Will Social Democracy help invest in the unemployed when there's this funding?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141146	Then I just randomly ask back and say that this wasn't the priority that the Left wanted in 2012 or 2013 where it was in connection with the Finance Act. There the Left did not want the job prize, and that is why it was given a different priority and said no to it. So that's what I understand today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141204	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141205	At that time, the Enhedslisten had, as I remember, concluded a financial agreement with the then government, and a large number of fundings were included in the solitary that the Left certainly could not accept: tax increases, tax increases and so on. That is why we said no. There are quite open two proposals for funding here, and I just need to be clear whether the Social Democracy prefers urban renewal or prefers to help more unemployed people get started. And I prefer the last one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141243	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141259	Thank you. One cannot vote against the fact that some people who for long periods have not had much to live for get some more money between their hands, especially when the government and the Danish People's Party have just made thousands of people in this group poorer with the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. A little more money between their hands is what these people can get if they are lucky enough to get a job during the 2-year trial period where this job prize applies. But that is also the only reason to be positive about this bill, which we are on the basis of. We do not believe that it has any measurable employment effect. Apparently, the government doesn't believe that either, because then it would probably have come up with an estimate of how many people are expected to get into work as a result of this. Or it is because the government recognizes that it will be impossible to measure the job effect for the simple reason that it is not possible to know whether the people who enter work and who receive the job premium had entered work in any case. The problem is not that the unemployed lack financial incentives to take a job, and that is the whole premise and argument behind this. Because getting a 37-hour job at HK's minimum wage always pays for a help recipient. There is even a huge financial gain of thousands of dollars a month for both single and parent families. It is true that for a few benefit recipients there can be a very small and, in some cases, no economic benefit at all from getting into work for the simple reason that in many occupations the minimum wage is too low and is too close to the benefit rate. But the interesting thing is that most people in this group work anyway because of the other benefits that are about to have a job. No, the problem is that jobs are missing, as can be seen from the sad fact that almost 200,000 people are looking for jobs in vain. That is the real unemployment rate in Denmark. The problem is that since the crisis went through, we have had changing governments that have agreed to keep their feet firmly on the brakes and even increased unemployment by eliminating 30,000 public sector jobs • mainly in the welfare sector • instead of investing in solving all the tasks that need to be solved: more general housing, more public transport, more employees in the welfare sector, more renewable energy, maintenance of public facilities, especially in the municipalities. Unfortunately, there has also been no investment in the necessary skills, training and hand-held help for the many thousands in which the labour market is not interested, because they do not have the necessary qualifications or cannot work here 100 or 120 per cent. Instead, they have suffered a deterioration in their conditions through a deterioration in benefits, early retirement, flexible jobs, rehabilitation and cash benefits. As far as the legislative proposal itself is concerned, it has given rise to a great deal of criticism and many questions, as can be seen from the consultation answers. I would just like to mention some of the most important criticisms and questions raised: why are the benefit recipients discriminated against? it becomes more difficult for them to obtain the job premium than for beneficiaries of other transfer income; why are people who have reached retirement age discriminated against but who otherwise meet the requirements to receive the job premium; there will be many more complaints in the Ankestyrelsen, which will require more employees; why do you spend 800 million? kr. In the case of a scheme which is not known, even before previous attempts in this area have been fully evaluated; the question of whether the money was perhaps better spent on upgrading is raised; the administration of the scheme is extremely extensive and complicated because it is placed in Payout Denmark; it lags with legal certainty; there is a danger that people are cheated of the premium without discovering it; the exchange of personal data without informing citizens; lack of consultation of parties and lack of redress. These are some of the criticisms raised in the hearings. In addition, I myself have a few further questions: why is there no job prize for beneficiaries of integration benefit? Is it because the government doesn't think they're real Danes? Sorry, you almost have to ask about that. Or is it because you don't think they need an economic incentive? What about people employed in senior jobs? Why can't they get a job prize? After all, they are employed in a completely ordinary job on contractual terms. Is this just part of the government's general efforts to put the senior job scheme on ice? All that and more, of course, it is necessary to ask and answer before we finally take a position on the draft law. The same applies to funding, where, after the legislative proposal had been tabled, the government realised that it had just been forgotten that it should also be financed. Here I just have to say and say clearly and we cannot accept the proposed funding, which means that there will be less money for urban renewal and the fight against CO2 that will have to be changed if we are to vote in favour of the legislative proposal. Our alternative proposal for funding will be to obtain the money by postponing the relief of corporate tax by a corresponding amount in the two years of the trial period.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141804	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141814	Thank you. This proposal, as you know, implements a temporary scheme of targeted job premiums for the long-term unemployed with the aim of bringing more people into the labour market. The prize is 10 per cent. of one's income from unaided employment, a maximum of DKr 2,500. a month, for up to 18 months, which means that if you get to work it can give you a long-term unemployed DKK 45,000. In the Liberal Alliance, we believe that one of the most important political tasks is to ensure that as many people as possible participate in the working community in Denmark. We think it is the best thing for the individual and we think it is the best thing for society. So there are indicators that this could be a good handle. In 2015, KORA conducted a literature study on the effects of various employment initiatives. With regard to job premia for the longterm unemployed, the conclusions were that there is strong evidence that schemes with cash bonuses or premium payments over a short or medium period have significant positive effects on employment. That is why, of course, the hope is that the barriers between the long-term unemployed and the labour market will be broken down, so many of them can be stuck even when the job premium expires. With regard to funding, which has been mentioned a little, I think it is interesting that we are talking about urban renewal and that we are very concerned about cutting it. In fact, we in the Liberal Alliance think that this is a very good place to find the money. That is why the Liberal Alliance fully supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221141953	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221142004	In the alternative, we are pleased that the government is replacing the carrot with the carrot in trying to increase employment. The government will give the longterm unemployed a premium for finding work, while so far they have been chased around for work and made them poorer. In fact, our enthusiasm stops too, because we believe that this proposal to grant a job premium to the long-term unemployed is administratively cumbersome, expensive and, above all, without any particularly good evidence of any possible effect. It seems a little haughty to pull a small billion dollars out of the wallet for a job prize that you don't know about has any effect. For 800 million. kr. could of course roll back the entire ceiling on cash benefits and even cover the financing needs of the benefit agreement, which has had to be taken from the educational opportunities and future of Danish students. And the question is, does it work? When the idea for this job prize was presented as part of the previous government plan, I think it was part of the 2025 plan, I heard about it on the car radio on a trip to Odense. I heard in the news about the job prize, and then I heard an interview with a long-term unemployed person who was asked what she thought about the job prize. She said, I don't care about a job prize, I care about getting a job. I have been looking for work for a long time, and I will continue to do so regardless of whether there is a job prize. Now a single interview is not something to base your experience on, but I actually think that this woman's words are very telling on behalf of many unemployed people. People want to work and they are already trying to find a job, and there we have doubts as to whether a job premium creates additional, decisive motivation to get into employment. People not only take work for money, they also do it to have something to stand up for, to get colleagues, to contribute to the community, to develop professionally and so on. The motivational factors are already there. So I am not sure that money in itself is as motivating a factor in society as it is in the heads of government members. And based on previous experiments with a job premium scheme in Denmark, the Ministry of Employment's officials conclude that the experience with two previous Danish experiments with the job premium scheme is uncertain and that there is insufficient evidence of the long-term effects in this area. So you throw a small billion kroner for a scheme that has an uncertain effect, while at the same time you do not want to spend a few hundred million kroner on adjusting the flows of resources so that sick Danes are not parked in endless rows of jobs indefinitely. Rehabilitation has been threatened, although it is a tremendous help in getting people back into the labour market. It has removed the possibility that people on sickness benefits may earn holidays, so that low-income families cannot go on holiday if their father or mother has been ill. And you've saved 100 million. kr. mentor support to facilitate the access of the unemployed to the labour market. And then suddenly you're gonna make a $1 billion donation for a bet that you're not sure is gonna work. Couldn't you try an experimental system? And when I talk about experimental schemes, I'm not talking about a scheme in the 800-million-dollar class. You couldn't try with one to 50 million. kr. Or with a little bit of a try? And if they work, I am sure there will be support for extending the scheme. But as things stand now, the alternative would rather spend 800 million. kr. to help the almost 60 000 unemployed persons who are ready for work to get as close to the labour market as they can get, or to invest in the area of employment, such as: In Hjørring, where an individual effort is being made to get the vulnerable unemployed into work, a large investment of over 100 million is being made. kr., which seems to pay off. In general, we'd rather invest widely in this target group than give a single prize for the jobs that people might have found anyway. We also wonder why the government is not awaiting the very evaluation by KORA, which is looking at how the previous experiments on the job premium have progressed. It certainly had not been included in the text I have read, which is a few days old. It may be that there's been information that I don't know about. In conclusion, I come from the private sector and have a company myself, and here one could never invest a small billion kroner until one had read the report that is on the way, on how it had gone in relation to similar investments in the past. So my last question must be: why is the government not waiting for that report, or has it been given something that I do not know about? I guess it's not so hard to guess that the alternative is voting no to this. We, the long-term unemployed, the very best employment they can get, so the reason why we are voting no is of course not that we are not under them, but that we are in doubt as to whether this at all works. We believe that there are other efforts that would be much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221142435	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221142448	Thank you. In the Radical Left, we actually have a rather undogmatic relationship with helping more people into work. If in any way we can get a longer-term unemployed person more in employment, that is a huge gain, first and foremost for the individual, but also, of course, for society. That is also why we in the previous government proposed this too. So we are in fact very positive about the proposal for a temporary job premium itself. Like the previous rapporteurs, we would also like to see some more evidence that we are basing the proposals on knowledge, but we are therefore also undogmatically inclined. On the other hand, we have the same reservations as the Socialist rapporteur in relation to funding, and as the Enhedslisten rapporteur has in relation to the fact that a person on integration benefit should not have the same access to a job premium if he comes to work as everyone else on transfer income, here the long-term unemployed. We would say that is at least as deserved for them as for everyone else. However, the funding, especially in relation to the part of the urban renewal pool that it is planned to finance here, has come somewhat late. We have therefore not had much time to study and therefore need to look at and get more answers before we can decide whether the Radical Left is in favour of this proposal, but the substance and the question of trying a job premium for the long-term unemployed are, in fact, positive ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221142659	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative rapporteur is not here, and then it is the Minister for Employment. Here you go. I'm sorry. Sir. Karsten Hønge is certainly present. It's the Socialist People's Party now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221142716	We just haven't gotten that small yet. It's hard to vote against a proposal like this. It is so rare that the government will provide some extra money for the unemployed, so in this sense it is nice that the government here, for once, will treat the long-term unemployed just a little better. But it seems a bit premature to suggest spending 800 million. kr. to initiatives of which the government is not even able to calculate the effect. That is precisely the area in which we shall be asking questions later on. There are two prerequisites that need to be there to get people into work, and one is that there are actually jobs, and the other is that the unemployed have the qualifications to enter those jobs. So I wonder if the many nice money could be used better and more efficiently for example. in-service training or for social action? We also find the discrimination that has been put down between the insured and the uninsured unemployed worrying, and we could also be quite concerned about the apparatus of people who have to deal with and administer these regulations that will be built up. The SF cannot support the financing model put forward, including: When the money goes from urban renewal and in this way takes employment away, hopefully to be able to get others to work from it. It's kind of like to the dresser and back again. The final position of SF will depend on several different factors, including the financing model.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221142908	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221142919	Thank you for that and also thank you for the consideration of the legislative proposal that we have had today. There have actually been a great many good comments and also, it seems, relatively broad support for the important legislative proposal presented by the government. After all, the job premium helps to strengthen the longterm unemployed's incentive to take up a job rather than to be on public support. The job premium supports that it is worthwhile to work, which is of course an important prerequisite for ensuring social cohesion and support for our welfare societies. Being part of the labour market is a very important thing, and there is no doubt whatsoever that there is room for even more people who can be part of our labour market. The government has already, as we have discussed many times in this Chamber and also for that matter in a couple of consultations, introduced a ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule. Now we are following up and introducing a temporary job premium scheme targeted at the many long-term unemployed. You can get an extra bonus of up to 45,000 DKK. over 18 months to get to work. It is, as you can see in the bill, small 164,000 people who are part of the target group for the job prize. The job premium scheme is an extra carrot for the unemployed who are far away from the labour market who get into jobs. Too many people today are still away in a situation where they are on passive transfer. We owe it to us to do something about this, and we also owe it to us to make it more attractive to be part of the labour market. That is why, with the job prize, we are also helping those people so that it becomes even more economically attractive. When we have chosen to introduce a job premium right now, it must also be seen in the light of the progress of the Danish labour market. Since the low point in 2013 and until November 2016, the number of employees in the private sector has increased by approx. 135,000 people. These are some very good figures, and it is also a clear objective of the government that we are taking advantage of good economic trends and increasing employment to bring even more unemployed people into the labour market. When we get more in employment, we not only help the individual, but we also help to prioritise the money in a different way, so that more people contribute to our welfare society. For that matter, I have also very much agreed with the remarks made by the radical rapporteur, namely that this is also about making a difference for the individual. This isn't necessarily about whether it's a good economic business for society. It is generally so when you get people into jobs, but to ensure that people who are far away from the labour market and may have been so for a long time now can become part of the Danish labour market is very good social policy. Because the fact that you have a job, the fact that you are needed, also means something to your personal self-esteem. Then questions have also been raised here today about the evidence and impact of job premium schemes. It is, of course, the always present rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, Mr. Finn Sørensen, who has rightly pointed this out and asked whether there is evidence of this. There are other rapporteurs who do. It is, of course, the case that in the past there have also been schemes that have been launched. Among other things: it was the case that there was a single parent scheme for the period from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2012 and a long-term unemployment benefit scheme for the period from 1 June 2012 to 31 May 2014. And as the bill also shows, experience with the experiments with job prizes in Denmark is uncertain. For the same reason, employment effects are also not included in the economic estimate. In addition, there is also a big difference between the job prize we present and discuss here today and the others. KORA is currently evaluating the schemes and KORA has announced that it expects to complete the overall evaluation on 17 March 2017. However, I will also ensure that a summary is sent to the Employment Committee during the committee procedure, with the preliminary conclusions of the KORA analysis on the previous arrangements, so that it can be included in the committee procedure. It is, of course, most serious, and that is also the way it has to be, in order for a political debate to be held. But I do not want to hide the fact that for the government this is a clear political signal that we are going to make a special effort for those people who are far away from the labour market. There is a clear blue thread in government policy: that it must pay off to work. And the job prize can help support it. With this I look forward to a good committee reading and have also taken note of the many questions that have been put here at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143414	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143416	Thank you, and thank you for your ministerial speech. I'm just trying to understand the government's thinking about this bill. For I would like to rewind to 2012, to 27 April, to be exact when we had the first reading of the draft law put forward by the R-S-SF government on a job prize. At that time, the Left had two arguments to vote against the proposal. Because it was actually voted against along with the rest of the blue parties, and there were therefore two arguments. I have mentioned one of them, and it was a question of not being happy with the funding. The second argument was that it was too expensive. The overall cost of the scheme dealt with at the time was 95 million. kr. Now the government is making a proposal that costs ten times the cost. So I just ask: what are some experiences, thoughts, reflections that have been made since you turn them up on that scale? What kind of expectations do you have when you have to admit that you don't know it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143524	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143526	After all, this is not the first time that the former Left Government or the present government, with the participation of the Left, has put forward a proposal. We did so earlier than the first job scheme, and we thought that was a really, really good idea. We think it is good to encourage those who are further away from the labour market to enter the labour market. It is clear, then, that there must be a link between the effort being made and the funding that exists, and that is why we have voted, as we have, historically. After all, we believe that the way in which job schemes are financed should make sense, and that is what we have presented today with a clear answer to. We believe that we will both strengthen our efforts with the model we have presented, and we also believe that it makes sense that we have financed it in the way I have explained. Then I have noted that there are some who would like more detailed answers to the two financing elements mentioned in the letter that I sent to the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143628	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143630	I believe that almost all parties in the Folketing agree that there must be a link between the initiatives being proposed and the funding being proposed and funding being a political issue. That is where we often disagree, but we do agree that things must be financed. So that's not what I asked. So that was fair enough, I think that the Left used that argument at the time. It was also fair enough that the Left at that time thought that the scheme that we made together with the R-S-SF government was far too expensive. It cost 95 million. kr. Now we are proposing something that costs ten times as much, without any evidence being provided, and without any expectation of increasing employment. My question is: what has happened in the minds of the Left in connection with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143716	That is the beauty of politics: we are deeply divided and it is wonderful. The Enhedslisten talks a lot about how much you want to do for those who are outside the labour market, and that only turns into talk. Here we have presented a very concrete model in order to make it attractive to move from passive transfer into the labour market. In that we are so different, and it is good that it is clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143738	Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143740	Thank you. Of course, as I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we have a number of questions which we will then be making sure to pass on to the Minister. I do not think the Minister can answer them here. However, I would like the Minister to address one issue here, namely the entry into force on 1 April. After all, you have to comply with the rules to be considered in week 48 of 2016. If you've got a job here in February or March... it could be a few hours a week... you can't be considered for this job prize, if I've understood it correctly. But if you get an appointment that starts on April 1st or later, you can get a job prize. How does the Minister feel about this? For those who may be taking a job here in February or March, may feel cheated, and then maybe they can quit the job to get a new job on 1 April. How does it play together? Can the Minister answer this now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143848	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143850	I can do that, and I would like to expand on that too, and it is also in the draft law. If, for example, we do not know what to do. look at page 11 of the bill, we can see that it says that the job premium scheme must include people who in week 48 in 2016 have had at least 1 year of continuous training or cash benefits, sickness benefit, unemployment benefit, rehabilitation benefit or resource development. In addition, it is proposed that the scheme should include persons who, in week 48 of 2016, have had at least one and a half years of continuous unemployment benefit. So those who may be in the happy situation of getting into a job will then be able to use this model that has been laid out. But what I understand, sir. Bent Bøgsted asks about the connection from week 48 until April 1. And I would like to clarify this in writing so that it is quite clear. But there is no one in the period that falls into a black hole, if that is what Bent Bøgsted's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143941	Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221143943	The thing about week 48 was to avoid speculation. That's why it was made like that, I understand. I've also read what's in the bill. Of course I have. It is just that some people could get into trouble, so they could not get the prize anyway, because they had started up in a job here in March, for example. rather than waiting until 1 April. For it is quite clear that those starting on 1 April are at least included. But let us clarify this in a written reply; I will pass the question on to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144010	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144011	I will look forward to answering that in a very clear form, so that it will be exactly what the rules are like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144019	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144021	Thank you. There was some of what the Minister said I was very much in agreement with, namely that it is about doing something for the individual; it is about the individual becoming a part of the labour market. I think that is correct. Then I can just see that an integration benefit recipient isn't part of this. Does this mean that the government does not want integration benefits to be part of the labour market? That was the first question. The next question concerns the fact that integration benefit recipients are covered by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, but as far as I can understand they are not covered by this part. Why do you think you can get these people started by cutting their performance, but not in the other way you think others can? What is the Minister's position on this question? I'm a little puzzled about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144108	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144110	My position is that which is very clear, namely that beneficiaries of integration benefits already today, through the low level of service, have a strong incentive to enter employment and thus become part of the Danish labour market. So all that leaps from passive support to job entry, there is already a strong incentive to do today because of the structure of benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144130	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144131	In other words, what I hear the Minister say is that the job premium works on cash benefit recipients and other people who are far from the labour market, but it does not work on integration benefit recipients. That is what I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144141	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144143	It's, I think, because there's something wrong with sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's ears, or at least the way he hears it, come out of my mouth. I am saying that today there is already a very great incentive to move from integration benefit to job. And it has to be said that there is, after all, a less economic incentive to leave cash and enter the labour market if you get a low-wage job. That is precisely why we are setting up a job premium scheme, for which I also note that the Social Democratic Party is signing up. However, they would like to see the funding, if you say so, and that is quite fair. However, we must remember to sign off on the fact that the Social Democratic Party here actually seems to want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144215	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144217	Thank you. I just want to ask the Minister directly how the Minister feels about spending so much money • 800 million. kr.; it is, after all, a small billion dollars on something that we know so little about whether or not it works. Could you not have imagined a slightly smaller experimental model? Why pull so much money out of, among others. the urban renewal framework so quickly instead of starting with an amount that was somewhat smaller, so that only an amount that was somewhat smaller should be financed? And if this worked, it'd get the wind right away. Why don't you start a little more quietly instead of spending these huge sums on something that we don't know about pigeons?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144256	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144258	Because, of course, we have a clear priority objective that it should pay more to move from being a cash aid recipient to entering the labour market. Then we will give a boost, really a boost, so that those who enter the labour market get more to themselves. You can disagree with that politically. But I certainly believe that it is a very clear political signal to send out that this is the way we want to help some of those who are far away from the labour market today so that they can become part of the working community. I think that is basically very sympathetic because, as I have mentioned earlier today, it is both good for the individual who becomes part of the working community, but in addition, it is also very, very healthy socio-economic that as many people as possible become active in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144344	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144346	Well, I don't really know if this is a political debate we have here. For what I am actually asking is the effect of burning a small billion of what is it like to have such uncertain indicators that it is of any use at all? For now the Minister says it is important for the individual and, indeed, it is extremely important for the individual long-term unemployed, but we are certainly not burning 800 million. kr. of the individual. So how does the Minister feel about spending so much money on something that we have so much doubt about at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144417	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144418	But there I think it is important to say that the study that KORA will then provide is not going to give the final answer, because the two job premium schemes that have been in the past are not comparable to the one we have today. This one is much more comprehensive, it's much more economically attractive than the previous ones. So you can't just conclude that when we see what KORA might achieve, it's a recommendation on what to do. Because there's a very big difference in the way the models are made. Having said that, however, I believe that this is essentially not a question of technology but a question of politics. Will we do something for those who are far away from the labour market and give them an economic incentive? The government will, and of course you can be against that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144458	Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144500	Thank you. I'm just getting a little confused. Can the Minister not confirm that the money allocated here will only be spent if the longterm unemployed get to work? So the effect is going to be reflected in how much we're going to spend in crowns and ears on this area. So the more money we spend, the more long-term unemployed have entered employment. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144525	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144526	Yeah, that's very correct. You can't spend money if no one accepts the model. That is why it is not a question of burning money. We will see that some people are taking advantage of this opportunity, and that will only be good, and that is why it is also a social policy objective in the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144542	Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144544	Thank you for that answer. One could just, now that the Alternative's rapporteur is talking about the fact that we could be seen burning 800 million. kr. of no effect, get nervous that it could be the case. But that is not the case, because if we spend 800 million. kr., it is because we have got a lot of longterm unemployed back into work. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144605	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144607	Thanks are due to the Liberal Alliance for the opportunity to say precisely that no 800 million will be burned. kr. off. They are being used for something that is very sensible, namely that people come in and become part of the labour market, and otherwise they will not be used.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144621	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144636	The debate is open. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144701	Thank you. The Danish People's Party, with B 54, has put forward a proposal requiring the government, before the end of this parliamentary year, to table a bill banning praying rooms in all public educational institutions. Let me start by saying that the government cannot support the proposal. The authors of the motion for a resolution justify the fact that public educational institutions should not support Islamic social control and thus further Islamisation of Danish society. Let me make it quite clear that the government attaches great importance to the fact that Danish education is based on fundamental principles of freedom, equality and democracy. Public educational institutions have an important task in preparing students and students to live in a democracy of freedom and democracy. The role of educational institutions is to train students and students and create a Danish culture of education, where the institutions are clear about Danish values, among others. by upholding standards such as democracy, freedom of thought and freedom of religion. Freedom of religion does not mean that the individual citizen has the right to practise the religion in question actively and in public at all times in all places and in all contexts. However, the Government considers that it is the individual educational institution which is most familiar with local conditions and thus has the best conditions to weigh different considerations on the ground. The situation is not the same in all educational institutions. There may be, for example: There are major differences in the composition of pupils from institution to institution. It is therefore also the individual institution which is best at deciding how the premises of the institution are to be used, and whether, for example, there is a need to ensure that the institution's premises are used. must be made available to the students and students. The decisions taken by the institution and the actor must, of course, remain within the legal framework and the purpose of the training. We do not believe that the key rules on this issue are the solution to the cultural differences and clashes that exist in this area. The Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and Research will send a shepherd letter to the educational institutions, which will draw attention to the considerations which the institutions should be making about making prayer room available to pupils regardless of religious affiliation. The government is therefore concerned that the educational institutions are dealing with the question of prayer rooms where it is relevant, but it is the government's view, as mentioned, that the decision is best taken by the management of each institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144937	I would like to thank the Minister for the time being, but there are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221144944	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I am, of course, pleased that a shepherd's letter will be sent out. I think that makes sense. But, of course, I am also unhappy that that is all. I would like something more to be done. I think it is a good thing that the Minister is in favour of freedom, equality and democracy in educational institutions, but there is one important thing here that we must remember, and that is that we have freedom of religion, but not religion. If you put it out to the individual rector, the individual head of the school, to decide how they should act on these religious issues, you might actually risk putting this provision that we have freedom of religion, but not religion, out of effect, and thus starting to treat Islam as an equal religion to Christianity, thus allowing the Islamisation that is going on in Danish society to continue and miss the chance to defend the Muslims who actually want to break out of the social control under which they live.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145048	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145051	I think we agree with the analysis so far that there are major and real problems with religious control, both in educational establishments and elsewhere in society, and that political Islam can press freedom of spirit. Gymnasiums or other upper secondary educations must, of course, be strongholds for freedom of spirit and critical thinking. I am concerned that those who face the challenges are not alone, but that we have an open dialogue and debate about what they need, what they are facing, what they are facing, and that we are not just ashamed of those who draw attention to the problems, but are trying to solve them with them. The shepherd's letter is an example of this, but I do not imagine that we will get to grips with the problems completely with the shepherd's letter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145153	Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145155	No, I do not think you do either, because it is to overestimate the strength of the individual heads of schools or institutions. It can be difficult for them. You might also ask yourself whether that is true. So, should the government really not stand up for the Constitution and for us to have freedom of religion, but not religion, and thus to fight more actively to maintain the freedom that we have and it is primarily due to the influence of Christianity and to counteract the Islamisation that emanates from the facility that a praying room is?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145235	We agree so far that the rectors must be supported. They must not be left alone with these problems, and that is one of the reasons why we have decided to send this shepherd's letter. However, as I said, there must be a dialogue on what is the scale of the problem, because there are challenges. In other words, political Islam can press freedom on many different points: individual freedom, equality, freedom of spirit, critical thinking, etc. This is something we must have a long-term debate on and find a solution to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145311	Then it's Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145313	Thank you. I just had a phone call with a chairman of a technical school who was carrying this in his life a little while ago. He went to the Ministry of Education to see if he could get any guidance or help on how to deal with the radicalisation and desire for a prayer room, and he was not very satisfied with the message he received from the Ministry of Education. He didn't feel like he was getting the guidance he needed. So I am glad that there is now a shepherd's letter coming out and I would like to ask a few questions about its contents. Is this a recommendation from the government not to create a prayer room? Is this a requirement not to create a prayer room? Can it be seen as guidance from the Ministry, or what are the legal consequences of receiving such a letter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145409	I fully agree with the rapporteur that the Ministry does not have such guidance at present. I have spoken to a principal at a technical high school, I have spoken to a principal at a general high school, and this morning I have spoken to a teacher at the VUC who explains to me about the religious pressure that may be in some places. But there may also be other educational establishments where there is no pressure at all, so what should be done? Well, we're formulating a shepherd's letter, what exactly is going to be in it... it's not yet recorded... will not be a premonition, because a premonition, you might say, will be the same for everyone, it will be a real piece of legislation. So it's something that has to acknowledge that there's a management right local, there's a civil society, but also say: Try to hear here, you're not only facing this challenge, and we're also working on advising you on how to deal with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145509	Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145511	Thank you. I understand that it is not a premonition that comes from the Minister of Education to the educational institutions, but that it is a letter in which they will be told that they are not alone in the problems that the Minister in his speech referred to as major and real problems in educational establishments. Is it a recommendation from the government, or is it just a statement of opinion, or how are they going to take this letter down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145537	Now I am not a lawyer, so I do not think I will be able to use the exact right word here on the platform, so I have to apologise to the rapporteur. The exact correct legal word for that I would like to come back with. However, it is a question of me, as Minister of Education, at least recognising that there are problems and that it is more than one place. We've had the case of Langkaer Gymnasium, which has filled a lot. I have visited Langkaer Gymnasium, where you have huge cultural challenges, and I have also visited schools and other educational establishments and talked to rectors who explain to me that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145616	Then it's Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145620	The Minister recognizes that there is a problem, but at the same time the Minister does not want to prohibit the existence of praying rooms on the institutions, and that may be surprising. I would also like to ask about the shepherd's letter that the Minister will send out. The minister is talking about management rights. Can the Minister tell us a little about what the Minister wants to say in that shepherd's letter? Will the Minister write to the educational institutions that the Minister does not see that religious consideration should be given to the prayer room, or what will the Minister write in the shepherd's letter that is being sent out?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145659	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145701	Well, why doesn't the Minister want to legislate? It is, of course, the very difference, one might say, between the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party, namely that we also recognise that there may be problems that we refrain from legislating around, so that there are some problems that need to be dealt with in other ways than by legislating. We are a country with an extremely high level of legislation, and there must be a balance between the scale of the problem and the political solution that is offered. The letter is not yet written, so unfortunately I cannot present it in its wording.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145734	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145736	I find it strange that the Minister refers to a shepherd's letter and has given no thought at all to what should be in that shepherd's letter. The Minister says that there are cultural challenges, but that the Minister will not legislate in this area. In other words, it is hypocritical in some way that we recognise that there are major challenges in this area but will not act on it. So I must be very surprised that the Minister cannot even answer what the Minister has thought about what should be in a shepherd's letter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145805	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145807	I've done a lot of thinking. I can't read the letter from up here because it's not written. So there I have to disappoint the rapporteur. But in terms of using such strong terms as hypocrisy, etc. I think maybe we should stay too good for that. We have a serious problem here and we recognise it, and then we have various solutions. To swing up in that crane and say that now we must proclaim each other to be hypocrites, I think we should stay too good for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145837	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. First, it's sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221145859	The Danish People's Party wants to ban pray rooms at public educational institutions. Social democracy also sees problems with religious peer pressure on several Danish institutions and therefore believes that the discussion is relevant. We must protect young people from religious control from their peers, and therefore we do not want to preach in Danish schools. That is our starting point. Young Danish Muslims and I would like after a few weeks of debate to repeat Danish Muslims Some ask five times a day, and others do not. Some wear a scarf and others do not. Some drink alcohol and others do not. This freedom to practise one's religion as one wishes is at the heart of a democratic society. Therefore, we should also be aware that some young people are experiencing intense pressure from religious peers who tell them to wear a scarf, participate in prayer or not have boyfriends who have no background in their own culture. This should not be done at Danish educational institutions. Preaching and praying room support this control in schools, and so we welcome the discussion. I am aware that some people have questioned whether this is a problem at all. To this I would say that there is a reason why several schools have already closed praying rooms or prevented them from being established. Last night I called some school leaders in the West, where I myself was elected, and most people have a very active policy against praying room and preaching. They actually stop students if they gather in prayer at school, even if it takes place elsewhere than in a prayer room. They do this because they want to maintain the school as a secular place and protect the students from religious control. I have great respect for that. In these school managers, they're not racists, because then they wouldn't be school managers in the West. On the contrary, they do not campaign against Islam or other religions; they have thrown themselves into the fight for the right to practice their religion as they please. It is interesting, moreover, that precisely the schools that have been very clear in the media in not wanting religious preaching at school are exactly the same schools that are experiencing an increase in the number of young Muslims who are going towards school. It's interesting, isn't it? When I have spoken so much about Muslims and Islam, I would also like to stress that we would not have written the comments on this resolution, as the Danish People's Party has done. The proposers write that the aim is to combat Islamic social control. For Social Democracy, it is important that any changes apply to all religions and that we, as politicians, are clear in that there is no legislation for or against the preaching of certain religions. Last night I received a request from a mother to a young gay girl who felt excluded from a party at her educational institution organized by a Christian group who did not want homosexuals in their church. If it is otherwise true what the mother writes, then we can also question whether it really is right that public premises should be borrowed for such things. The reason why we cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution is that we want a better basis for decision-making. We have therefore already asked the Minister last week to tell us how many educational institutions have provided room for prayer today. And it will also be relevant to gain experience of their progress and to examine the state of affairs in our neighbouring countries. We would also like to see a number of other consequences highlighted, for example. The role of priests in universities, where they have been for many years. With these comments, we choose to vote yellow, that is, neither yes nor no. We will not support the specific resolution, but we call on the government to ensure a better basis for decision and to call the parties for discussions on the matter in the hope that a broad majority can agree to keep the preaching out of Danish educational institutions and ensure the opportunity for young people to practice their religion as they please. Finally, I would like to say that I do not know whether it will require legislative changes to be made, as the motion for a resolution proposes, or whether it can really be done by amending some notices or issuing a guide. But what matters to us is not whether it becomes a change of law or not; the crucial thing is that there is no preaching or prayer room in Danish educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150249	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150254	Of course, it is a pity that the Social Democrats will not vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. I respect the fact that you want more knowledge, but that knowledge has been gathered. Questions have been asked to a whole series of ministries about how many prayer rooms there are and where they are, so those questions are clearly answered by the ministries. So we have the knowledge that is needed. Something else is that it sounds a little as if the rapporteur has not read the proposal in full. It does not say that it is a matter of religious preaching. It does not say that it is the exclusion of homosexuals from anything. It says that we want to avoid providing facilities for prayer rooms. So it is very, very limited what it is really about. Does this mean that the rapporteur really supports the fact that there is a prayer room but is opposed to religious preaching? I do not fully understand the rapporteur's point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150356	It's an honest case. I should like to start by saying that the reason why I mentioned the example of a young homosexual girl was that I wanted to stress that religious peer pressure can also take place from Christian groups in Danish educational institutions and that it is therefore important for us that if we choose to change the legislation or if the Minister chooses to change a decree, then it should not be directed narrowly towards a particular religion; then it must apply to religions in general. When I speak not only of prayer room but also of preaching, it is because we in the Social Democratic Party believe that both prayer room and preaching should be kept out of Danish educational institutions. Have I read the motion for a resolution? I have. It's a half-A4 side, and it's a half-A4 side, and it's a half-A4 side. What is our starting point for voting yellow, namely that if such changes are to be made, we would like to find out, paragraph 1: whether this requires a change of law. And paragraph 2: If it requires a change of law, I think that just when we have to tamper with something like this, it would help us all if there had been a proper consultation round and a proper legal assessment by the Ministry of what the relationship is with the governing law and the constitution and other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150505	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150507	As I said, there is already a lot of material. It just sounds as if the rapporteur really thinks it is a very good thing that there is room for prayer, because otherwise why can the rapporteur not agree to vote in favour of this proposal which would remove praying room on the institutions? Then, of course, there is religious bullying in all religions. It is unpleasant and disgusting, and it must be condemned, but that is just not what we are talking about here. Here we are talking about prayer room, and that is very concrete. And it would be very easy for the Social Democratic Party to say: of course we support it, of course we are against Islamic social control out in educational establishments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150549	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150552	I am really, really sorry that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party believes that we are in favour of praying room. I do not think I have spent the day explaining why we are opposed to prayer rooms at Danish educational institutions. However, I would like to reiterate why we are not voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. Paragraph 1: The comments that are made are directed unilaterally at Islam, and we believe that if anything is to be changed, it must apply to all religions. Paragraph 2: We want a proper legislative process. And in addition, we would also like to have a look at whether it takes any legislative changes at all, or whether it just requires a modified announcement or maybe just issuing a new guide.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150630	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150633	Thank you. I am pleasantly surprised that the Social Democrats are voting yellow. I read on Twitter a short time ago that we would be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, so that must be the first positive surprise of the day. I also have to understand it correctly: now the rapporteur says that social democracy is generally opposed to any preaching and religious practice in educational establishments. Does this mean that this also applies to Christianity? So, does this mean that the Social Democrats are in favour of in no way practicing one's religion or praying, whether one is a Muslim or a Christian or a Hindu for that matter, at Danish educational institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150719	We are very much in favour of teaching religion. We are very much in favour of Christianity being taught because it is a Christian country. And I am a particularly strong supporter of teaching Christianity in schools where many young people have Muslim backgrounds, because that is the prerequisite for them to have some knowledge of what they must integrate into. But we are opposed to the preaching work, and we are opposed to the prayer room. Then I would say that we have learned something today, namely that you should not believe everything that says on Twitter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150746	I think so, too. This may not be the first time we have to face it. I just do not quite understand it, because there is in it that the rapporteur thinks that these prayers are being used for preaching. So, there is some central point in preaching or going down to your prayer room to pray. It is not preaching that one prays, for then one simply practises one's religion, which lies in freedom of religion. Then the rapporteur will not try to go into detail or go into a little more detail about where it is, the difference between preaching and practicing his religion, also in relation to Christianity and the other religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150831	Yes. First of all, when we are opposed to preaching and secondly, I would say that in some prayers I know that there has been preaching, that is, that there has simply been prayer. But that is far from what is happening in most places. There's only prayer in a prayer room. So I also tried to be a little precise about saying that we are opposed to the possibility of preaching, and
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150903	Then it's Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150907	Thank you. I am taking the floor because I would like to ask why the Social Democrats have moved in this area. There are probably more of us who are aware of this and have now come to vote yellow on this motion for a resolution. Could the rapporteur elaborate or perhaps put a few words on what is the reason why a change of attitude or a change of attitude has been made in a relatively short period of time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221150938	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, I have always supported the school managers who, on the one hand, have closed the bedrooms and, on the other hand, have banned the establishment of new bedrooms. You can look at it in a slightly larger perspective. I was born in 1981. That's where it was 1 percent. I'm not that old, and now we're getting close to 10%. It's been pretty fast. There is a change in the Danish population, which is why there are also some new discussions that are pushing for discussions that we could deal with in the past with the arm's length principle by saying that they will probably find out what we can do to an ever smaller extent. I believe that, as politicians, we must take a step forward and take some of the decisions that would otherwise have been taken in the institutions. I'm sorry, but I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151020	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151022	In the rapporteur's speech, however, the rapporteur actually mentioned that the rapporteur had examples of how it had just been handled out there in a good way. Is it because the rapporteur is aware that in some places there are leaders who do not take this responsibility on themselves, or is it because the rapporteur does not trust that these things can actually be dealt with locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151049	The school managers with whom I am in dialogue, I think, are doing well, but they also spend time on it, and they spend time discussing it both with parents and with young people, and it may be a lot of pressure to resist. I think it would suit the Danish Parliament not to leave it up to each educational institution to deal with this. This challenge is only gonna get bigger. So when the cultural meeting turns into a cultural clash, I think it is important for the Folketing to take a step forward and say: Here is the closet. This is how we see a Danish institution being organized.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151124	Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151127	It has been a little difficult to find out what the Social Democratic Party really thinks about the statements that have just been made on social media. But I would also like to ask whether the rapporteur will define religious service, because what does the rapporteur mean by that? Does the rapporteur also think that Christmas hymns or Bethlehemsalms should be banned in the run-up to Christmas? That is why I think we lack clear answers to the rapporteur when he says "religious service" - what the rapporteur means by that. It is very difficult to understand that the rapporteur is out in various media saying that one is against prayer when the rapporteur is on the floor at the same time saying that one will not vote in favour of this proposal from the Danish People's Party that we are debating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151224	Social democracy is When we do not want to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, it is precisely because we believe that if such a decision is to be taken, paragraph 1: we need to find out whether it requires legislative changes at all, and paragraph 2: if it requires legislative changes or changes in regulations, we would very much like the political discussion to take place on a more qualified basis, so that we can clear up many of the relevant objections, as I also hear from the House. what it will mean for Christianity and Christmas and other things, so that we don't do anything sloppy, but we do something proper. For of course it must be possible to sing a hymn for Christmas at Danish educational institutions. Otherwise, it's a complete hole in the head.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151308	When the rapporteur stands up and says that the rapporteur is against religious preaching, then the rapporteur must also define what the rapporteur means by it, because does the rapporteur also mean Christianity teaching? I could understand that the rapporteur said earlier that he did not mean that. So when is religious preaching? It may be that the rapporteur will make it clear to the members of the Folketing what the rapporteur thinks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151334	I don't know if it's so hard to know the difference and see that there's a difference between teaching the preaching work. It's pretty clear to me. And I am in favour of teaching religion, and I am particularly in favour of teaching the religion that is the cornerstone of Denmark, namely Christianity, but I am opposed to preaching a religion, and it is, no matter what religion it is, in Danish educational institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151357	Then it's mr. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151400	Thank you. The rapporteur has actually been very clear. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye has said that the Social Democratic Party is against praying room. I recognize that. I really think that's okay. The problem is that the rapporteur will not vote in favour of this proposal, which is actually very clear. It says it must apply to everyone. Bedrooms which have some form of religious affiliation must be closed down must be prohibited. So the proposal is actually very clear. But what I also hear the rapporteur say is that there are some comments that we have a little difficulty with, and there is also some knowledge that is lacking. I think that the Social Democrats, in line with the Danish People's Party, will ban these prayers. If we now look at these wordings, comments, and the Social Democrats get the knowledge they need, is the Social Democrats prepared, together with the Danish People's Party, to ban the praying room?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151510	I hope that the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party will be able to agree on this. I read the comments on the resolution in such a way that the Danish People's Party has a very special focus on the role of Islam in Danish educational institutions, where we will probably have a slightly more general and less specific look at it. But if we could agree, I would urge the Danish People's Party, together with us in the Social Democratic Party, to turn to the government and ask that we get an explanation of what this would actually require in legal terms. Does it require a change of law? I have been a little in doubt about that here during the day or does it really just require that a guide or a new decree be issued, so that at the Danish educational institutions there may not be any need for changes in the law, but rather just a clear statement from the Ministry, which I believe has an obligation to be very clear in the spit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151555	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151557	I actually take it as an outstretched hand that you want to find a solution with the Danish People's Party and the government. Does that mean that Mrs. Marie Krarup can sit with Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and possibly with the Minister and formulate a ban that applies for the prayer rooms, so that we will ultimately get them banned? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Will the Social Democrats, if we can just agree, find common ground and help to ban these prayers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151627	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151629	Yes, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, this should be seen as an invitation to the government to bring together the parties of the Danish Parliament and see if a majority can be obtained to ensure that there is neither preaching nor praying in Danish educational institutions. Whether it is in the form of a change of law or an announcement, or whatever it is, I leave it to people who are a little smarter than me to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151652	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151654	Thank you. I've actually been over this a lot, because as such, I'm not the big supporter of religion in public space either. However, on the other hand, I am also very much in favour of decentralization, and I believe that our own institutions of education can find their own way of making reality work out there. Now the rapporteur says that Denmark has changed and that the composition of the population has changed and that this means a new pressure, but I have tried to talk to people who are today in the education sector, and I have just not been able to find the burning platform there, so I have not been able to find those who say that there is a need for national parliament legislation against these praying rooms. So I would really like to hear from the rapporteur what makes this national legislation necessary now. What are those places where it doesn't work because I don't see it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151748	There are plenty or several educational institutions where young people, especially with Muslim backgrounds, but not only with Muslim backgrounds, feel pressured into different religious contexts and where managers need to use resources to deal with it. I think it would strengthen those managements if the Folketing made a general decision. However, I fully recognise the dilemma between decentralisation and then a clear political signal from Christiansborg. It is a balance that must be struck, but I think that we are about to be where it would strengthen the Danish education sector as a whole if there were a clear signal that, whether you are in an area where there are many young religious people or you are not, then the Folketing has fairly clear guidelines for the region's role in educational establishments, and that is that it should preferably stay outside the door. One must be able to walk through the door of an educational institution and be free from preaching and religious pressure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151845	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151849	I also believe that there are many problems with negative social control. We have also tried to address that in SF, but the vast majority of high schools have actually said that they do not want prayer room. They have made that decision, for example. also in Aarhus, where they experienced that there were problems. So I just don't see why national legislation is needed when it seems to work well in youth education. What is it that this is gonna change? Will negative social control be reduced with such a proposal here? I just think that some other tools are needed, so I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is seeing this burning platform, because I cannot really see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221151929	I do not believe that religious control will disappear if the prayer rooms are removed, but I believe that it will be a step in the right direction. From what I hear, it strengthens the extreme religious flow of a school if there is also a prayer room. It makes it easier to tell the fellow students or the other students at the school that now it is 11:40, now we have to go to the basement and pray. It's harder to say no if there's a religious space at the school. That is why I believe that in the red parties we must find a return to some of the original ideas on which our movements are founded, namely that we are in favour of people being able to have a religion, but we are opposed to it becoming part of public space.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152011	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152017	Thank you. Now my colleague Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, of course, got an answer out of the rapporteur when he said that the Social Democrats are involved in making some adjustments together. In the course of the morning I had some doubts as to whether it is a unanimous Social Democrat who speaks out or whether it may be there, the shoe prints, that is to say, you cannot find common ground within your own party. The rapporteur says that there are many leaders in high schools with whom the rapporteur has spoken, who say that they have had to use a great deal of resources in relation to religious prayer rooms. In this context, I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it has been in the field of Christian religious prayers and how many Christian religious prayers are in the various institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152115	Firstly, I would like to say that social democracy is a broad party, and when we discuss the proposals to be dealt with in this Chamber, it often happens that we do not agree, at least not in the first place. That is why we are spending some time on it, and today we have also spent some time discussing it, because people have different things in the backpack. Some have themselves been part of Christian groups in their high school, and others have been part of the education sector and perhaps heads of schools, and yet others, like myself, have been chosen in the Western region, where it takes up a lot. That is why it is important for us to have these matters discussed in depth. But I have been speaking on behalf of the Social Democratic Party all day. To the end, I would say: No, for those I have talked to from SOSU schools, VUC centres, colleges and technical schools, where you have this in life and spend resources on it, have said that it is only Muslim prayer rooms, one can say, or only Muslims who have used the prayer rooms and have filled something at school. And I would also like to say that it is a religious control that has particularly affected young Muslims, and that is why I actually consider this to be something that is far along the way also a matter of defending them a little and saying: they have the right to practice Islam just as they like.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152219	Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152222	I am happy to confirm that at least. I think that when we spend a great deal of time and energy on resolutions in this Chamber, as I know Mrs Krarup has done, we must also concentrate on the problems that exist. And the rapporteur himself says that it is not the problems of Christianity that are in these institutions, but the problems of Muslims. That is why I cannot understand why the Social Democrats cannot go in and say that we find common ground for this. Because it is precisely in the field of religion that the problems are, and then we first address them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152308	First of all, I would like to say that Mrs Susanne Eilersen of the Danish People's Party started by asking if I had seen school leaders spend resources on other than Muslim groups. And there was my answer no. But I could also hear from today's debate at our group meeting that there is also social control among people other than Muslims. And that is why I think that when we work on these issues, which can also be a little emotional, it is important that we practice being very precise and not speaking in general terms. For the worst thing that could happen to the Danish people's government is that we are beginning to wage war on a single religion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152345	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152406	Thank you, President. With regard to B 54, I can tell you from the outset that we in the Left are voting against the proposal. First of all, I need to stress that we in the Left are against praying room, and especially if they are used as a tool for social control. Social control is, in fact, a phenomenon involving the repression of the individual, a phenomenon which we cannot accept in any way. In Danish society, every citizen must actually have the opportunity to shape his life and life as he wishes. We should not be subject to a regime of, for example: social rules and standards. We therefore set aside some 227 million in the autumn. kr. It is precisely to combat social control and parallel societies and many different initiatives. These efforts are undoubtedly needed, because unfortunately we find that many young people are being subjected to social control. But when it comes to the motion for a resolution on the ban on praying room, we have to say that we say no to it, and we do so on the basis that we, as a liberal party, believe that this is a matter for the leaders of the individual educational institutions to decide on and deal with. We simply believe that it is the local leaders who actually know how best to handle these tasks. After all, the educational institutions have a very large task and a very important task in ensuring that our students and our students are prepared to live in a democratic society that includes both freedom, equality and equality, but also freedom and freedom of religion are important elements. We believe that it is local, we have the best conditions for assessing how these things can be organized at the individual educational institutions. At the same time, it is also important for me to stress that we may also need to be careful that we do not have too much detail here from Christiansborg and almost begin to dictate what the individual premises can be used for around the educational institutions. Finally, I think it is worth highlighting what the Minister also mentioned in his speech, namely that the Minister for Education and Education and Research has decided, on behalf of the government, to send a joint shepherd letter to the educational institutions to emphasise what the leaders around the country should also be aware of. With these words, I would like to conclude by saying that we cannot support B 54.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152714	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152718	It is a very sympathetic principle that you want to have the individual educational institution set the rules, but it is a principle that has emerged at a time when you were in a different situation. You were not in a situation of mass immigration and cultural clash. The problem is that you run the risk of being in a situation where you are unable to give the individual the freedom that the rapporteur sings in the first part of his speech, because there is a system of social control that comes from this religion, which allows for certain ways to be exercised on educational institutions via the praying room. In order to achieve the freedom described by the rapporteur, it may be necessary to lay down rules whereby there may be no such facilities from which strong Islamic social control can emerge, such as: as a young Muslim girl does not get the opportunity to break out of the systems that one actually wanted to break out of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152828	I am very much in agreement with many of the words that Mrs Krarup has just said. Where we may not then be entirely in agreement, I actually believe that in several places it is handled in a very good way. There are educational institutions, which the former rapporteur actually mentioned, which have just dealt with this locally. Then I must also say that I am very fond of the path of dialogue, and before we resort to any stronger tools, I think that is where we need to start, and that is actually what I sense. The shepherd's letter is somehow a further step we are now taking, but at the same time also to ensure that the leaders in question are well dressed to be able to make these decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152922	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152924	I am well aware that there are some leaders around, who are the task grown up, and hurry for them, but there are also some who are not. I have been approached by students who are such places, and they suffer from it, and I think that is a pity, and I think we should help them out of that. I think we have an obligation to do so, in order to give them room for the freedom that the rapporteur has just said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221152954	I fully agree with the rapporteur of the DF that we must combat social control, and I think that we have agreed on this precisely in relation to the rate pool funds that have been allocated. 227 million kr. has been set aside and there are a number of measures that have been decided and which must now be put into effect, and I think that is exactly the way to go: it is to focus on this part and then get help where there are problems, or that, for that matter, when each of us hears that there are young girls or other young people who are subjected to social control, we also take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153032	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153036	The rapporteur comes from a liberal party that would like to see its own rules drawn up locally, decentralisedly and to find out for itself what is best out there. Then the rapporteur spoke of a little stronger tools, and the rapporteur also touched on the shepherd's letter. Can the rapporteur, from the platform today, give his hands on the fact that if we stand here again in a year's time and still have the same concerns with the educational institutions, is the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party prepared to go one step further if it turns out that this shepherd's letter is not enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153118	It is always difficult to stand and give a guarantee a year into the future about how we will look at it at that time. We can take the example of the Social Democrat rapporteur, who was here a short time ago, and they have at least moved as a party, and we in the Left do so. We move too, and sometimes you get smarter when you get more knowledge. I am not going to give Mrs Susanne Eilersen guarantees here from the platform today, but I can guarantee that we will, of course, follow developments in this area, and this is a task on which we have an enormous focus and take a huge share of responsibility for solving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153203	The questioner? No. Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153223	I agree with the authors' comments that the purpose of the educational institutions is education and learning, and I would add that on the one hand it is also important that it is on a secular basis that there is freedom of spirit and that there is a critical approach to learning and teaching. Religions should not govern what is going on in these institutions. The social control of religious orientations can be very damaging and unpleasant for the students affected. That's comparing it to bullying. The problem is that it takes place at several levels and is not linked to whether there is a prayer room or not. Overall, it is the head of the institution, the head of the board, who is responsible for the failure of this kind and for the counter-work. They have a duty to take care of it if it happens. So the issue of combating negative social control must be taken seriously or not. Basically, the problem described is a problem that needs to be resolved locally, and it will not continue to impose a ban on praying rooms. Nor do I believe that religious groups have the right to pray. It is not the case that because the Enhedslisten opposes a ban, we believe that, on the other hand, we have the right to a prayer room. We do not believe that there is any religion in those educational institutions. Again, I would say that it is a local decision that must be taken by the institution's management, and so we have full confidence that it can be done. In some places it will be the case that bedrooms have a very small significance also in relation to social control, in other places it may be more serious, some will say. It will be very different. We also know that in other places, including private ones, there are private companies that have had prayers for many years without any problems, that is, there is a group of employees who use them every once in a while. So basically, we believe that there are problems with negative social controls. Something must be done about this, it must be countered, and we cannot support it, but we cannot support resolving these problems either by imposing a national ban on praying rooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153511	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153527	I have the starting point for public institutions to be secular. This may be particularly true of institutions such as the courts; anyone who gets their case must be able to feel confident that they will receive fair and open-minded treatment. This is also true in hospitals where everyone must feel safe knowing that their very lives and their well-being count as much as everyone else's. In my view, however, educational institutions should also have a secular character. What is cultivated at an educational establishment is ultimately the free, critical and rational idea. And there one knows from experience that when religions do not know and do not understand their place, it is precisely something that may conflict with the free, critical and rational thought. If you look at the matter in that light, there is of course no need for a higher level of religion if, with a self-invented word, I have to put it that way in the public educational institutions than there are today. Then there is the question of how to keep public institutions secular in administrative terms. To introduce a central ban, or to leave the decision on the organisation of the institutions to their own managements. There, I believe, a central ban is out of proportion to the scale of the problem. Let me give you an example. I live in Ribe in southern Jutland, and on the distance between Ribe and the Danish-German border, which is approx. 50 km further south, I do not think there has ever been a demand for a prayer room. In this situation, should a law be passed and a decree be drawn up and sent to local municipalities, where no one has ever received a request for the creation of a prayer room? I would describe that as a political overreaction. No one can say whether the struggle for secular and public institutions will in future require tougher means, but so far I think that local leaders, on the basis of a principle of proportionality, should make the decision to preserve their institutions secular, and that is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153825	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221153836	Thank you. I should also like to start by saying that the alternative cannot support this resolution. A few years ago, seven years back maybe, I worked for a relatively short period in Tryg. That was when Stine Bosse was the grand lady in Tryg, and at that time a reorganisation was made, both organisationally and physically. The whole of Tryg's headquarters was changed inside, and one of the things that was done was that a still room was set up down at one end. And this quiet room, which was called a quieter room, was a place you could go down to pray if you were a believer and needed to go down and pray. There were prayer blankets down there, you could go down and have yoga, if that's what you needed, there were yoga mats down there, and there were beanbag chairs, so you could go down and take a nap if you needed to relax a bit during working hours. It was one of the greatest successes of the entire reorganisation that was going on out there, namely the introduction of this poster room that you could use for, whatever you wanted, depending on what you needed. It is the business community, and it was Tryg who introduced it at the time. Then when you go to the Walking Hall and go because of the constitution, the words stand out on our wall. The four minds are part of what our constitution is built on, and that is one of the things you show when you, for example, show. In Tryg creates a quiet room that employees can use as they like. If we in our national assembly and the managers of the state for which we are responsible are to learn from the business community, we must learn from Tryg when, for example, they learn from Tryg. Do something like they did in their time. For that is then generous, and it is then open-minded that one believes that one's employees or a student in youth education can find a way of practicing what they need in accordance with the lifestyle that they have chosen to live. Then Mr. Mattias Tesfaye himself the question from up here. Now I quote from him: I know some people are asking what the problem is. I just want to ask that again: what's the problem? Yes, there have been local problems, and there will always be, there will be tomorrow, and there will be in fourteen days' time, and there will be in two months' time. There will certainly be local problems in some individual educational establishments where, in some way, you cannot find a way of properly managing prayer rooms or where, for example, there is a lack of transparency. are carried out degrees of social control. When there is such a problem, one simply has to be confident that the individual educational institution tackles the problems in accordance with the management right they have in the educational institutions. How long are we gonna keep talking about this, like somewhere else, even in recognition that there are problems around here in the basic, big question is not a problem? Now the press is going out there today, and this motion for a resolution that we are going to discuss today has been on the television scene all morning, even though it is not a problem at the end of the day. There are so many other problems we could stand up here and discuss, but then we will have to discuss something that can be managed very easily in the concrete institutions if there are local problems. I would like to quote Jesper Langagergaard, director of Danish Universities, for he says in Jyllands-Posten today and I quote: I do not know cases where prayer rooms have caused problems or social control at universities. On the contrary, they are a signal of spaciousness and high ceilings. Quote out. Why are we not listening to this in this debate? When we begin to say that praying means social control or radicalisation, it is wrong, because it is not the existence of religion that leads to radicalisation or social control; it is the exclusion of Muslims or other minorities if we do what makes one feel excluded from society and therefore reacts to society and to the institutions of society. It is when we exclude special people and groups that we experience a counterculture. Let us, however, allow room for diversity to accommodate all the different people that exist in our society. So let us give the freedom to the institutions to solve any problems that may exist and let me conclude with a quote from the Bible: the Word creates what it mentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221154324	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221154333	Thank you. In fact, I think it is a bit too bad that we should spend our time in the Danish Parliament today on mind control, because this is about the Danish People's Party simply wanting to ban what is Muslim. But when we spend our time here in Parliament on it, and when we spend all day discussing it in the media, we do not spend our time on what is important, and the important thing from a radical point of view is that we fight where social control takes place. And we are not doing anything about social control by just removing a room. I do not believe that we in this House should prohibit educational institutions from setting up a room for prayer or for silence or whatever they want. Even so, as long as we have freedom of religion in public spaces here in Denmark. Because if you had to do this, wouldn't you ban student priests? Or what about the prayer and mourning rooms that are in hospitals or in nursing homes? I think we should spend our time discussing how we are actually combating social control, the coercion and repression that is taking place in some places. And schools can already choose to make rooms or not make rooms or close rooms. So if there are any rectors out there who, as some of the other rapporteurs have said, feel in a jam, then we in the Folketing must do what we can to help the rectors. But then we have to help with what works. At any rate, we would like to discuss this with the Minister for Education radically if there is a need for even greater support for schools, more people who can move out and help schools to combat social control. We believe that's gonna work. We do not believe in this and therefore we are against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221154543	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221154557	Thank you. Nor will SF support this proposal, because we believe that our self-serving educational institutions, with our independent managements and boards, are the best at managing our self-serving educational institutions. That is what lies in the principle of self-serving educational institutions. Nevertheless, I would like to admit that I have actually been thinking a lot about this proposal, especially after the Social Democrats announced that they support a total ban on praying rooms. When I've thought about it so much, I think it's because as a socialist I think that I am a natural skepticism of religions, including in public space. I have never been the great supporter of prayer rooms in educational institutions. Nor have I ever been in favour of confirmation preparation in primary school. I think that religion can be oppressive in many ways if it is used incorrectly, but I also acknowledge that and it is such a struggle that I continually have with myself that religion can be something really good for many people. What I think this is basically about is whether religion bothers other people or doesn't. Does it help to force other people to do something, or is it not? And what's the best defense against that? I do not always believe that politics is about making legislation from a central point of view. I think that this could be about sending out some political signals. In fact, I think that today's debate has been one of the most interesting that I have participated in, because many political signals have been sent out and because there has been a slight reversal of the multiples or minorities. I am convinced that local solutions can be found around here. I would also like to say that I think this about when religion contributes to social coercion and when religion bothers others is interesting. I can't help but think about it, either, when mr. Mattias Tesfaye says that he has a feeling or experience that praying room around means that there are young people who are subjected to social control or that there are young people who are lured into extremist environments. I think we should take this seriously, if that is right, and I would also like to help try to find out if it is right. I just wanted to say that these aren't the signals I've heard. That is not what I hear from the educational institutions. On the contrary, I have heard that the places where there seems to have been a problem have quite consistently closed down the prayer rooms and that many other places have been found friendly solutions, for example. in the form of meditation rooms and immersion rooms, where people can go and be in peace. If it is the case that there are places where prayer room leads to social control, then I think we should have it examined, but I have just not heard that from anyone other than the rapporteurs today. I think this is a very sensible way to go by the government. It is not always I say it, but I think it is actually when you send out a shepherd's letter which addresses it here because you respect the fact that we have decentralised local institutions, but also have the courage to send out a political signal. I would like to make some recommendations on what I think should be included in the shepherd's letter, because I really think that the most important thing in this debate is to combat social control and ensure that it does not take place, even in educational establishments. I believe, among other things, that it should be said that training should have a critical approach to religious practice in educational establishments, especially if it bothers others or involves social coercion. I think there should be some guidelines on how educational establishments can combat negative social control, not only in relation to praying rooms, but more generally, because I believe that this will also be something that needs to be spent some time on in the future. I mean, you have to look at the consequences. In other words, should we sharpen the penalties for students who exercise social control over others? For example: could allow for discarding or immediate exclusion from praying rooms, or should prayer rooms be shut down immediately? In fact, I think it is okay to look at whether the penalties should be tightened up here, and I also think that help should be given to those students who have been subjected to social control. I think that would be some of the things that could be quite exciting to address in such a shepherd's letter. After all, I do not think that the most important thing in this debate is whether there is a meditation room or a immersion room at the University of Copenhagen. I think the most important thing is that we avoid negative social control in the future, and I am convinced that there are other ways that are more effective than a total ban on praying rooms, but I would be happy to take the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155028	We will have that in the form of a brief remark from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155033	Thanks for the speech. I'm so sorry, sir. Jacob Mark has not thought a little longer, for a little longer when he was on the verge of supporting the proposal. Because we agree that it is a good idea to combat negative social control. What we obviously do not agree on is whether or not there is a problem, and I believe that we should listen to those who have the problem. One of their problems is that they cannot stand up publicly with it. I have received confidential communications from people who dare not stand up in public because they are already under pressure. And that's why it doesn't help so much to call the principal or the head of the educational institution to see if things are going well. He will probably think that things are going well because it is really difficult for these students to get through with their problems. So I think that we should look into this and not shut down, so do not think it is a prejudice, that there is a problem, because there is actually a problem out there that should be taken seriously. So I would urge that we do so together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155147	I think that there is a problem, too, but the question is just how best to solve this problem. And then the question is, How big is the problem? I also kind of opened up that I wanted to look into it. I have actually tried to call you today, I have also spoken to Danish universities, and I have read about it, and I just have to say that the rectors who have experienced problems have shut down the prayer rooms and that in the other places it seems to be going well. So is there a need for national legislation? I think that the rapporteur is actually right when he says that you cannot just make a call to a principal. That is why I say that I would like to look into it a little more. I have no objection to asking the students whether any of them find this a nuisance to them. I do not mind asking, for example. Ethnic youth working with people who have fled from social control, if that is something they have experienced. I just have to say that there is no basis, there is no burning platform for making a national ban, because so far I actually think it seems that the educational institutions have managed to handle it themselves. And I myself have tried to make further proposals on what could be done decentralisedly and how we could contribute politically to working with it decentralizedly, in order to combat negative social control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155256	I think it is a pity that the rapporteur does not have any confidence in the information I provide from people, but of course I would hope that they will also address the rapporteur, because that is a problem. And I think that when someone has such a problem, it is something we should take seriously, because we cannot live with in Denmark, that we do not have the freedom to achieve the integration we want and where everyone has the opportunity to make use of the freedom that is normally in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155332	Yes, but I think it's nice that there are several parties in here who, across the wings, have an interest in combating negative social control. The SF has been addressing this for quite some time. I also believe that negative social control must be combated, regardless of which religion it comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155348	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark, there are no more brief remarks. And we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155401	I would also like to start by saying that we cannot support the proposal. I would like to stress that we are not in favour of praying rooms which can support Islamic social control and thus further Islamisation of Danish society, which is based on equality, freedom and democracy, as the Minister also mentioned earlier. But with a ban on praying rooms, we can see some problems in relation to others. Christian free schools and Christian students. That is, for example, the case. so that at the University of Copenhagen there is an association of Christian lawyers who would like to meet and want to share the faith with each other. If we introduce a ban, we will have problems with those who want to live out the Christian faith on which our society is founded. Having said that, we believe that we must keep an eye on developments, because we must pay close attention to combating social control, which can take place in Islamic prayer rooms, where some students can be forced to pray against their will and be subjected to social control. We must, of course, fight that. It is the individual educational institutions that are best acquainted with local conditions and thus have the best conditions to decide how the premises should be used in the institutions and how the local conditions should be arranged for the students. We in the Conservatives do not think that we should deprive them of that power of decision, and therefore we cannot support the proposal. We support the shepherd's letter which the Minister mentioned earlier, and we would very much like to see the shepherd's letter and be involved in it when it comes to its design.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155604	There is a brief comment from Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155606	Thanks for the speech. This is an alternative form of Christianity, which the rapporteur knows about here in Denmark. I don't know that one. I mean, I've only heard of praying rooms in connection with Islamic immigration and Islamic immigrants who want it, or converts. But I've never heard of anyone wanting a Christian prayer room. What would you do with it? I mean, it hasn't existed until we got immigration, so I don't see why you should be worried about hitting Christian students with a ban on praying rooms, because Christian students don't have room for prayer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155654	I haven't talked about prayer room for Christian students. I have talked about the fact that there are various Christian students who have organized themselves with other Christians, and they want to meet sometimes and talk about their faith and have some fellowship around it. I can predict that if we put in place a ban on gathering and meeting to live our faith, then we can have a problem with other religions, it can be Christianity, it can be Judaism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155730	Mrs. Marie Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155732	Well, you can get a lot of problems if you make a lot of strange suggestions, but now this is a proposal to ban praying room. And there are Christian students who want to cultivate their Christianity in various ways, not a problem, just as Muslims do not have a problem with the fact that they can of course cultivate Islam, because we have freedom of religion. But there does not have to be a prayer room in an educational institution to be a Muslim or a Christian. So we're just talking about some very different things. This proposal is about banning bedrooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155809	I can only repeat what I said before, namely that I see a problem in going out and making national legislation prohibiting praying rooms. Because then you have to go out and say that it has to be a place where the Islamic faith is being developed. And I am quite sure that this is not the way to go out and make specific legislation in relation to other human rights and what else we have committed ourselves to. So I can see a problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155844	We thank the rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Krarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221155859	Denmark is a Christian country, and section 4 of the Constitution gives precedence to Christianity. Among other things: That is why we have freedom of religion, but not religion. This is one of several reasons why we should take action against Islamisation in educational institutions. With this proposal, the Danish People's Party will ensure that all educational institutions from primary school to higher education do not support Islamic social control and thus further Islamisation of Danish society, because it hampers integration. The educational institutions should not allow room for prayer, as such places are not compatible with Danish traditions and are not compatible with the purpose of an educational institution which is teaching and learning and not religious influence or ritual performance. It is only within Islam that you have prayer room. As immigration from Muslim countries has increased, the demands of immigrants to set up Denmark and few conditions adapted to Muslim regulations and customs have increased. In the Muslim tradition there is a sacred law that grants daily prayers, and at the same time there is a strong tradition of checking whether others comply with the sacred law of Sharia. In Denmark we call it social control. Public educational institutions should not support Islamic social control by setting up rooms that can be used for prayer rooms. It will be an opportunity for others in the group of Muslims to check whether a student or student is using these prayer rooms and whether the exercise is done in the right way. Thus it becomes more difficult for those who want to break out of the pattern to get the freedom to do so. The Danish People's Party is clearly of the opinion that when more and more prayer rooms are opened at educational institutions, it is also an expression of a tendency to take more account of Islam at educational institutions, and we in the Danish People's Party think this is wrong. When you go to an educational establishment, you have to concentrate on the education that is organized. The educational institutions are primarily for children and young people, and children and young people in particular are more sensitive to what their friends say and do. A prayer room can thus help to keep them in a certain pattern through the social control mentioned here. In Denmark it should not be a free choice for public educational institutions to adapt the facilities so as to check whether Islam is being practiced and whether it is being practiced in a certain sense. For remember, Denmark is a Christian country. That is why, of course, we hope that the other parties of the Things will vote in favour of this proposal when it comes to voting, so that we can close pray rooms in public educational establishments. And the Social Democratic Party does not need to be as concerned about the process as we heard in the rapporteur's speech..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So everything the rapporteur wanted in the chair in his rapporteur's speech can easily be done in the process. So the Social Democrats do not have to vote yellow, they can vote green for this, and we will encourage them to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221160310	Thank you to the rapporteur for the authors. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221160338	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 23 February. We must have the reason for the question, and we must do so by the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221160356	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has convened this inquiry debate with the wording: Will the Minister explain what it takes to introduce a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities, including whether the government will introduce access to complaints about discrimination due to disability being dealt with by the Equal Treatment Board? We have done so because it is a great wish of the Danish People's Party that no people with disabilities should be discriminated against, even outside the labour market. And then we have listened to the great wish of the organisations, including Danish Handicap organisations, which have long fought for it. With the question debate, the Danish People's Party will focus on the area and get the government to act and to get it to work on a legislative proposal that leads to a ban on discrimination against people with disabilities. The Danish People's Party therefore sent back in January a proposal for a adoption text to the Ministry, which would require the government to initiate a legislative work on a ban on discrimination, and c. Three weeks later there was a announcement from the Minister that the Minister would like to work for a ban and legislate in this area. This was a great joy to all those who have been fighting for this for a very long time. Unfortunately, we have witnessed through the media and have heard it through people with disabilities' own stories, among others. In the videos produced by the Institute for Human Rights, there is unfortunately discrimination and discrimination. We must by no means accept that. That is why legislation is needed in this area, and it is necessary to have the opportunity to complain about it in the Equal Treatment Board when faced with discrimination. Despite the Minister's positive announcements, the Danish People's Party has chosen to maintain the question debate as we believe it is important to take the debate. At the same time, all parties will have the opportunity to give the government a number of good advice on what legislation should also contain and what the ban on discrimination should contain. It is not right for people to be discriminated against because of a disability. That is why we are looking forward to a very good debate today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221160621	Thank you. It is a question, so we have an answer from the Minister. It's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221160636	Thank you, President. Today's question debate is about the introduction of a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities and, in concrete terms, questions are asked about what it takes to introduce such a ban and whether the government will introduce access for complaints to be dealt with by the Equal Treatment Board. Before answering the question, I would like to make it clear that discrimination in any form is unacceptable, regardless of whether it is based on gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion or disability. It is a fundamental principle of Danish law that all people are equal before the law. In Danish law, the general principle of equality of administrative law applies to public authorities, and public authorities are therefore not allowed to engage in undue negative discrimination against people with disabilities. In addition, we have had a ban on discrimination in the labour market for a number of years. It follows from the law prohibiting discrimination on the labour market, etc. that there must be no direct or indirect discrimination on the grounds of disability in the labour market. When Denmark ratified the UN Disability Convention in 2009, it was then considered that it was not necessary to comply with the Convention that Denmark introduced a general prohibition clause. In other words, it was considered that Denmark fulfilled the legal obligations laid down in Article 5 of the Convention, which obliges States to provide persons with disabilities with equal and effective legal protection against discrimination on all grounds. In addition, in September 2014, Denmark acceded to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on Individual Complaints to the UN Disability Committee, thereby also stressing the desire for a society of equal value, equal opportunities and equal participation. However, since the ratification of the UN Disability Convention, Denmark has received a number of recommendations from both international and national levels to introduce a ban that protects people with disabilities from discrimination outside the labour market. This is highlighted among other things. in the criticism that it seems quite unreasonable that one can be punished if one refuses to serve or give access to a person because of e.g. their race, skin colour or sexual orientation, but if a person with disabilities is denied service or access to a theatre, cinema, disco or restaurant, there is no protection against discrimination. Try to think about what it must feel like to get into such a restaurant and then be met with that here you can't get in because you have a disability. There is nowhere to go either frustration or an appeal against that discrimination. I think that must be a very violent feeling. At the same time, we can see from a study by the SFI on the everyday life and living conditions of people with disabilities that these people are more affected than those without disability by discrimination solely because of their disability, and I really find this worrying. As Minister for Social Affairs, therefore, I cannot close my eyes to the fact that there are areas where the protection of people with disabilities against discrimination is not good enough and there is a need to focus on how best to combat discrimination against people with disabilities. In today's question, as I said, I am asked to explain what it takes to introduce a general ban on discrimination on grounds of disability, and I am also asked to answer whether the government will introduce access to complaints being dealt with by the Equal Treatment Board. I would like to answer the last question first. For as you may have been able to read in the press and as Mrs Adsbøl also mentions, the government has proposed a general ban on discrimination and that in future it should be possible to complain to the Equal Treatment Board in the event of infringements. Therefore, I am also very pleased to be able to tell you that the Ministry has already started work on drafting a bill to implement the decision. During the years when I was a social rapporteur, a ban was something that we discussed several times in the rapporteur's group. We have talked about it in the Committee on Social Affairs, at conferences, at a great many meetings around the country, and that is something that has been in the back of the head for a long time. In fact, I would like to highlight Mrs Karina Adsbøl from the Danish People's Party, because she has repeatedly focused on disability, and as a result she is able to get stuck in a case and stubbornly work with it, until she succeeds in convincing her fellow human beings. And it has succeeded, and thank you for that. We can only be happy about that. In relation to the concrete model of a ban on discrimination against people with disabilities, it is still too early to say exactly what it will contain, but I can say that it is intended to introduce a general ban on discrimination on grounds of disability through civil law regulation. In short, civil law means drawing up a new law banning discrimination against people with disabilities outside the labour market. In other words, we are pursuing the same model, which has been chosen in relation to ethnic equality, where the law applies to discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin outside the labour market. And, of course, there will have to be a specific position on the scope of the law, including which elements should be included to ensure that people with disabilities can, as far as possible, obtain the same opportunities and enjoy the same rights as people without disabilities. A solution to civil law will also have to be found as to how infringements of a non-discrimination ban are to be enforced. And, as I have said, the government is proposing that cases relating to infringements of the law may be brought before the Equal Treatment Board, which is an independent administrative board of appeal. The advantage is that there will be the same right of appeal which already applies in relation to discrimination on grounds of ethnicity and gender and in relation to discrimination on grounds of disability in the labour market. Thus, in the event of a complaint, the Equal Treatment Board will be able to take decisions as to whether the prohibition of discrimination has been infringed and, where appropriate, to award compensation to the injured party. With this solution, we are responding to the recommendations of the UN Disability Committee, the Institute for Human Rights and, above all, the UN Disability Committee, which provides broad and detailed protection against discrimination and at the same time ensures the same regulation that applies to discrimination against people with disabilities in relation to the labour market. It will be transparent and it will be uniform. In conclusion, I would like to repeat what I started by saying: discrimination in any form is unacceptable, whether it is based on gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion or disability. I am therefore proud that the work on a new law has now been initiated and a new law has been put in place to ensure that in future it will be prohibited to discriminate against people with disabilities and that there is access to the Equal Treatment Board. Of course, a thorough preparatory work will have to be carried out, including: relate to the extent to which the ban is to be applied, and thus to the resulting consequences. In future legislative work, therefore, there will be, among other things: be involved in the experience of the other Nordic countries, all of which already have a ban on discrimination on grounds of disability outside the labour market. And I expect that the bill will be put forward in the forthcoming assembly of parliaments. Finally, I would just like to say that I think it is a very relevant debate to take part today too. I am very pleased that the Danish People's Party has called it, and I would like once again to thank Mrs Karina Adsbøl, who has been working on this issue for many, many years and has fought this battle and has fought it so hard that the rapporteurs have for many years turned their eyes on the need for something to happen in this area. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221161425	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments in this instance on my list, so the Minister is now off duty. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers. And there was even praise from the Minister to the rapporteur for the authors of the proposals, and that is a rare good brotherhood in this Chamber. I do not know whether the rose should go the other way too, but now is the opportunity there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221161448	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for your kind words on the part of the Minister. I would also like to commend the Minister for finally taking the lead in fulfilling this great wish, which has been too many for many years. It is the position of the Danish People's Party that people with disabilities are entitled to a dignified and safe life, both in economic and human terms. People with disabilities must be treated as much as possible as people without disabilities. This is true, for example. in relation to education, housing and health. As the Minister mentioned earlier, Danish legislation already prohibits discrimination against persons with disabilities in the labour market, but it does not apply to a general ban on discrimination against persons with disabilities which guarantees this group of citizens protection against discrimination, for example. in connection with access to transport opportunities, information, political participation, etc. The Danish People's Party believes that there is a need for people with disabilities to be protected by a genuine ban on discrimination, so that we ensure that all people with disabilities have a legal right not to be discriminated against and thus to be able to live and function in Danish society on equal terms with other citizens. That is why it is actually a great pleasure today to stand here on the platform because it finally succeeds and that the minister has been responsive and will work on it here. The Institute for Human Rights' proposal for a law on the prohibition of discrimination due to disability from 2016 indicates that Denmark does not have a general ban on discrimination due to a disability. The Institute for Human Rights writes among other things::That the problem is not just a theoretical, legal discussion shows, among other things. a 2013 SFI report (Everyday life and living conditions of persons with disabilities...). This shows that 23 percent of all persons with a major physical impairment have experienced discrimination. For people with major mental impairments, this figure is 32 percent. The quote shows that discrimination against people with disabilities is a serious and concrete problem that many people experience in their daily lives without having legal protection in areas other than the labour market. I have also seen several of the video clips shown by the Institute for Human Rights and they describe very well what it feels like to be discriminated against. A mother tells in the video clip how her four-year-old son was thrown out of a private kindergarten because her son had diabetes. After all, it is terrible for a family to experience this and not least for the little boy who just needed help and support and guidance because of his diabetes. A blind man tells me what it was like to be kicked out of a restaurant when he brought his guide dog. The man himself tells that the experience made him feel like a second-class citizen because of his disability. There are several unfortunate examples of this, and you can see the films on the Department of Human Rights website. There are also examples of how the building regulations are not always complied with and followed. I remember when the UN building in Copenhagen was built. This was subject to a number of criticisms because there was no prospect of the building being equipped with a telecommunications sling system, and so at the time I contacted Villy Søvndal when he was Minister for Foreign Affairs, and this led the Minister to ensure that a telecommunications sling system was installed. Accessibility is incredibly important, both the physical, so that you can participate, even if you are in a wheelchair, but also in relation to telecommunications sling systems, online availability and many other places. I therefore believe that it is the duty of the current government at all times to ensure that the building regulations are followed up. The Danish People's Party is of the opinion that the government should do its part to increase accessibility in public spaces, and that the government should also set targets for this. Then, on behalf of all parties, I shall read out a text of adoption on behalf of all parties, yes, it is a great day today: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament stresses that discrimination against all forms of discrimination is unacceptable, regardless of whether it is based on sex, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion or disability. It is the clear intention of the Folketing that people with disabilities should be protected from discrimination also outside the labour market. The Danish Parliament therefore notes with satisfaction that the government will start work on drafting a legislative proposal to introduce a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities who are outside the labour market. The model will involve the right of appeal to the Equal Treatment Board. The Danish Parliament also notes that rules on accessibility relating to new construction must be complied with. The Danish Parliament supports the start of legislative work as soon as possible so that the bill can be presented in the 2017-18 parliamentary assembly. • V 40). Then I think we can clap each other on the shoulders and say that it works very well when we work together across the parties and then we manage to get something through. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221162017	Thank you to the rapporteur. So in addition to praise, there is also agreement in the whole thing. We can then welcome this in such an important matter. The rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221162031	Thank you. There is also much more to be welcomed, President. At any rate, I am glad that I am being allowed to replace our general rapporteur in the field of disability policy today, because that is, of course, Mr President. Orla Hav, and he's somewhere else. After many years of practical work in the field of disability policy, I think it is very nice to be here today. I have been involved in many years of good development, which is why it is nice to be allowed to come up here today in such an important debate as the one we are having now, that there should be legislation against discrimination because of a person's disability or disability, even outside the labour market, where legislation has been in place for several years. So thank you for having the question debate today. I very much agree with the Minister in her statement that we should not just do so because we have a UN convention. No, we have to legislate against discrimination because everything else would be unfair. We are then the last country in the Nordic region to join that part of the disability convention. But it should not shadow the fact that we have now finally come to the conclusion that we are ready for it. That is not the way it should be. When my own party was in government last time, we also took part in the voluntary additional protocol, which allows a complaint to be made to the UN Disability Committee. So something's happened along the way. There has also been an initiative that has taken a few years, with the Anti-discrimination Unit, which has looked at what is causing discrimination and what discrimination cases are running. So we have a basis for investigation now, which means that we are all ready to move forward. The decision-making basis is well described both in terms of professional and attitudinal terms. So let us not cultivate that we might have arrived at it years ago too. If I may say so, it is because I have actually been the representative of the Danish Parliament in Nordic co-operation, even when we had something called the Nordic Disability Policy Council under the Nordic Council, which was based in Stockholm. Back then, we focused on accessibility for everyone, and when it was finished, I personally focused on what we called democracy for all. There we screened all parliaments in the Nordic countries for accessibility for people with disabilities. And when we look around the Chamber here, we can see that it is not very pretty. We have also recently had a Member in here who did not think that the Chamber was very accessible when sitting in a wheelchair. Fortunately, we have now also come so far that we will soon have to start making our own Parliament more accessible in terms of disability policy. So even if physical accessibility does not form part of the legislative work currently under way, we as politicians must not forget, I think that there is still inequality for people with disabilities in relation to health, but to a large extent also in relation to accessibility and, in particular, I think, inequality in relation to association life. Because when we do not set up our associations or our democracy in such a way that people with disabilities can participate, we still do not have full access, either mentally or practically. So we have some things to lift next to what we're doing now. But we, as Social Democrats, are very much looking forward to the legislative work ahead of us. We are also very pleased with the way in which the joint proposal for adoption has been made. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221162422	And so I would like to thank the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. In fact, it is the rapporteur on the Left, and that is Mr Beazley. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221162447	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question debate on a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities. I would also like to thank the Minister for the willingness of the government to start work on drafting a draft law on the introduction of a general ban. We stand here in 2017 and welcome something that one may wonder about is necessary. Some do so because in their arguments for this lack of discrimination they would like to refer to some UN conventions. I would like to point out that it is unacceptable to me that a child should be rejected in a private kindergarten because of diabetes. Some people do not believe that what we have agreed to has been achieved well enough. I would like to point out that it is unacceptable for a blind man to be rejected in a restaurant because he has a guide dog. It is still incomprehensible to me that this is necessary, but it is necessary, and it is in this light that, despite debates by various governments, we have not yet been here. But we are now, and I, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, would like to welcome that. Having said that, I think it is also important that, in addition to what is forward-looking, there is the reference to the building regulations in relation to new construction, which must be accessible to people with disabilities, we also try to look forwardly at what we can do in the wake of this, which is civil rather than labour market considerations, to see how we can think about civil society. The importance of association for people with disabilities to feel as part of a community must be promoted and encouraged in a way that ensures that social life and civil society, that is to say, being part of a community, promote the feeling and opportunities of being part of a labour market. To be honest, this is not what I am most proud of in Danish social policy • that over the last 20-25 years we have not seen an increase, but rather a stagnation in the number of people with disabilities who have been part of the working community. The value of being part of a working community applies to everyone, not just those on cash benefits. The value of having people with disabilities in the labour market applies to everyone, to us as citizens, to those who are workers and to those who are employers, because here we have a situation where we meet the diversity of the population. That's what we're gonna do. And with the proposal today and with the text which the Left also subscribes to, we will have a better framework for the meeting of the civilian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221162822	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. And then it is the rapporteur of the Enhedslisten, Mrs Pernille Skipper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221162838	Hello or thank you, it's called. Hey, hey, everybody. It's something weird. Well, this is also a good speech to make, and then you can start by laughing a little. I would like to start by thanking the Danish People's Party for raising the debate and thanking the government for implementing this ban on discrimination and all of you, because we can do so together and be united in adopting it. That is certainly something to celebrate, a step in the right direction. And one of the things that I think is important to mark is that people with disabilities are people with resources, abilities and a whole lot to contribute to the community. Everyone has something to offer, everyone has something positive to give, and this is about everyone having the chance to give it and the chance to be in it too. We live in 2017, and it is a bit crazy that there is still a need to point out that you are not deaf because you, for example, are deaf. sitting in a wheelchair or being able to go to a restaurant even if you have a physical disability, but unfortunately it is. People with disabilities experience being looked down on, experience being discriminated against both directly and indirectly. There have been many good people here on the platform who have come up with a lot of examples of this before me: how to be kept out of the community and kept away from the opportunities to live a decent life and to contribute that everyone else who does not have a disability has. And we're gonna go beyond that. Therefore, it is so insanely important that the government has agreed to change the legislation, so discrimination against people because of a disability is not only illegal in the labour market but also everywhere else in society. Denmark, as far as I know, is the last country in Scandinavia that does not have that ban. And it has been brought to the market after an important campaign by the Institute for Human Rights, so something is finally happening, and that is really, really good. We in the Enhedslisten want a society where everyone has access, and therefore our society must also be adapted to the fact that we are different. That is why we must ban discrimination everywhere, and that means that we must think about accessibility when building houses, when designing educational institutions, when designing social life, and when passing standards and values on to our children. Then we must also think that we all have to go. Therefore, I also have to point out that there are some places where this access and the opportunities that should be equal are going in the wrong direction. It is when support for people with disabilities deteriorates when it becomes more difficult to get a flex job and be part of the labour market when you cannot take your helper on holiday and it is therefore reserved for a few because you have to pay for it yourself or when it takes many months to get a disabled car. There are very, very many examples that the opportunities and space to participate in the community are narrowed for people with disabilities. And rights may not be worth much if you do not have such good opportunities to use them. Therefore, for us in the Enhedslisten, this is not just about having equal rights. This is an insanely important step, but it is also about having equal opportunities to exploit those rights, and that must be the next step. As a society, we must undertake to provide equal opportunities because it is most fair and because our community is missing out on resources when people with physical or mental disabilities do not have the same real chance of being with us because we all have something to contribute down. We are one of the richest societies in the world. We have money to be able to include everyone in our society much more than we do. We should have the heart and brain to understand that it is not only about charity, but also about rights and equal opportunities, and what is the smartest thing for the community. That is why I hope that the strong consensus in this House can continue, so that we can also help to provide a basis for people with disabilities not only having rights to be part of the community, but also having opportunities to exploit those rights. It's just as important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221163332	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance, and that's Mr. Simpson. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221163339	Subject to the fact that there is any possibility of graduation of an offence, I would say that discrimination is one of the most insulting things a person can encounter. There is some feature about your person, and you have no influence whatsoever on what this trait should have in terms of what you can and can do or what you cannot and cannot do, and that is, of course, completely cross-border and wrong. Fortunately, there are many people in this country who think so, and therefore, for many years, changing governments have also pursued a policy that has been designed to prevent discrimination in a wide variety of areas. As part of the fight against discrimination, Denmark ratified the UN Disability Convention in 2009 and in 2014 we acceded to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on Individual Access to the UN Disability Committee. In this way, discrimination against people with disabilities has been brought to bear in relation to public authorities and the labour market. Unfortunately, however, there has been a problem which has remained unresolved and that is discrimination against people with disabilities in civil society. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance very much welcome the fact that the Minister for Children and Social Affairs is now going to ban discrimination against people with disabilities throughout civil society and will make it possible to complain to the Equal Treatment Board about discrimination against people with disabilities. As I understand the position of the case, work is now under way to draw up a proper legislative proposal which can be submitted in the usual way to the Folketing. Of course, we very much welcome this and we look forward to discussing the fruits of the efforts of the Minister and the Ministry in the Chamber. But in the first place, of course, we look forward to voting in favour of the proposal for adoption together with all the other parties of the Folketing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221163550	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221163600	I would also like first of all to thank the Danish People's Party for addressing this important issue, namely discrimination because of disability, and also to thank the Minister for recognising the need for legislation in this area. Despite the fact that Denmark already ratified the UN Disability Convention in 2009, we in Denmark currently only have a ban on discrimination on grounds of disability in the labour market. This means that there is an opportunity to discriminate against people without objective reasons, simply because they have a disability. Denmark is the only country in Scandinavia that does not have a general ban on discrimination due to disability. The problem is also that we do not have one law, but rather several laws covering several different areas of society and grounds of discrimination, and we do not, as in, for example, we do. Sweden, Finland and Norway a ban on discrimination in the Constitution. When, for example, it doesn't work. As far as health care and education are concerned, there is only a spread of protection against discrimination, but not specifically because of disability. The fact that we only have legislation in relation to the labour market means, for example, that a person with disabilities can be denied serving in a restaurant or may be refused insurance. We have recently heard examples here, and we have also been able to read about the example of a blind man who was denied a visit to a restaurant with his wife because he was not allowed to bring his guide dog in. This is, of course, a major problem and, of course, it is totally unacceptable. Optimally speaking, our society should be designed so that people with disabilities can live a life like everyone else. Unfortunately, it is not yet, but in the alternative we believe that we must at least have the same conditions as in Sweden, Norway and Finland, and that there must be one single law that deals with discrimination against people with disabilities. I would recommend to the Minister that he look at the proposal of the Institute for Human Rights, which is a very good offer. It has been drawn up on the basis of inspiration from the Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish discrimination legislation, from the European Commission's proposals and from the UN Convention on Disability. We support the text of the adoption, and we also wish to emphasise that in Denmark, as I mentioned at the beginning, we have already ratified the UN Disability Convention in 2009, and that Denmark has therefore naturally committed itself to ensuring fundamental human rights for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221163855	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221163912	It's a really good day today. I think there are a lot of people who think and talk about that. At least we'll do it here. And that is why it is also a very fine example of how nine parties can agree on complicated matters as well. It may take time, but at some point it succeeds. I'd like to sign for that. It is good that the whole parliament can endorse what Mrs Karina Adsbøl said in her introduction here from Parliament's platform. Some of us have, after all, sometimes had meetings with the Institute for Human Rights to discuss how to make a possible law with a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities. And the Institute for Human Rights has had a delegation to the Social Affairs Committee and presented its proposal, which was generally supported. And that is a breakthrough because there have been features, one might say, in the discussions where the economic consequences of creating a law against discrimination against people with disabilities have not been taken into account. But that can be done in many ways, and that is one of the things that can be done. is expressed in the proposal prepared by the Institute for Human Rights. I can therefore reveal to the Minister, whom I would also like to sign up to in order to take up the matter, that we also have a good legislative proposal that we can stop what the Minister is going to do at some time when we are going to negotiate it. There should be some advice in this. It is historic, and it is sad that Denmark has not taken the step in full a long time ago, and I also find it a little embarrassing that we are the last of the Nordic countries to work on a legislative proposal of this nature. We know that it is bad to be discriminated against, and I think it's a terrible story... others have mentioned it with a 4-year-old boy who is diagnosed with diabetes and is told from his private kindergarten that he can't meet there anymore. After all, it is almost unbearable to think about what this child must experience in such a situation. And that says something about how terrible it is when you experience real discrimination. It is also strange that we live in a society like the Danish one, where building regulations are in order with accessibility requirements, when it comes to building new buildings and conversions etc., and that we can then be told that this is not always respected. But it must, and we must also look at how we can tighten up that particular relationship. Because when the legislation is actually there, one should also make sure that it can keep in the real world. We should also insist that all new general housing be made available so that there will be a greater opportunity for residential choice for people with disabilities. The trade unions can actually contribute to this. The Ministry of Culture has certainly done so both before I became Minister for Culture and while I was Minister for Culture. I haven't checked if you're still doing it away, but through media reconciliation and so on. After all, one has been hand in hand with the fact that Denmark's Radio and TV 2 have got better and better accessibility for their broadcasts. And it has actually been a success. And that makes me say that we also have to work for digital accessibility. Now the whole parliament is behind the support to legislate on the prohibition of discrimination against people with disabilities. That step must be genuine protection, so that the ban is parallel to the bans on discrimination on grounds of sex, ethnicity, race, religion or sexuality. And that's one of them. What we are also going to go for, I think, is all of us, namely that we have a parallelism in that area when it comes to people with disabilities. So thank you to those who have helped us to get as far as we are today. And thank you for the commitment of the government to take action and for the fact that nine parties enter into this constructively and with a common desire to carry out the task. Then I think we'll have a much better society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221164322	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221164330	Like so many other rapporteurs, I would like to welcome the meeting on the debate we have today on this and also thank the government for following up on it. First of all, of course, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate, which is both important and necessary. After all, in Denmark we have a general ban on discrimination which ensures that there is no discrimination based on sex and ethnicity. We regard this as a matter of course in a democratic state governed by the rule of law. However, the ban on discrimination has so far not applied to disability. With the current legislation, people with disabilities are only protected from discrimination in the labour market, and this is incomprehensible and an example of totally unfair inequality in our society. The equal treatment of people is essentially about us, as a society, recognising the diversity of people and the fact that everyone must be able to achieve the same opportunities in society, regardless of who you are, and whatever your life situation may be. It is a core value in our society and a fundamental idea for our social model, which I think we should safeguard a great deal. Therefore, it has of course also been problematic and challenging that we in Denmark have not had a general ban on discrimination in relation to people with disabilities not only for us as a society, but also very much for those who, in their lives and everyday lives, have met the discrimination and have experienced the consequences of it. This applies to the 4-year-old who was not welcome in a private kindergarten because of diabetes. This applies to the blind man who was denied access to a restaurant because he had a guide dog with him. This applies to the man with a mental illness who couldn't take out a life insurance policy. This applies to the mother with a brain injury who couldn't get written information from his son's school. This applies to a large number of other citizens with disabilities who have experienced discrimination in their daily lives. In all these cases, the lack of a ban has had a direct impact on the lives of people and without having had any opportunity to complain about it to the Equal Treatment Board. And in any case, I think there is reason to ask whether, as a society, we can look ourselves in the eye if nothing is done about it. In the SF, we have been raising questions for many years and following the debate in this area both in relation to discrimination against people with disabilities in the health sector, in relation to discrimination against the right of people with disabilities to take out insurance and in relation to the general prohibition of discrimination. Only in the spring of last year I asked the then minister what initiatives she and the government intended to take to counter UN criticism that Denmark does not have a ban on discrimination against people with disabilities. The government then replied that it was considering the options, which is why I can only one day, as today, welcome the fact that there will be a legislative proposal in this area. Against this background, of course, I am also extremely pleased to see the support there is. At the same time, this is an important step we are taking now in meeting the UN Disability Convention, which we have endorsed. The Minister is to be commended for this, and we can support it 100% in the SF. We shall start with that today, with the joint proposal for adoption, which we support. Is all discrimination removed by such a decision? No, it must be followed up, and we must do so together. Finally, I would also like to express my special thanks to the Institute for Human Rights for having qualified the debate with many examples and also with input into solutions that I think we should listen to. They have played an important role in the debate and in ensuring that something is done about it. So, with joint help, we will soon have a general ban on discrimination on grounds of disability.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221164739	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mr. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221164747	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that we are in 2017 and that one might wonder why we need to have this debate and that civil society cannot live up to what we saw as legislators. Discrimination in any form is unacceptable, whether based on gender, ethnicity or disability. In Denmark, everyone is equal before the law, and we also have a legal situation where general administrative law and principles of equality apply to public authorities. For many years in Denmark, we have had a ban on discrimination in the labour market. This means that there must be no direct or indirect discrimination in the labour market because of disability. Denmark ratified the UN Disability Convention in 2009 and therefore it was considered that it was not necessary for Denmark to introduce a general rule on the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of disability. Later, in 2014, Denmark acceded to the Optional Protocol to the Convention on Individual Appeals to the UN Disability Committee. Denmark thus marked the desire for a society of equal value, equal opportunities and equal participation, but despite all good intentions it has been shown that people with disabilities are discriminated against. They will be among other things. denied access to theatres, cinemas, discos, restaurants, etc. We simply note that there are areas where the protection of people with disabilities against discrimination is not good enough. As Conservative rapporteur, I am pleased that we have a bourgeois government that is prepared to decide to introduce a general ban on discrimination against people with disabilities outside the labour market. In future, it must be possible to appeal to the Equal Treatment Board in the event of infringement of the prohibition. The legal work is under way and it seems that we can find a solution that meets the disability organisations and, above all, the recommendation of the UN Disability Committee, which provides broad, detailed protection against discrimination, while at the same time ensuring that it is the same regulation as it applies to discrimination against people with disabilities in the labour market. The Conservative People's Party supports the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221165017	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs who will be able to speak again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221165028	Thank you. Several people know about the example of Jørgen, who is blind. If nothing else, there are at least several rapporteurs who have seen the cut from the Institute for Human Rights. Jørgen was at a restaurant with his guide dog and his family and was rejected by the restaurant. I spoke to a journalist at a time when I highlighted the example of Jørgen. The journalist then tells me: is it not okay, Maj, that if there is a blind man who cannot eat properly at a table with nice white tablecloths, then he is rejected? Why must my dinner be destroyed by the presence of the blind man? Try to replace the words blind man in that sentence with the word woman. We'll try that for a moment: isn't it okay, Maj, that if there's a woman sitting there who can't eat properly at a table with nice white tablecloths, then she's rejected? Why must my dinner be destroyed by the presence of the woman? Or we could insert the word Muslim or Christian or homosexual or a lot of other things, and then we would all see exactly how completely crazy it is that you can even ask that question. It only shows that a ban on discrimination against people with disabilities is important. A few of the comments that have been made today, I would like to say a few words along the way. Pernille Skipper said that everyone has something positive to give and that it cannot be true that you are being kept out of the community, because it is important that you become space. I fully agree with that. I thought it was really, really good and nice and fine said. Marianne Jelved said that in a future bill there must be real protection on an equal footing with protection against other forms of discrimination. I fully agree with that view. Karen J. Klint spoke very well about this with democracy for everyone and accessibility in our parliaments. Is our own Parliament actually available? I think it was some very good considerations that came up. Trine Torp said that experiencing discrimination is something that has a direct impact on people's lives, and that is absolutely right. That is why, when we hear these examples of citizens who are discriminated against and who are experiencing the closed door and who are not allowed to be part of the community, we must say that it is important. Trine Torp also said that a ban on discrimination is a matter of course in a democratic constitutional state and that it is incomprehensible that it does not apply to people with disabilities outside the labour market. I share that view as well. Finally, I would just like to highlight Karina Adsbøl, who made a really fine speech and who finally also said that we should applaud each other and that we should be glad that we have succeeded. I just have to say that I think I was too modest, because as we have also seen here in the course of the debate, there are a great many parties who have praised DF, and I think that is well deserved and rightly done. Thank you for all the comments. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for ensuring support for a proposal for adoption on which there is agreement here in the Danish Parliament. I really appreciate that as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221165358	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments. I would remind you, however, that the rule of indictment also applies to ministers, so that it is Mr. and Mrs, and not just the name of the indictment of people in the Chamber. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Karina Adsbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221165433	I am very sorry that the Minister gets a little scold or an indictment from the President, since she has been so excellent today. I would like to thank you for a very good debate, and thank you to the very good speakers who have been where everyone has addressed different elements. When it is one of the days when such a thing is succeeding in the Parliament, it makes it a real pride to be a politician, and it also makes you think about why you went into politics. Well, you did that because you wanted to change and improve things, and that's why we're politicians. Sometimes you get a little sad when you hear people talking about politicians like those who are not people and who are not interested, do not understand and do not have empathy, but such a day as today really shows that all the rapporteurs in this Chamber, who have stood on this platform, have great empathy for people with disabilities, can really understand their situation as to what it must be like to be discriminated against because of their disability, what it must be like to be rejected in a restaurant. I have a 10-year-old son of my own. He's deaf in one ear, so when people say to him, Philip, can't you hear? Then he says: No, actually, I can't, I'm deaf. He has also learned that if someone says something to him, he will answer back in relation to it. Some disabilities are also more visible than other disabilities, so you also have to remember the invisible disabilities. You can't always see them. However, I would like to thank you for a very good debate and thank all the rapporteurs and, above all, the Minister for action in this area. It is good that the Minister has taken the lead and action is actually taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221165622	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. The vote on the proposal which has been tabled in agreement will not take place until Thursday, 23 February 2016, so we must hope that the agreement will last for that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221165651	I would also point out here that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 23 February 2017. Then that is what we need a explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. So she's not here, but I hear she's on her way, and we're giving just the minutes it takes. So the meeting is suspended for a moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221165914	Then we'll resume the meeting. The Minister has been allowed to leave the Chamber but will be here in a moment. I would point out again that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 23 February 2017. We need to have the proposal justified, and I assume that we will nevertheless take a moment so that the Minister can hear the explanatory statement and thus answer the question. Yeah, and we will. Now we have assembly on the troops. So now, as Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, the rapporteur for the questioners, has arrived and the minister is going to his place, we say here to the rapporteur for the questioners to come to the floor. Yeah, here we go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221170016	Thank you. We have called this question to discuss the serious consequences that government policy has for children and vulnerable in our society. We have called the Minister for Children and Social Affairs because the people who belong to her area of responsibility are affected by the economic policy pursued by the government. The introduction of economic sanctions against people who do not have an earthly chance of acting against them because they are ill or disabled goes beyond a very large group of children, while at the same time pursuing a policy of austerity on public welfare, which has negative consequences for children and at risk. We are concerned and, frankly, the Minister for Children and Social Affairs should also be. She is the children and the ambassador of the vulnerable in the government, and that is why we would like the Minister to see the negative consequences that the policy pursued has on the very children and vulnerable groups for which she is Minister. The government has introduced a series of financial sanctions • a cash aid ceiling, a 225-hour rule • which aims to pressure those who are outside the labour market to find a job, based on a logic that if you push people on the economy, they will find a job. The problem with these sanctions is that they affect people who are far from always able to find work. The logic behind the system therefore does not stand. The chairman of the social workers says it very clearly and I quote: '...Therefore, the increase in poverty we see at the moment is landmark, and it is the absolutely greatest social problem today; it is a problem that the new Minister for Social Affairs and Child Affairs has to deal with...'. Because even if the causes of poverty lie in the Ministry of Employment, the consequences of this hit the heart of the Social Affairs Minister's area of responsibility, and that has consequences that will persecute us for generations if we do not intervene. We know that poverty has serious consequences, especially for children like deprivation, isolation, ill health, poor schooling, weaker starting points for education and more. It is an ancient and very well-founded knowledge which has just been the starting point for us in Denmark to be able to do much to eradicate poverty and to compensate for social problems. There is a very clear link between the two. We are aware that poverty and lack of social mobility cannot be isolated into the economy alone, but we also know that the economy plays an important role. Therefore, if people have social or health problems so great that they are not able to do a job, they will not solve those problems by pushing people into poverty. And the consequences for the children who are hit by a poor economy and may experience being thrown out of the family's home or experience that there is no afford for healthy food, for winter boots or for Mother's medicine are severe. If we want to hope to break the patterns not only to create pattern breakers, but actually to break the patterns, so that all children have equal opportunities to grow up and become part of the community rather than just create some single pattern breakers, then there has to be a completely different approach to it. Right now, the government's policy is creating more poor children. In October alone, 43 500 children were affected during the first month of the cash benefits ceiling. The ceiling on cash benefits, together with the integration allowance, will almost double the number of poor children in Denmark from 8,000 today to up to 15,000 children in the future. It is therefore 15 000 children who will be at risk of serious deprivation; who will have worse health in statistical terms; who will have a worse education and a lower chance of education and of becoming part of the community. It is children who are at risk of being marginalised and of becoming socially at risk as adults. We cannot yet see whether there have been more homeless people or more who have been evicted from their homes. So far it does not look as if it is, but those who work with the people it is about in everyday life are concerned, because the last thing you do not pay is the rent. First, it smokes healthy food, visits to family and friends, perhaps the necessary medicine, and naps me if there will not be any new figures and analyses in the near future, which unfortunately show that the number of postponements is increasing when the people pushed to the edge do not have any more strategies left to avoid the very last resort and do not pay the rent. I hope not. I really hope not. But I'm seriously worried about it. In any case, the social organisations also report increased activity. Even before Christmas, the Church's Cross Army told of extra bustle in the warm rooms and in the bedrooms of the country. On November 27, 2016, for the first time ever, the Church's Cross Army held a national gathering for poor Danes, which they explained as a direct consequence of the cash aid ceiling. Danish disability organisations tell that they have received several inquiries from disabled people who find it difficult to pay for their medications, even in spite of the approaches which, among other things, include: at our request was made for people with disabilities who ensured that they were not hit so hard by government reforms anyway. The second part of government policy is that public growth must not exceed 0.3%. It can easily be very technical, but public growth of 0.3 per cent. really means great savings for our welfare, because with a growth rate of 0.3 per cent. The fact that more children are growing older, more people in need of help and technology or not will have major and serious consequences for, among others, demographic development does not correspond at all to demographic development. the children exposed for whom the Minister is to be ambassador. Towards 2025 there will be almost 59,000 more children between 0 and 5 years of age • 59,000 more children. It goes without saying that it will require more educators if the level is to match today, in fact up to 10,000 more educators if the level is to match today. It's only if we match the level of today. It's not even if we're talking about doing things better. The bourgeois governments have not only introduced low services, but they have also cut down on the public service, which has to pick people up, and compared to 2009, for example. 4,000 fewer educators today for the same number of children. This affects especially those places where there are children with additional needs for support, and it is typical in the economically most disadvantaged municipalities where the most vulnerable children and worst standards are found. Of course, this is going to be on top of each other and on top of each other and hitting the same groups. We have just set aside 1/4 billion in this year's rate pool. kr. to a social investment fund because we know it pays off. Both human and financial, it pays to invest in prevention, to intervene early with methods and tools that we know work. And good day offers are one of the things we know have the greatest effect. Poverty is something we know has long-term negative effects. A study by the SFI shows that children who grow up in families that have experienced poverty only one year, with a significant probability, will face social challenges later in their lives. Those are wild numbers. It can, for example, be done. be lower education, increased unemployment or higher risk of reaching early retirement. This is, of course, compared to children who grow up in families that never experience poverty. The ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the erosion of public growth and fewer public employees are helping to destroy the efforts and good actions we are undertaking. The economic policy of the government has serious consequences, and this means that we will never break the pattern that means that social mobility is still far too poor in Denmark and that it is almost given in advance who will live a life on the edge and who will never be a part of the community. Social democracy listens to all those who work with children and vulnerable people when they warn in these days, especially when they warn as strongly as they do. We also think that the Minister should take this step if she wants to take seriously her responsibility as the minister of the children and the socially vulnerable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221170831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now I allowed the rapporteur to speak further, even though the speaking time was very much exceeded. In a question, the question is justified, and then the Minister answers, and then the rapporteur gets the floor in the rapporteur's line, where the adoption should be read. However, I think it would be a little premature to stop the rapporteur, which is why I assume that we have now struck the explanatory statement and the rapporteur's speech together. I would like to propose that the Minister be allowed to reply, and then the proposal will be adopted afterwards, and that is all the rapporteur will have the floor for after the Minister. Okay? Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen Yes). Okay, thanks. Then it is the minister for reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221170920	It's a very strict chairman, sir. Fourth Vice-President A very friendly President. A very kind sir. Thank you for the question and also the presentation and indeed also the speech. I have been asked to explain the social consequences of government policy, including the ceiling on cash benefits, 225-hour rule and 0.3% growth. in the public sector. First of all, it is difficult to give a satisfactory account of the impact of a policy before it has worked for some time, but we really have some well-founded assumptions about its impact and we have intentions and we also have objectives that we want to achieve, and that is why I will try anyway. The government's 10 objectives for social mobility are precisely the social consequences of policies and interventions, and we are closely following up the objectives so that there will be ample opportunity to observe and debate social consequences in the coming years. And for the question debate here I will do my best to explain the intended social consequences of government policy, and I would like to talk in particular about two things: responsibility and community. It is at the heart of government policy that more must be part of the community. More people must be lifted out of public support and into employment. Too many children and young people do not get a proper starting point that allows them to reach as far as possible in life and become part of the community, and for many people with disabilities or mental difficulties is on the edge of the employment community. Broadly speaking, our cohesion depends on our community. In the process, we must have an eye on the voluntary forces that are of great value and can form the basis for a wider community, and, above all, we actually need to find solutions to our challenges together, because none of us can do so alone. My approach as Minister for Children and Social Affairs is to open up communities more, to have a look at the whole and to understand the community broadly, because there are many communities in society. There are the training courses, there are the jobs, there are the family, the sports club, the voluntary associations, and there are also the churches. Especially for socially vulnerable people, there is a need to work to ensure that more people are part of society's communities, and for some it will pave the way for education and jobs, while for others it is not possible even with the best help and support to become self-supporting. But everyone can become a part of society's many communities and gain greater quality of life as a result of an effective social policy. That is the aim of government policy. One intention of job reform is to make it more attractive to work in relation to receiving public support. One consequence is that some people get a lower amount of available money than otherwise, and I should like to recognise that as a matter of fact can present challenges in some families. The aim is therefore also that people affected by the ceiling on cash benefits should only be temporarily affected and that cash benefits should only be a short-term benefit, because the aim is that more people should become part of the working community. But there are people who have so much social problems that it prevents them from working. The task of social policy is to develop and disseminate social solutions that make a real difference and bring them closer to work, education or another community of society, and this requires more knowledge on how to solve the social problems that hinder some people from participating. We can achieve a great deal when we succeed in establishing coherence between employment and social policy. One example is the "Social support" initiative in the transition to and retention of jobs. Nearly 40 million have been set aside over the next four years. kr. to the initiative, which will test holistic efforts across the social and employment field, so that more vulnerable citizens can enter ordinary jobs and also in the longer term retain the job. The approach here, which mainly works from a global perspective, is the way forward, and I believe that it will make a difference in the long run. Social policy can contribute to more people getting into employment, but I would like to stress that it is absolutely the other way forward: employment can help to reduce social problems and, as part of a social effort, education and employment can thus encourage positive change, better well-being and mental health for people. We are also abandoning children if parents are excluded from the working community, for example. If it is not worthwhile for Mom and Dad to work and as a society, we must provide parents with the best basis for taking responsibility and taking care of themselves and thereby becoming good role models for their children. Of course, it affects me when children live a daily life where money only goes to what is strictly necessary, but we do not solve challenges such as deprivation and negative social inheritance by providing higher benefits, and I would actually go so far as to say that it is irresponsible with such a narrow focus. The level of benefits in the transfer system is not the most important factor in the ability of children to exploit their potential and break negative social heritage. Lack of resources can be a low level of education, a lack of links with the labour market, poor health, a limited network and, indeed, low income. But the low income is, after all, a consequence of the low level of education, the lack of links with the labour market and the poor health, not the other way around. Instead, we need to focus on lasting solutions that solve the causes of low income and that are based on proven impact. It is at the heart of the government that all children and young people should have a good starting point in life; they should not be lost because of a lack of professional qualifications, but not because of a weak social background. Therefore, it is essential that we ensure a good framework for the family as an institution in society, so that we can help the children well on their way in life. And if we are to help children, we must also help parents and provide them with the best possible framework for them to be part of the working community and to fulfil their parental role responsibly. Regardless of the percentage of growth in the public sector, we spend a lot of money in the social field. The municipalities use approx. 45 billion kr. per year on social stakes. The stakes I believe make a difference, but I also believe that we must strive for more and better results. The government wants to support the municipalities in reshaping the social effort so that it is based more on knowledge of what works and becomes more effective. And many tools in this work have already been rolled out and more will come in the coming years. It is also something that concerns the rapporteur, in other words the social rapporteurs, among others. also in the bet pool circle, where we focus on the more knowledge-based efforts and that we can measure the impact of the bets. The government is pursuing the ten objectives of social mobility which, in other words, set a direction for where social policy is going and what we are going to succeed with. And here are the headlines that more must be part of the working community and fewer must be socially vulnerable. This must lead to a development in which we do more of what works, and this is my basic starting point for the concrete initiatives we must take in the social field for children as well as for adults. And here I have even, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, said it just before • high hopes for the big investment programmes of the rate pool for vulnerable children, young people and adults. There should be no doubt that there is great potential for improving social protection both in preventing and remedying social problems, but also in promoting opportunities for education and employment where possible. And we will not solve this with higher economic benefits or an adjustment in the promile of growth in the public sector. It takes a long and sustained focus to engage with the efforts that work and many tasks await in the coming years. And here I can only mention a selection of them: more people must get out of homelessness and abuse; vulnerable children and young people can and must do better in school and in education; our daily services must be lifted and institutions must be better at breaking the negative social heritage. We know that the skills created early in life are of great importance for the further development of children. Therefore, it is also important to me that we support that children find a stable foothold where they thrive, learn and develop in the early communities, so that they do not fall outside of life's later communities. Today, Danish daily offers are not good enough to break the negative social heritage, although we know that it is a good investment in the children to make an early start. And that is why the government will strengthen the quality of the daily offers, among others. focusing on learning and well-being for all children and also on reducing the negative social heritage. In addition, we must offer children good and stimulating learning environments in day offers. We know from research that early action can make a major difference to children who are socially at risk. Almost all children in Denmark are offered daily, and therefore the importance of daily offers is difficult to overestimate. The Finance Act sets aside 580 million. kr. to improve the quality of the daily offers. And I look forward to presenting an initiative during the spring, which puts a sharp focus on how we can enhance the quality of daily offers, including for socially vulnerable children. The government has a goal that fewer people should be homeless, but it is important to bear in mind that for the vast majority of people, homelessness is about more and more than without housing. Four out of five homeless people have either an abuse, a mental illness, or both... four out of five homeless people. That is why it is primarily active social efforts to help the homeless to have a more secure and stable life. We have a strong foundation on which to build, but at the same time we can also improve the efforts of the homeless, because there are target groups who are not getting sufficient help and support from existing interventions today, and we also do not know enough about how to prevent homelessness. So we can and must do better, and this autumn I will present an action plan for fewer homeless people. In the coming months, therefore, I will focus on talking to the actors in this area and consulting citizens and employees about what we can do better. The government, however, initiates a number of initiatives, including: will support the fight against homelessness, the work to ensure that more cheap housing is provided, and the government's proposal to introduce a social card that increases the tax-free income of the most vulnerable citizens, for example, it may be homeless. The government also has ambitions in the area of drug abuse, and therefore another of the government's social objectives is that the effects of drug abuse treatment should be improved. This requires us to work with targeted treatment methods, which we know to work with, as we know to have a positive effect. And there is not necessarily a direct link between how many resources the municipalities spend in this area and the effect of the abuse treatment. Thus, it does not have to be the most expensive treatment methods that have the greatest effect. Therefore, the government wants to ensure that the municipalities are given better tools so that they can deliver more effective and effective treatment than they are now. The government will also examine the possibility of shortening the treatment guarantee so that people with abuse can be treated more quickly when the motivation is greatest. For this reason, the Ministry of Health and the Elderly, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs will, as soon as possible, launch a coordinated and joint study of the possibilities of shortening the treatment guarantee in the medical and social treatment of drug abuse as well as treatment in prisons. The treatment guarantee is currently 14 days after the citizen has approached the municipality. Then I have one more word about responsibility. We have a responsibility to ensure that our political work helps people to have a better and more dignified life. We have a responsibility to ensure that our communities are characterised by empathy and inclusiveness in education and jobs, in associations and in families. Previous generations have worked hard to create the good society that all of us who live today enjoy. My goal is to deliver an even better society to our children and grandchildren. We must therefore look at the lasting solutions that will last in 10 and 20 years • the solutions that will allow us to leave a larger community with more included for the next generation. That is our responsibility, and it is the intended social consequences and government policy. Thank you for the floor. And I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172107	Thank you, Minister. Then we have a proposal for adoption for the benefit of us. There are no questions for the Minister now, there will be a chance later. Then it is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen who is presenting the proposal for adoption, and then it is also the case that it should have been the rapporteur's contribution now, so that questions can be put to the rapporteur now, but then they are pressed in. Here you go for the presentation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172136	Thank you. I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the reform of cash benefits has significant negative consequences for vulnerable groups and their children. The Danish Parliament also notes that public growth of 0.3%. It is not possible to respond to demographic developments and, at the same time, to stem the negative consequences of the policies pursued for vulnerable groups in our society, including vulnerable children. The Danish Parliament notes with concern that the cash benefits reform and low public growth combined have the consequence that more people are socially exposed, that inequality is increasing and that fewer people are given the opportunity to break negative social patterns. The Danish Parliament stresses that all children and people must have equal opportunities. Against this background, the Folketing calls on the government to pursue a policy that actively counteracts the trend towards increased inequality and vulnerability. • V 41).
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172235	Thank you. The proposal will then be included in the further negotiations. There are a number of questions for the rapporteur, and the first is from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172247	Thank you. If the Social Democratic Party were to regain the Prime Minister's position, is it intended to roll back the ceiling of cash aid and remove the 225-hour rule and create higher public growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172303	Thank you for the question. It is clear that when I stand here today talking about the problems of precisely the political measures, and my party and I, when it was adopted, voted very strongly against, it is a clear indication of where we stand. The last time we won the government, that was exactly what we did. We've been through this, unfortunately, once before, when the government introduced some poverty benefits that turned out not to work, and when we got there, we abolished them, so I very much hope that we will have money for that. But when I answer so little guarantee, it is really because I would like to see what kind of economy we are taking over at the time, which unfortunately none of us know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172352	But it would just be nice to have a clear answer to it, because it is, of course, the social democracy's prerequisite for calling it here, and if that is not what you want to roll back, then it is more constructive to have a debate about what it is that we should do instead, and then you could perhaps meet there instead of standing in separate camps and arguing about exactly the cash aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172412	I don't know if I think we're in separate camps fighting. We are presenting some issues that we can see right now, which are of great concern to us, about growing inequality for a large group of children who are unfortunately going to be on the edge of our society, and this has some long-lasting consequences. I think we should take this seriously. Whether you want to call it a cash aid ceiling or a 225-hour rule or whatever you want, I think we owe it to you to take this seriously. I hope, then, that the parties who voted for these things can also see the problems and may re-evaluate their positions. I would think that we got a more equal and fair Denmark out of that, and that we gave children a more fair chance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172455	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172456	Thank you. I simply agree with everything that Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen has said from the platform at this time, and I very much agree with the fact that the special cash aid reform, which has an inherently special logic in it, is that when you become poor, you get work and low public growth is really harmful. We must counteract the consequences of inequality and poverty. But I just have to ask whether this means that you have then realised what the reforms you introduced when you sat in government have had consequences. Is that how we're supposed to understand this? If you just with my poor memory and I actually have a fairly poor memory check the list, you can see that you did away with the poverty benefits for some, but you also introduced the youth benefit, which means that thousands of young people have now ended up in homelessness; that is because of the benefit introduced by the Social Democratic Government. You did an early retirement and flexible job reform based on the foundation that people could recover or, to a lesser extent, have a disability if you took the money from them and which is one of the reasons why this government's cash aid reform hits so hard. There was a tax reform that redistributed from the bottom to the top, and then there was extremely low public growth that did not follow demographic developments. Will the overall picture be different next time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172634	Thank you. I have the very clear principle that we must never stop making demands on people and that we must also very much use economic sanctions to make them move. I think so, among other things. We did with the youth benefit where we said to young people who were ready to go into education or get into work and who had no problems but to be unemployed and to be on cash assistance: Why do you need twice as much as your peer who is at SU? That is a misguided economic incentive. The reason I believe very much in that part of it is that those people were assessed to be able to move. I think there is a very big difference between whether you are using financial incentives for a group that is able to move, and whether you are doing so to this group, of which a real, very large part, for example. is sick as the government hits with these actions. Our whole idea was to split people up and say, "If you are ill, you need extra help, then you need resources, we'll put in extra, and we'll get you somewhere where you can eventually become part of a working community again." And we pay that with what we save on those people who have no problems other than unemployment and who have to go out and find a job or start training. I very much believe in that approach to employment policy, because that is where I fully share the Minister's idea that having a job and being able to support oneself means an immense amount, including for one's children, also for what is inherited. But believing that you can move just because you are made poorer, if you have a sea of problems other than unemployment, I do not buy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172817	The people who are on cash benefits right now, many of whom are ill or have a disability, are there because of the early retirement and flexible job reform introduced by the Social Democratic Party, which was based on the thesis that if you pushed people on the wallet, they could move. The youth benefit is based on the thesis that if you consider that someone can move, it's probably just a question of pushing them on the wallet, and then they do. Experience has shown, and all the social organisations to which I believe Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen herself referred just now say that this is not what has happened. Thousands of young people have ended up in homelessness because of that youth allowance. That's what they say. 1:1 is what's happening. Should I understand the call for this question debate and the excellent speech made by Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen just now, so that it is only for the future and that there is no recognition that under the Socialist Government there were 11 000 fewer public employees, that inequality increased, that public growth was low and that numerous reforms were introduced that tried to get people to perform by pressing them on the wallet? Is there no recognition of this at all by the Social Democratic Party today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172940	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221172942	Enhedslisten asks about very, very many different elements, and I have very little time to reply so that I can reply with regard to the principles. I think that the principles behind youth benefits are absolutely right; I think that the principles in relation, for example, to young people are perfectly correct. to provide resources, which may well be 5 years of treatment, where, moreover, the person is not pressured further in any area, is right. The fact that there are cases where it is implemented completely contrary to what we were actually sitting and voting on is a problem, I think, and we should learn a great deal from that. However, I fully agree with the principles behind this. In relation to whether I hope that next time we will have higher public growth, the answer is yes, because we are much further away from the financial crisis now than we were then.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173026	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173033	I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he can explain to me what the difference is between the economic incentives to which the rapporteur refers and which are the reason why, when the government of the Social Democratic Party was in power, young people were made, that is to say, the argument, and the humanity of the 225-hour rule, which is to try to get those people who can make an effort in the working community to be tested and to be as self-sufficient as possible. What is the difference? It is said against being ugly with one, while the other is about clarification and humanity, but I do not understand the difference between the youth benefit versus the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173124	What is absolutely crucial to me is that you do not make anyone poor and believe that they are thereby moving to work if they are not able to take a job, and therefore I think that the grip on the youth benefit was absolutely right in the sense that we split the group into two and said: All of you who can, you must. The money we saved on it by getting the SU-like rate, we then spent investing in all those who couldn't yet, but as we had a dream and a hope of being able to move somewhere where they could, too, at some point. I think that there is a very big difference between using economic incentives for people who can move and people who cannot move, and I think that the government is hitting people who are simply not able to move, and the only result I can see from that is poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173214	There is no evidence to support your claim that the youth benefit would have created greater mobility than the 225-hour rule. The approach is to want someone in a working community, and there must also be an economic incentive to work together. Of course, there must also be health for it, but I just think it is hypocritical, it is perhaps too big a word, but I do not think it is clear to me what one uses as an argument for, when one has the power of government, to introduce something while thundering against something else when one is in opposition. And then there was a growth in the public sector of less than 0.3%. under the former Social Democratic Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173256	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173258	Thank you. For me, it just makes a difference whether you just spread it out with a broad brush and say we hit everyone, or whether you target them specifically, as the individual social worker out in the municipalities estimates is able to go into education and work. For me, it's just the crucial thing, because I don't believe in economic whip for people who are unable to move. You only dig the ditches deeper with that approach, which is why it is the guiding principles, both when I discuss employment policy and social policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173333	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173334	Thank you. Last week, S voted against a resolution to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. When you hear the rapporteur's speech today about how terrible this is and what misery it creates in Denmark, that we now still have the world's highest level of cash benefits, too, when you correct for purchasing power, but not quite as high as it was before, it is amazing that the Social Democratic Party cannot find 500 million. kr. to abolish it. It will not be clear: of course we will abolish it once again when we have the power of government. This is an expression of the fact that this is really about creating a political stir and debate on a matter and, if you do not want to say that you want to finance its abolition, then it is getting closer to hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173438	Well, sir has. Joachim B. Olsen has the right to believe, and you also have the right to call me a hypocrite. I totally disagree. All the experience shows we're rolling back your poverty benefits. Let me know if it doesn't happen again. But when I'm not going to stand and promise Amager necklace to every Dane in the living rooms who's watching, it's because we don't know what you're going to do about the economy in the meantime, and then it's because we don't know how much money is going to be in the box.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173510	The rapporteur knows very well that once the Social Democratic Party takes over the government power, and they do so once again there will be 500 million. kr. to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. The rapporteur knows that and the rapporteur is lying if the rapporteur claims otherwise. So you have to expect a clear answer from the Social Democratic Party: will you abolish the ceiling on cash benefits when you come into the government yourself? the ceiling on cash benefits which you must understand is absolutely terrible? Because there's 500 million. kr. to do it • it's rockproof.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173548	This is a good debate, but we still have some rules for the use of words like hypocrite, lying and that kind of thing, so you just have to find out the good tone. And then there is something about speaking time. Now it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173600	Thank you. So I'm both a liar and a hypocrite, you've heard it on such a good Tuesday afternoon. I have a bit of a head shake over how violent the rapporteur is just swinging up into the lianes. I mean, I really think you should be careful with the words. I stand here humbly saying that I am very concerned about children growing up in poverty. I think we should be extremely careful in these matters. And I very much hope that we will get to very soon and that there will be money to fix this, which unfortunately you have messed up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173640	Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173642	Thank you. I could not imagine using the same words as the previous rapporteur when I ask here, so I will ask in a slightly more friendly way. I understand that the Social Democratic Party will not commit itself to making a promise to roll back the ceiling on cash aid. I get it. I don't agree, but I get it. However, in order to understand it better and understand why, I would like to ask a little bit about the argument that it is said that it is because the Socialists do not know what the economy will look like in a few years' time. We are in a situation where there is a rise. There are good times in Denmark, there is an increase in employment, we are fighting to get the last people into the labour market. Looks like it's going to go up pretty nicely. What is it that the rapporteur imagines falling from the sky so that we cannot afford the half billion we need to roll back that ceiling? Just today we negotiated a job prize at 800 million. kr. We could've almost rolled it back twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173750	Well, I hope there's no rolling down either, but when we have an American president who wants to deregulate the banks, and a Danish minister who wants to deregulate the banks, I dare not predict whether we have control of the financial markets and whether everything can fall back. I don't believe that. I believe that together we will form a majority in the near future, where we will deal with this problem and I shall be delighted about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173814	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173816	[Sound emission]... which also escapes the rapporteur's very, very fine speech. The last question I would like to ask is about the processes of resources. Do we have any place in society where the most vulnerable brands are the consequences of the various reforms on the resource processes, where very many Danes, sick Danes are almost parked indefinitely in job tests and endless efforts? Those resources are, after all, part of the early retirement and flexible job reform that the rapporteur's party is involved in. Now, when there are evaluations, consider taking the consequence of such a query debate as this one and reducing the negative...
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173902	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173904	The rapporteur and I have talked about this several times. We share the concerns about whether this is being used so that people end up in an unfortunate situation instead of being helped further. I believe in the intentions of it, but I share the concern about whether it all looks like what we politically intended to do, and it is clear that we are therefore also very interested in having it evaluated and looked at in the seams, so that we ensure that those intentions actually become reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173933	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Pernille Bendixen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221173945	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the authors for calling this question debate. In fact, I think it is a really important area and I think it is a little too bad if we are to discuss again today whether the ceiling for cash aid is the most evil thing in the world. I think we should choose a more solution-oriented approach and look at what we really can do for those people who are naturally affected by this. That's why I've also chosen to take a slightly different entrance to it. Firstly, I think it is important to make it clear that the efforts made in the municipalities must be varied and flexible, because being socially exposed spans such a wide spectrum. So you can't just say there's one solution. That is why I think we can at least say from here that we want to help the municipalities become more targeted, in terms of what kind of people they need, what kind of services they need and what kind of help we can give them. We have to be honest and say that people who are sick should not be on cash benefits. That's the way it is. But they are anyway. Instead of arguing about it, I think we need to find out what it is we are doing to get them away from the cash benefits and into the right benefits. That's one thing. Secondly, I think we need to have a talk about what it is to be socially exposed. I think there is one thing that is completely lacking in this debate, and that is such a concept as stress and stress for children. There are families who are totally stressed because they have to do their job. There are families who are totally stressed because they have no work and would like to find a job. And in the middle of this, the children are getting all stressed out either because they are in day care 48 hours a week and never have time with their parents, or because of the stressful effect of the parents on the children. So I think that's part of this picture too, so it's not just about the economy and what kind of things you have the opportunity to buy at home and when you're poor and when you're not. I think we can make a difference if we can find common ground and find out what solutions we are going to give out there. In fact, I also choose to welcome a small thing that is on the way, which is the new teaching plans. It may be a small thing; it may also be, it may be a little out of place in this debate, but for a stressed child out in a daycare centre who gets to play free play completely on his own terms, it just makes a difference. So I think that we should also bear in mind the big picture. That's why it's really just what I'd like to do, too. So I have brought a small text here, a proposal for adoption on behalf of the government and the Danish People's Party, and I should read it now, right? Yes. Proposals for adoption • There is broad political agreement that more should be part of the community. But the communities must be opened up more with a view to the whole and the breadth. Parliament calls on the government to ensure consistency between employment policy and social policy. The Folketing urges the government to support that municipalities can make an effective social effort that makes a real difference to children and social groups affected, for example, by homelessness or abuse. There is a desire to strengthen day-to-day offers in order to give them better opportunities for, among other things: to break with negative social heritage. Parliament therefore calls on the government to strengthen the quality of daily offers, including: focusing on learning and well-being for all children and preventing negative social heritage. However, it is not the daily offers alone that have to break with negative social heritage. It is the whole family, and thus also the parents' responsibility. In some cases, social assistance will also be relevant to the family. • V 42).
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174350	Thank you. This will now be part of the further debate. There are just a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174357	Thank you. This is not because we did not have a discussion on this cash aid reform in the Parliament before. We do. We have had some very, very long discussions about what the consequences are for families with children in particular, when they are hit by a ceiling such as this, which means that the funds in a home will simply be reduced. Some of the things we know people save when they have less money between their hands.I would call it poor, but I doubt whether the Danish People's Party will it be the necessary medicine, insurance, savings for the dentist or to buy a new stove if it breaks, the children's participation in children's birthdays and camping schools. The Danish People's Party speaks here very well about how stress and concerns are something that we must overcome and how socially vulnerable should be part of the communities. Does the Danish People's Party recognise the research that shows that it is precisely exclusion from communities and stress and concerns that will be the consequence when you have much, much less money between your hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174523	Thank you. Of course there is a consequence; that is clear. The more money you have, the more you have to spend and the fewer you have, the less you have to spend. I'd really like to have a talk about this whole community thing. There are many kinds of communities, and I know from the municipality in which I myself am, and also from other municipalities, that they are doing a great deal to follow up those who may not be able to participate in the communities that can be in the field of leisure. So a lot of things are being done. So, of course, we recognize it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174551	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174553	That is absolutely right. This is becoming even more necessary when there is a cash aid reform that hits the way it does. One of the consequences of children's organisations is that children cannot participate in camp schools or football, cannot go down to the pizzeria after school and be part of the gang and talk about what is happening. It means you get lonely, you get excluded from the community. Does the Danish People's Party recognise that this is a consequence of poverty? The rapporteur speaks very well about participating in communities, etc. The rapporteur recognizes that concerns such as: where the money is to come from is the result of the cash aid reform that the Danish People's Party has voted for?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174638	That's part of it. But I do not want to stand here and say that the reform of the social security system is responsible for all the poverty in Denmark and that all children cannot be in a leisure club, because that is simply not right. It is also about priorities. It is about how to give priority to the resources available. I'm aware that this is a difficult exercise. Of course, it can be difficult for some. So it's both and...
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174703	Then it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174705	Thank you. Now that we see for the first time ever that the Church's Cross Army is gathering in to poor Danes, and at the same time we have figures showing that we are close to doubling the number of poor children in Denmark in the light of the changes that have taken place here, what is the rapporteur's position today? Among other things were: The introduction of this ceiling on cash benefits is the right thing to do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174735	We chose to introduce it, and we did so because we believe it is the right thing to do. I would also like to say that the funds available are within the scope of what is said to be the minimum budget. I think that's what they call it. So you have to assume that's true.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174754	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174757	So the rapporteur has no reservations at all when she knows that we may double the number of poor children and that for the first time, the organisations collect for poor Danes? These consequences do not impress the rapporteur at all? The rapporteur mentioned this before the elections, and now we see the consequences after the elections. But the rapporteur is not shaking his hand at all. This is still right, isn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174825	Of course, that is still true, otherwise we would not stand for it. So I think it is very one-eyed to say that the only thing it is about when you are poor is money. For example, I think you are poor when, as a parent, you choose to take a holiday without your children and deliver them three weeks in day care. I think that's poor. Then we can have a talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174845	Then it's Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174847	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said that poverty is not just about money. In fact, when you look at what these actions have had to do with the consequences for some vulnerable citizens, it turns out that Danske Handicaporganisations say that for example. Many disabled people, who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, find it difficult to pay for the medicine. So the number of crowns you have to do well with and buy medicine for means something. Is that something that impresses the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174925	Of course it makes an impression. I would also like to say that I am not the rapporteur in this area, so I do not have the deeper insight into how it affects people with disabilities. I have come up here to talk about what we can do for the socially vulnerable, not to have a debate on the reform of cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174940	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221174942	But it hits a wide range of people. It affects the disabled, it affects children, it affects single mothers, it affects families. I would really like to know if it makes an impression on the rapporteur when there are so many organisations that collect for the poor in Denmark. There are some collections that have taken place last November. The Church's Cross Army is one of those who has gathered in. They collect under e.g. the heading of poor children. Does the rapporteur impress that this has implications for citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175022	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175022-2	It always makes an impression when there are some out there in civil society who do something for others, no matter what it is about. I would also like to say that there are others who have sought Christmas help, and then you will hear that they are selling it further. So I also think we should have a slightly broader look at it instead of that one-eyed focus on the cash benefits reform. I actually thought we were meeting today to talk about common solutions. But then I hear we don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175047	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so we move on to Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175103	Thank you to the Social Democratic Party for their request to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs to explain the social consequences for children and vulnerable groups of government policy, including the importance of the ceiling on cash benefits. I think it is a little early to draw such firm conclusions as to what can be attributed to the previous government and the policy of the current government and what significance it will have. Because we are constantly talking about the initiatives that have been put in place to bring more people into the working community, as something that has no effect on what is meant by it, namely to get people from passive support into the working community. Thank you for the questioner's good, long, thorough speech. I had a feeling that we are making social policy a question of putting people in some boxes, some statistics instead of, as I think we should do more, viewing socially vulnerable as what they are: individual people with individual needs, who need to have individually adapted solutions, and the solution is not always a question of several crowns and ears. The challenge may be to get those actors in the public sector who are relevant in working with the socially disadvantaged to play better together. Those who work with abuse treatment and alcohol rehabilitation, municipalities and regions in good interaction with housing companies and others are such players who have to play together in order to make the necessary integrated efforts for the homeless. In relation to the part of the question which concerns growth in the public sector, I am rather annoyed when it is linked to the questioner's speech that social policy becomes a question of who can give the most. The more money you give to the socially vulnerable, the better social policy is. I don't think that's the way forward. I believe that there have been examples, year and day, that in misunderstood goodness and probably also across parties and divisions and changing governments, we have had the approach that social policy is a matter of having a good conscience, giving them some money, being passive, but then at least we have a good conscience. Good social policy is not, I think, money from the state, the public sector and is asking people to take care of themselves. Whether you are disabled, socially exposed, or what I know, self-help is the way forward. It is not necessarily a matter of crowns and ears. But there are some who, whether we speak young people's benefits or we speak cash benefits, have not been sufficiently encouraged to go from passive support to the working community. That is the purpose of the ceiling on cash benefits. Are there any who are misplaced in that they should have had a different service? That's what you're looking at. That is why we have broadly drawn up a wage-pool agreement which should just look at whether one should have been on another benefit, but the principle, whether it be youth benefits or the ceiling on cash benefits, that one should be encouraged to move from passive to active support, I think is right. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175558	There is a brief comment on Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175601	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the primary purpose of the ceiling on cash benefits is to get people to work. The Minister for Finance, who is from the rapporteur's own party, said recently that it was not the primary purpose of the Finance Committee, but rather that people should not have so much money. Can the rapporteur clarify whether you disagree or whether there is something I have misunderstood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175628	I have not attended that consultation and do not know the context in which the Minister for Finance has expressed himself. For my part, I can say that the purpose of the ceiling on cash benefits is that work should be worthwhile.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175643	But can we not just get it straight that you did this once, and the last time it was subsequently documented that it had not got people into work. What makes the rapporteur think it works this time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175657	I think that's a claim that you can have different approaches to. What happened after the introduction of the ceiling for cash benefits under a previous civil government, and after its subsequent abolition, was that the number of not least cash benefits couples increased very dramatically. For me, it is an expression of the fact that it was just thought that it is not a question of being able to pay for working.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175728	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221175749	I think it is very important that we have this debate today, which the Social Democrats have called for. There are major consequences of the two very general points raised in the question text, namely the question of the consequences of poverty and the question of the consequences of very low public growth, which does not, of course, correspond to demographic development. That means that we are becoming more and more people, but there is no corresponding amount of money, and that means that, relatively speaking, the public sector is getting smaller. The consequences of poverty, if you are to start there, are great. Children's upbringing and opportunities in the future to get a job and get an education have a lot to do with money • It shows all research • For money can be a social access ticket for leisure activities and everything else. But such basic necessities as medicine and insurance are also part of what we know smokes when people live in poverty. At the same time, it matters that children grow up with constant concerns about parents' finances, because then they have their focus there instead of focusing on living healthy children's lives, going to school and being good at it. Other vulnerable groups than children are also hit hard. They are people who are homeless and socially at risk; they are people with mental problems or abuse, or both, of which there are so many; they are veterans who have gone to war because the Danish politicians have decided and who have come home with ptsd; they are refugees who have fled from some of the most terrible terrorist organisations in the world. It is all people who are also affected by this cash aid reform that is at the heart of today's debate. There is nothing to suggest that you should have a greater chance of getting a job when you have all the social problems, if you are faced with additional poverty. Then it's just a chance to get a job. And two thirds of the number that has been mentioned so many times here from the platform that it is almost being the most popular which is hit by the cash aid ceiling is not even labour market preparation. This means that they have some problems that make them not, even if the work was there, able to fill it. Then there are the consequences of the cuts in welfare. And I say cuts, because when you have low public growth that does not follow demographic development, it will be de facto cuts, and then there will be fewer hands for our elderly people in nursing homes and institutions, and it will become stress and rush in hospitals and in maternity halls, which we have all heard about. This is, of course, something that not only affects the most socially vulnerable, but also affects the broad majority, because most people in a long life need to go to the hospital or have grandparents who need it, or hopefully even one day gets so old that they have to go to a nursing home. The welfare society is of course something that benefits all of us, and when we undermine it, it hits us all widely, and it increases inequality because those who then have money to buy services cannot, while those who do not have money cannot. I sincerely hope that one day we will get to where we are again beginning to believe in our community and welfare societies. In fact, I believe that we can develop our public sector and that it can improve. I think it's just about us being willing to bet on it. I also believe that all people have something to contribute. There are very many of the people who are stranded on cash benefits today who are ill or have a disability or have a ptsd or other mental illness that has something to contribute. But then we have to create a public system and a social system that fosters it, instead of pushing them down and constantly hitting them on top of their heads and giving them more worries that make the problems worse. I have only to say that I think it is really important that this change and that we have a new majority, which will also take the political steps that need to be taken. I also have to say that the growing inequality, the fewer public employees, the far too low level of public growth, the incentive reforms are also something that the SF, the Social Democrats and the Radicals stood for under the previous government. And I sincerely hope that it will change when they get their chance again next time, hopefully.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180310	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180315	Thank you. The rapporteur has said on several occasions in the debate that poverty means that you cannot go to leisure activities, etc. This is an argument repeated many times by the rapporteur. SFI conducted a study 11⁄2 years ago investigating material deprivation in poor families. The definition of poverty adopted by the previous government was used. There the question of access to leisure activities was also examined, and the study was based on going out and asking people themselves. The conclusion was that when it came to accessing leisure activities, there was no difference between poor families and non-poor families. Then I would like to hear why the rapporteur keeps repeating that point of view over and over again. Is it an expression of intellectual laziness that you don't want to get involved in it, or why?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180418	I say this because, among other things, the Children's Council recently published an analysis that says so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180425	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180427	The SFI conducts a major study, looking at deprivation in poor families, and you come to the conclusion that when you're out asking people yourself, there's no difference. The SFI is usually someone you can count on and to whom the rapporteur refers in all sorts of other contexts. So is it cherry picking that you choose what you like, or is it just because you've heard someone say it in a debate? I think it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180506	I am absolutely fond of the fact that it is cherry picking when I refer to an investigation that shows one thing, but it is not when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen refers to a study that shows another thing. What we have to conclude, and which, I believe, is correct, is that one of the deprivations that children can, not all, but as children, may also be just having money on their pockets to go down and join the pizzeria when a large group from the class goes off the next day. Or maybe you can't go to a kids' birthday party because there's no money for a gift, and then you think it's embarrassing. Or maybe you can't go to camp. The deprivation has consequences, and the consequences must include the Liberal Alliance. take responsibility for instead of doing their own little cherry picking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180605	Then it's Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180609	Thank you. As I asked the previous rapporteur, I must also ask the current rapporteur: if the Enhedslisten acquires government power or becomes a support party to a government, will the cash aid reform be rolled back?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180625	The rapporteur is very much in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180631	I simply did not hear the answer. I'm sorry. Could the rapporteur please repeat this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180640	That is what I said. The Enhedslisten believes that this is a hugely important reform to change, because it redistributes with the heavy end down, and because it creates poverty, and because it reduces the opportunities for people to get out of social problems. Many terrible things have happened, but we think it may be one of the most horrible things that has happened in the short time the government has been sitting with the Danish People's Party as a support party. We are so it also means that it will be one of the first things we need to talk about when the majority will hopefully change next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180724	Then it's mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180727	The reason why I asked for the floor is a little in line with the question and answer that was between the rapporteur and Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, about investigations. I assume that we agree that the SFI study was large, thorough and well-founded, and what do I know? Then it is true that there was an investigation from the Children's Council. The study by the Children's Council has been carried out for a period during a previous government before anything from the current government has been adopted. It was made in the spring of 2015 and I cannot read my mind, but I can see from the rapporteur's body language that the rapporteur does not agree, but it is just. One of the questions in the study, which was about four parameters, according to which one had to assess whether one had suffered deprivation, was: • Do you have a pair of shoes in a popular brand that fits in size? Is the rapporteur of the opinion that the fact that you do not have a pair of shoes in a known brand is an expression of deprivation? Because then I think my kids could say they've suffered deprivation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180850	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180851	No, I do not think that this is something you are entitled to or that it is something that should define that you have a huge social problem if you do not have a pair of shoes in the right brand. I don't think so at all. What I do recognise, however, and I think the rapporteur's children may recognize this is that children sometimes care about such fun and strange things. It could be part of the community thing. But that does not mean that we should intervene with the large increases in social benefits and everything else, if the only problem is that children affected by the cash benefits reform from Mr. Carl Holst's hand lacks shoes in a particular brand. If that was the only problem we had, I wouldn't be as angry as I am.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180934	Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221180936	That's where the difference between the SFI study and the Children's Council report is: One went on what the child's perception was, compared to what it wanted to do, and the SFI study went on what the facts were in relation to real deprivation defined as deprivation, it was thought was problematic in relation to activities in leisure, and what I know. Here it was also possible to conclude that a number of the places where there were real economic challenges in being able to participate, the municipality agreed, for this is possible for the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181016	Fortunately, the municipalities can do that, and they do it very, very often. It doesn't change, you can say that it's a deprivation that sometimes becomes a bit of some. For others, it's different. It can, for example, be done. be insurance or medicine. And some of what these children are burdened with are concerns about their parents' finances and the future and the family and, to a much lesser extent, whether they are wearing the right shoes. I find that problematic. When children think about budgets and where the rent should come from, instead of worrying about whether they have the right shoes, then it is not worth a child's life anymore. Then we have a political responsibility to do something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181055	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Seligman's question. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181117	Thank you. It is, of course, a good thing that we have this question debate, but we have had a great deal of debate about this ceiling on cash benefits. Now it is the Social Democrats who are asking the question, and I think that is funny in the sense that the Social Democrats will not give a clear answer as to whether they want to abolish the ceiling on cash aid. I think it is very sensible that we have introduced a cash aid ceiling in Denmark • a cash aid ceiling which means that we still have the world's highest level of cash assistance, even when you correct that we have higher prices in Denmark than they do in so many other countries. It must be the case that there is a safety net in Denmark which then reflects that you can live a decent life, where you have a roof over your head and where food comes on the table, and where you can even afford a little extra if you can otherwise manage your economy properly. This is one of the places where there may be problems, because it is true that there are people in Denmark who have massive social problems. Everyone is aware of this, and I have to say that the most lucrative services in the world have not been able to do much about it, so this is perhaps something that is unfortunately being experienced. But you have to go in there and help people like that. The answer is not to give people with massive social problems even higher benefits when we already have a very high level of benefits. Then the answer is to make sure that you go in and help, make sure that the rent is paid and that money may even be set aside, so there is money for food, also for the children who may be in these families. 'Cause that's one of them. Therefore, one gets some of the highest benefits. The ceiling on cash benefits in itself is sensible, because there must be a difference between living on public services and taking a job at the wages agreed by the social partners. There has to be a difference. Everyone should be able to see reason and have an interest in the fact that, of course, we do not short-circuit the agreements that are being made on the labour market by saying: you can just get as much on cash benefits as you can by sitting in the box or cleaning on contractual terms. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. It can also be said that the social meltdown, which was announced when this agreement on a ceiling for cash benefits was made, has not occurred. We have not seen any postponements, we have not seen many of the horror scenarios that the opposition predicted would come. Well, that's nice. Neither did any of us make the deal as expected. What we see, on the other hand, is that it works very well, that people get into employment and that the 225-hour rule actually works, and that is the best social policy. In relation to the second point of this question debate, which is about the government's ambition to increase public expenditure by 0.3 per cent, I think it is almost going to be funny. Social democracy says 0.6%, so we have to understand that the distance to the huge social disaster in Denmark is 3 percent in a country which, I think, has the third highest public expenditure at all. In addition, I also think that it is an expression of a poor view of the public sector, which means that it can only improve if more money is added, that it is just about putting more money into one of the world's largest public sectors. It's only in politics that you think like that. There is a huge potential in Denmark to make sure that we get more for the money. Just take the social area. I think it's 43 billion. kr. that you use and that you don't really know what you're actually getting out of. Well, that's the kind of thing you're gonna have to look at. There are plenty of things we can do better in Denmark to help socially vulnerable people. There are plenty of margins for socially vulnerable people in the way they are treated in the public sector, but that is not a resource problem. I remember being in the debate a few weeks ago with Nanna Gotfredsen from Gadejuristen, who works with the most socially vulnerable people at all, drug addicts and others, and she stands and says loud and clear that this is not about money. More money doesn't solve social problems if you just keep doing the same thing. But the Social Democrats are more interested in using this in a political debate that is about attacking the government than about how we actually solve some of these problems. If you think the answer is more money, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181640	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181645	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there has not been this social meltdown; that we have not seen this chaos that was spoken up, so there is something I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on. It is true that we have not gone under and that there has not been an earthquake, but for the first time in the history of the country, some organisations have gone in and made a collection for poor children and families. Is this something that happens for fun just to use the rapporteur's own words? Is it something you do just for fun, or is it because there really is a challenge for some families who do not have exactly what it takes to make everyday life work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181727	It cannot be taken that there is being gathered or that Christmas packages are being distributed, and that this is increasingly happening year by year, as an indication that social problems are also getting bigger and bigger. Well, the fact that the Danes are willing to donate to voluntary organizations after they have also paid taxes, I think is fantastic. I wish civil society could fill even more. But I also have to say that when you can collect money and it is good that you can do it then it is no wonder that the money is also being distributed. If you could collect even more money, even if we were richer, even more money would be distributed. I think that is what will happen in the future. I think that in 10 years' time, no matter how much we get richer and more prosperous, we'll probably have to collect more money because we want to help other people. But it cannot be taken as an expression of the fact that social problems also explode in Denmark. You can't do that. It's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181831	The rapporteur uses some very strong terms. The rapporteur has used words as fun and hypocritical, among other things. to my colleague Mr. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. But that's a little interesting, because the answer was not an answer. The rapporteur says that when some money is collected, it must also be spent. But there must be a reason why the organisations go out and collect money under the heading that it is for poor children and families, so poor children and families! I guess it's not for fun that they do it. I guess it's because it's needed. So does the rapporteur not think that this indicates some kind of problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181911	If you look at these benefits, if you look at the ceiling on cash benefits and compare it with the definition of poverty for which the rapporteur's party was a banner when the rapporteur's party was in government, you can see that the benefits are on the border. Some are 1%. There are many of the benefits for the different types of family above. So in a great many of the particularly the benefit groups where there are parents, the benefits are above the limit in the former government's own poverty definition. So that's also the thing about throwing this word of poverty around. So, the rapporteur believes that a single mother with two children who gets 17,600 kroner. paid out, is poor? Is that adequate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181956	Then it's Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221181959	Thank you. I think it is impressive as much as the rapporteur can get up and running over everything he does not mean. Well, I am not going to use either words as a liar or a hypocrite, I will leave that to the rapporteur. But I would have liked only a small part of the rapporteur's speech to be about what the rapporteur himself thinks. Are we in line with these benefits? Is that where they should be, or would the rapporteur like them to go even further down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182030	I would say that it does not become more attenuating to say that you do not want to use words and then use them. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182036	I stand absolutely firm on what I said before. Now I do not use the word "" nor did I call the rapporteur a liar. I said that it is now that I say the word lie if the rapporteur does not know that when the rapporteur's party comes in, there will be 500 million. kr. I assume that the rapporteur is aware that when the rapporteur comes to and has to make reforms, there will be more than 500 million. kr. to do well, otherwise the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party will be able to find the 500 million. kr. The rapporteur knows that any government can do that. That is why, yes, I am not going to use the word so, we cannot say hypocrisy in this Chamber, but it is strange that the rapporteur is able to give an arson about the terribleness of this ceiling on cash aid, and then we will not say that we will, of course, remove it. Perhaps this is due to the fact that the rapporteur's party knows that incentives are working, and that is why it has itself made several reforms, introducing financial incentives, whether it be for municipalities or for citizens. And when you have been sitting with social democratic ministers, you know that they know that it is working.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182149	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182151	It is impressive, then, that I am asking the rapporteur a quite quiet question about the rapporteur's own policy, and the whole answer is about my party. Now I am trying again quite quietly: could the rapporteur not just make us all a little bit smarter about what the Liberal Alliance really wants in terms of social policy? Where are we in this area, according to the rapporteur's party? Are the benefits as they should be, or do we want to go further down this road in your optics? It is a very simple yes/no question in fact, so if the rapporteur could elaborate on it instead of just talking about all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182225	Well, if it comes to cash aid, we are now specifically being asked about it, and it is our policy that it would be sensible to start with the cash aid reform for which the Social Democratic Party was the banner leader. And then I said, why shouldn't those benefits apply to everyone? They must apply to under 30-year-olds, but they could apply to everyone. Will it be so horrible? Social democracy thinks that the level of benefits is good enough if you 29. Well, maybe it'll work out if you're 39. So that's our policy. The social democracy's cash aid reform must apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182301	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. Sir. Martin Lidegaard has not asked for the floor, so there are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182341	In Denmark, things are going well. We have a good economy and growth in employment. That means that things are going well for most people, but not for everyone. Denmark has made a political choice, and it is a choice that means that the Danes who live on the so-called bottom of society do not have a share in the progress ■ on the contrary. Many sick, injured, exposed and unemployed Danes and their families, while others have felt the progress, have been constantly reduced in their public services. The ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule, the integration benefit has cut in the help of the vulnerable and moved the money upwards in society. One might ask oneself: what kind of welfare society is it that takes the help of those at risk in times of recovery? Because poverty has consequences. This leads to social poverty, an increase in negative social heritage and, in some cases, social exclusion. According to the AE, the Workers' Trade Council, more children end up from what they call the lower class, even in the lower class as adults. In 2003 it was thus 1 in 4 children they could categorize as being in the lower class. It has now risen to one in three. So this is an increasing negative social heritage. And what is it like, then, that poverty is actually at risk of affecting people? Of course, it's in a lot of different ways. Here's an example. The American journal Science wrote a few years ago that the mind is absorbed so much by worries when we are in need of money that it diminishes our intelligence with an average of 13 IQ points. It must be understood that concerns about the economy, daily concerns about bills and debt, etc. simply blocks learning, blocks what else you can hold in your head and makes it difficult to make the right choices. This, of course, has major consequences for the people who have to choose, or for example. people who have to carry out education and poverty also have major consequences for children. In addition to the fact that children feel guilty and shamed about being in a poor family, poverty has, for example, The High School of Production's report states: The consequences of living in poverty, both health, social and educational consequences for children. In the alternative, we do not understand how, as a rich society, we choose to create conditions for the vulnerable, weak and unemployed Danes who promote the negative social heritage. We do not understand why we use times when there is rise and prosperity in Denmark to reduce the opportunity for vulnerable families to enter a positive spiral. We believe that we are in the process of working out a human and economic debt for the future. When, according to AE's calculation, the negative social legacy increases, the derived expenditure also increases in many areas of society. It may be in health care, the judiciary or in transfer income, where there will be an increase in expenditure in the future. In contrast, when you create the well-being and quality of life of vulnerable and poor Danes, the costs of health and justice and transfer income fall in the future. Investing in people in the well-being and quality of life for those who are at risk, but also good development opportunities, educational opportunities, good lives for children's families, yes, investment in all people in society, is a really good business both human and economic, and in the opinion of the Alternative, that is the way we should go, because that is what pays best back both economically and humanly. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Socialists have raised this debate and initiated this question. I also think that there is something that the Socialists themselves can do now, when, fortunately, we are so concerned about the lot of those at risk, and I would like to return to the early retirement and flexible job reform. There is currently an evaluation of the reform and of the consequences for the most vulnerable people who are going through the process of resource development. I would like to appeal to the Socialists to take the lead, together with the conciliation parties, in adjusting that reform, because it is true that it was indeed intended in terms of resources. It could have been written by a skilled social worker. But can we not get it adjusted so that people, sick and vulnerable Danes, should not be parked indefinitely on cash assistance, in job testing and resource development. Those were the words from here. Thank you again for raising this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182829	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we say thank you and move on to Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221182837	Thank you. Some believe that all people are able to change behaviour when they are exposed to financial incentives, as it is called. One of the scourges of the times is that the economy has become the yardstick of all things. The last time we had a bourgeois government in which poverty benefits had been introduced, we failed to show it. Actually, they didn't show it with them. It didn't work. We know that Denmark has not managed to break the negative social heritage. We also know that there are children, that there is no part in the development that gives them the best opportunities to do well through primary school and a course of education afterwards. It is often because it is parents who cannot give them the opportunities. That's why in these years we're talking about learning hunger in the children's group. This will require extraordinary action early in children's lives, for example. in children's institutions, to combat learning hunger. And until that is a 0.3% growth. Not good enough. Resources must be found to help all children to develop socially and through challenges and high expectations in communities with other children. The government will strengthen efforts in the day institutions. It's really good. So will the Radical Left. However, it may soon be another and even greater challenge if the family's conditions are characterised by more and more poverty. After all, the 0.3 per cent growth does not match demographic developments, and that means that everything else is equally built into a deterioration of the public sector economy. Therefore, I have to conclude that good will must recognise that a different approach is needed to people who are having a difficult time in advance. The possibility of resource development is indeed right. It is a very good idea when the municipalities carry out the resource cycle as it is intended. And in reality, perhaps we should make more massive efforts to learn from the municipalities that are doing what it is intended and where it works. After all, we must take action to help people who need help that we know can work. That is the art of political work. The Radical Left will increase the funding for children's institutions for more educators and for education. The Radical Left wants to abolish poverty benefits just as quickly as possible, and we have the funding to do so. We're betting on a generational gift. Already in 2006, a large majority in the Folketing decided to postpone retirement for one year from 2030. That resolution is in the Radical Left we propose that it be done from 2025 for the elderly, who can work another year and do so. Those who cannot must be able to obtain a senior pension with a medical certificate in their hands. The future can be a challenge for all of us, so we should be discussing how to establish coherence between a balanced economy and a dignified society for all. That was the agenda we had to set.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183231	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183241	First of all, I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party for raising this question debate, which I think is very important. The conditions of children and those at risk are undoubtedly a problem which we will have to deal with politically in the coming years. There should be no doubt that in the SF we are strongly opposed to the government's ceiling on cash benefits, the integration benefit and the 225-hour rule. For us, it is a fundamental issue of fairness and justice. We do not believe that the reform of cash benefits is fair or fair to the people it affects. Our Danish model of flexicurity is based on the fact that we are able to ensure fair living conditions for those who are unemployed, which will enable them to get back into employment. However, it is also part of our basic social model, which is that we are able to ensure security for vulnerable groups, including children, and provide them with living conditions that help them break their chance. Unfortunately, the cash benefits reform fails both. The cash aid reform is particularly affecting families with children, and it is therefore inevitable that the government, with its austerity measures, will create poverty among our children. This risks reinforcing the marginalisation and exclusion of the community in the families hit hardest by the ceiling on cash benefits. We do not yet know the full consequences of the ceiling, but we know, for example, that right now there are some 40,000 children living at home under the age of 18 in families affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. At the same time, the Employment Council of the Workers' Movement has calculated that the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit overall mean that 7,000 more children fall below the poverty limit abolished by the government because poverty is not recognised as a social problem. This would mean doubling the number of poor children in Denmark. I hear stories from social workers who meet these families, including moving to housing that is not suitable for children and which means that children have to move to school, etc., that families withdraw from social care courses they were in the process of, and that parents drop necessary costs for themselves and the family, which they can now escape, regardless of the long-term consequences. It is therefore obvious that child poverty in Denmark will lead to lower children's lives and a marked inequality in children's life opportunities. It will be a very expensive bill in the future, and I simply do not think we should accept that in one of the richest societies in the world. The government's own figures have shown that the ceiling and the hourly rule combined will increase employment by almost 700 people. It is measured against the fact that they together affect more than 50,000 people, as well as the families and children of these people. Many of those citizens have many and serious problems with health, education, isolation, social problems, etc. Most people need an enhanced effort if they are going to work or education so that they are not left on a long-term and very low social benefit. They must have an effort to tackle all their problems together, with rehabilitation and other training, with a health care effort, with abuse treatment, with networking, with resource sequences, etc. This requires the municipalities to be able to afford it, because of course it costs to help people get back on their feet. And the municipalities do not have that today. Unfortunately, there is no indication that the municipalities will have it in the future either. The low growth rate of 0.3 per cent in government, which is not nearly consistent with demographic development, is at risk of creating a bomb under our welfare societies. I find that worrying, and I believe that any decent and socially committed government should take this very seriously. The SF therefore supports the proposal for adoption which the Social Democrat rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183641	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183645	With the ceiling of cash benefits, a single mother with three children is paid DKK 20,300. a month. SF believes that a single mother with three children who are paid DKK 20,300. a month, is poor?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183706	This isn't the first time that Mr. Knox has ever been here. Joachim B. Olsen and I are discussing these numbers. What I just want to say is that the Rockwool Foundation has set a minimum budget. Some families, for example. A married couple with two kids, that's 4300 kroner. under the minimum budget drawn up by the Rockwool Fund, which is, moreover, a rather conservative amount. In addition, there are also many who actually go below the limit set by the bailiff for what is at least a family to have before the bailiff takes something from them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183748	I ask again and it is a very simple question. A single mother with three children is poor with DKK 20,300. - paid out? - Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, That's what you have when the cash benefits ceiling is there. Are you poor as a single mother with three children and 20,300 DKK? paid out every month?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183813	Well, that depends on what kind of expenses you have. Because if you've set a very low rent and that's what's in the calculations that lie on the government side then it can be reached for that amount. But a lot of people just can't live for that money with a family.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183830	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183836	Thank you. It was just like living and rent, and some people have to move and stuff like that. I'm sure they must. Does the rapporteur think that it is the responsibility of the state to ensure that people can stay in their homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183849	In fact, I think that it is we as a community who have a responsibility to ensure that people do not have to move around the whole country and among other things. move to some of the outlying areas which already have a lot of social problems to deal with because they cannot afford to stay. It also has some human consequences for some children who attend a school that attends a day-care institution, or it may be families where mother and father have split up and where one parent then has to move far away from the family life they had otherwise organized around. So I actually believe that we have a responsibility not to create worse living conditions for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183928	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183930	I interpret this as saying that the rapporteur believes that it is actually the responsibility of the state to ensure that people can stay in their homes. It also applies if you live in some of the expensive homes, i.e. 4-5 million. kr. And at 300 m2?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183945	I don't know that example of people living so dearly. Well, it's true that the rent is more expensive in the large homes, but I've never heard anyone expect the state to go in to cover that amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221183958	Then it's mr. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184002	I just want to make sure I haven't heard wrong. Did the rapporteur state that the Rockwool Fund's minimum budgets were above the cash benefits ceiling, meaning that according to the Rockwool Fund's budgets, it could be seen that it was higher than the level of the cash benefits ceiling? Or did I hear wrong? Or did the rapporteur say something wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184037	I do not think I was able to clarify this properly, because those who are concerned are those who, at the same time, are affected by the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184047	You could call it a clarification. The Rockwool Foundation says precisely that on all sides, for couples, singles, singles with children, couples with children are the minimum budgets under the current ceiling of cash benefits. That's why it's not fair to mr. Joachim B. Olsen to state that the Rockwool Foundation says the opposite of what he is just saying when he asks questions about the size of the cash aid ceiling. It's not fair when the Rockwool Foundation says otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184127	Then I think you should look at that column again, where there is something about a married couple with two children who are both affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184140	We thank the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184146	Thank you. The motion for a resolution tabled here states that Parliament notes that the reform of cash benefits has significant negative consequences for vulnerable groups and their children. I do not understand how this can be seen at this stage, after the short time the government has been in power. I don't know if you're thinking about some previous governments. However, the government's ten objectives for social mobility are precisely the social consequences of policies and interventions. The objectives will be closely followed up so that it will be possible to debate the social consequences in the coming years. Well, that's something we have to do afterwards. It is conservative policy that more must be part of the community and that more must be lifted out of public support and into employment. It must therefore be worthwhile to work and the job reform intends to make it more attractive to work in relation to receiving public support. One consequence is that some people get a lower amount of available money and this can present challenges for families. The aim is that people affected by the cash benefits ceiling are only briefly affected, as cash benefits should only be a short-term benefit. It is also important for civil society to be involved, in other words the community. There has not been much talk of this here today, but what has been noted and can be seen around it is that money does not solve everything. There are many communities. There are educational establishments, workplaces, sports clubs and voluntary associations, church and not least family. Social work needs work to be done to ensure that more people are part of society's communities. For some, this will pave the way for education and jobs. For others, it is not possible even with the best help and support to become self-supporting, but everyone can become a part of the community and gain greater quality of life. It is important to ensure a good framework for the family as a focal point in society. If we are to be able to help children successfully in life, it is important to provide parents with the best possible framework for being part of the community and fulfilling their parenting role. Compared with low growth in the public sector of 0.3%. I would say that the municipalities are currently spending 45 billion. kr. a year on social stakes, and the municipality's efforts make the difference in relation to going for more and better results. We must support the municipalities in reorganising their social efforts so as to build more on knowledge of what works and how to become more effective. I also saw a broadcast, the television programme The debate, like Mr. Joachim B. Olsen did where Nanna Godtfredsen was on the street. That evening there were also some of those who are constantly talking about poverty and poor families and that there is a need for money in this area. What Nanna Godtfredsen said, and as part of the participants were losing their jaws, was that there was enough money in the system. But they were just used too badly. In this case, it was mainly Copenhagen, but it is guaranteed that it can also be transferred to other major cities. And what we have to do is instead of discussing spending billions, we have to get something more out of this money. That was Nanna Godtfredsen's message, and she also said that you should work across and find communities around the tasks that are and find solutions to them instead of working in ten different paths, as you do in many places today. The Conservative People's Party believes that it is good social policy to help the people who need it and that the effort must really help. For us, the goal is not for people to be long on social assistance. Nor do we believe that a good social policy is provided if people are simply put on a transfer income. Transfer income has never worked. In all, too many situations, transfer income has kept people on transfer and in, we might say, social deroute. A homeless person without contact with the public system is not helped by being regulated by the 225-hour rule. That's where we're gonna help him or she don't have a home. If a mental sufferer has a drug abuse, the best social policy is not to withdraw cash aid, but to help with a course of treatment. You have to help on the basis of people's needs. One might ask whether it is not hard for children in families where adults are hit by tough rules. It's not a dance on roses to be a family on cash benefits. I know that very well. However, one gets an amount that one can live on, and I think that the greatest service we can do for those children is to help their parents to work and give them a good education. There is no happiness in living on transfer income. There has also been talk of available amounts in relation to the Rockwool Fund and others, and I would just like to make it clear that it is not money that is missing here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184714	A brief remark from Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184717	Thank you. The rapporteur says that we should now wait and see how this ceiling on cash benefits works. Can the rapporteur not confirm that it has already been introduced once when an evaluation was carried out and where the Ministry itself concluded that the employment effect was quite limited?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184732	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184735	I have to say that I have heard several debates which disagreed with the outcome of this, but employment came and it worked. I'm sure that's what happens in this round. We must bear in mind here that the effects that are, and which are of primary importance, are that these families become job-seekers and become active in coming out and mastering their own lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184801	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184803	But when the Minister of Finance himself says that the main focus is not getting people into work, and the assessment is that this affects many thousands of people, but only gets a few hundred in work, what is the rapporteur's comment on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184815	I have not heard the Minister of Finance or anyone else from the government say that this is all about money and saving. What has been clear for the government and for the governing parties has been that what is important is that we get people out of public support and out of cash assistance to be masters in their own lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184840	Just at the last minute, sir. Torsten Gejl on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184843	I cannot help wondering whether, if that is the intention, what does the rapporteur think about the fact that, after so many consultations and so long a treatment and so much work on the ceiling for cash aid, which brings only half a billion, we are getting such a limited amount of jobs out of it? We're talking about 600 jobs according to estimates from the Ministry of Employment. How great a result does the rapporteur think it is?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184915	I just have to say that if we look at the impact of this, that is precisely why I read out the proposal for adoption from the red block, because we have not seen the effect yet. That is the whole problem in this debate. We will see that effect in a year or two or three, because in Denmark we currently have growth. Jobs are being created, and this means that there is room for these people in the labour market, and that is actually a quite happy situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184951	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221184953	In spite of developments, the Ministry of Employment's own calculations put forward by several politicians and the Minister for Employment say that it will result in 600 full-time jobs being filled by setting the ceiling for cash benefits. And that is what I am asking the rapporteur's opinion on. Does the rapporteur think that this is an impressive number of jobs compared to all the time and all the effort that has been spent on this and all the people who have become poorer?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185023	Well, we can see when we come up for a couple of years, whether this has created 600 jobs, or it has created 6,000 jobs. But what was also one of the main elements was, first of all, that it should be worthwhile to work, and that means that raising cash benefits, that is to say public services, is not good for anyone, but not good at all if it is the case that it is better to go on cash benefits than to be a cashier in Brugesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185056	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185110	Thank you. And thank you for a good and constructive I am of the opinion that it is not higher benefits but an active and good social effort that can help bring families out of a cramped situation and closer to the many communities we have. And I also hope that we agree across party lines that we must create and disseminate effective social solutions with real and lasting effect, and that we have a responsibility to look for the path that will suit as many people as possible to take care of our own lives and loved ones. Then I would like to highlight a few points. Mrs Pernille Bendixen said that she would have wanted the debate to be more solution-oriented, so that when it came, for example, to the homeless, we were actually discussing whether it was the housing first model combined with the right and good social support that works so that we got beyond the discussion on the cash benefits ceiling and levels of benefits and came to discussing the more content. Because one might ask oneself: when we know, for example, that four out of five homeless people either have a mental illness or have an abuse, and that some of them even have both: is it then a holistic social effort that helps them the best, or is it more money that needs to be spent? That is the question I had written down, and I really think that the answer was given very well by Mr Seligman. Orla Østerby, who mentioned Nanna Gotfredsen from Gadejuristen, who had said in the debate that it is not really money that is lacking in the area, but that it is a coherent and coordinated effort which makes it possible, among other things, to do so. can move people out of homelessness. When it comes to economics, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Larsen says that she does not believe in economic whip for people who cannot move. I do not believe that everyone can be moved either, but we can actually see from the analysis that the Ministry published here between Christmas and New Year's, that among socially vulnerable young people aged 25-29 years there is a greater proportion that went to education and employment after the cash benefits reform in 2014, i.e. after the benefit was actually reduced. So it shows that in some way there are at least some who can move. I would just like to mention this in a timid way, because it is also important for the debate. However, I would like to thank you for a good and also constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185414	Thank you, Minister. There's no question, there was just one question. Here you go, Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185421	Thank you. I would really like to be solution-oriented as well. It is clear that the starting point of the Social Democracy is that we think it should fundamentally look different, and therefore the consequences of this whole series of actions are also our focus. But when the Minister is now in favour of us having these lower benefits, and at the same time does not think that we should turn the public sector up accordingly, among other things. As regards the number of educators and so on, what are we thinking as a society of the Minister to do for these children who are now living in a family suffering from poverty?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185504	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185504-2	I think it is important first of all to define who is socially at risk. Because when Mrs Ane Halsboe-Larsen says (First Vice-President Jørgensen) Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen, yes, that's right, congratulations on the marriage a while ago, Halsboe-Jørgensen It can and these are the social issues that we must solve together. That is why I am a little saddened that the debate has taken the form of a discussion of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and has taken the form of a much less discussion of the social solutions that help to help these families to improve the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185623	Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185625	Now the minister knows a little about the change of name, and it is not always the environment that understands it as quickly as you do. But we'll come for it. The minister says she is annoyed that there is too little focus on solutions. But I am actually asking the Minister quite specifically: what does the Minister want to do for these children who have ended up in families now suffering from poverty? What exactly would the Minister like to do? There is not a single element in the Minister's reply on this. I would like to hear that when the Minister now allows himself to stand and fret about the focus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185658	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185659	I will start from some of what I said in my speech, and that is that for the socially vulnerable children it is about breaking the negative social heritage. And when it comes to that, we will have a day-to-day offer here during the spring, and in that day-to-day offer we will also come up with proposals specifically aimed at socially vulnerable children and getting them into the community in a very good way. I hope that the rapporteur will bear in mind that I am not launching this. But it's coming, and it's being addressed in the play that comes here in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185737	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185739	Thank you. I do not think it is so strange that this is going to be about the ceiling on cash benefits, and I would also like to remind Mrs Pernille Bendixen that this is the first thing she has asked herself about for several rapporteurs. So it is clear that this is the way things are going. But I would really like to stay in this a little more conceptual phase. I think the Minister is right to say that it is the really vulnerable families that we must make a great effort to do, and they often go under the radar. Could the Minister perhaps imagine reintroducing the poverty line, the limit that will allow us to look clearly at our radar, where the so-called poor are so that we can make a determined effort for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185815	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185816	I do not believe that the poverty line helps to give a very accurate picture of who is socially exposed, because it is therefore the case that there may well be families who are socially at risk, but who would not, as such, become visible in the context of such a poverty line. I am concerned with the socially vulnerable families, and I am concerned that we are providing them with holistic solutions which are knowledge-based and which work so that it is the right thing to do for the first time. However, I think it is simplistic and unmanageable to have a debate which is based solely on economic conditions and which does not address the issues that these citizens are struggling with, whether it is mental illness or abuse, whether it is a combination or whatever else results in exposure, which is what makes them away from the working community or further away. So it is the social problems that we need to solve so that we can bring them closer to the community as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185928	Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221185929	I am well aware that there are indicators other than a poverty line, but the poverty line will then give us a very strong, broad indicator of when there might be grounds for action. And the fact that it doesn't measure everything is hardly an argument that it doesn't work at all. In other words, does the Minister not see that it has its function and provides us with some important indicators, although it cannot indicate everything?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190002	I mean, as much as I'd like to be approachable, it's quite difficult for me, because I really can't see that. And I cannot, because there may well be self-employed people who start up businesses and who have deficits in the first few years. They will certainly smoke below the poverty line. Are they poor, and do they need public help? No, they just need to have full throttle on the pedal to drive out there with the company to ensure the good idea and ensure a profit in the long term. That is why I think it is too unmanageable and that it is simplistic simply to talk about a poverty line when we talk about socially vulnerable and social policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190041	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190043	I just have one little question. I don't even think I need that follow-up, even if it's possible. I just heard the Minister say that it was irresponsible to talk about economics only when we talk about social problems. Then I just can't understand why the government has made a cash aid reform that is only about the economy and based on the fact that the poorer economy gets people into work. In other words, where in the cash aid reform are all those things being done to solve social problems that the Minister is insisting that we should talk about, but which the Minister does not have any concrete proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190123	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190125	Thus, the cash benefits reform was made to ensure a greater incentive to get to work simply because for many people there is a kind of lack of understanding that one can work in Føtex as cashier and so few less paid than if one is on passive public support. That's exactly why we made the cash benefits ceiling, and it's also exactly why it has to be worth working that we backed up and helped implement the cash benefits reform together with the then S-R-SF government. It was simply to ensure that there is an incentive to work and that it is sufficiently large for the gain to enable you to see the idea of going to work rather than being on public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190230	Okay, I guess I'll just have to follow up. It's just because I think we need to look at that agreement, which the Minister refers to, where you get less money out of working as a cashier compared to the previous level of cash benefits. I guess that doesn't make much sense, but I'm sure someone can check it out afterwards. I just need to make sure that I understand: when it comes to getting people into work with the government's financial incentives, one can only talk about the economy. But what the Minister just said to Mr. Torsten Gejl, was that we should stop talking only about the economy as a prerequisite for getting out of social problems. Well, I just need to know whether we should talk about the economy, or we should not talk about the economy when we talk about social problems, because the minister says a little bit of both.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190323	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190324	Well, I'm sorry if I confuse Enhedslisten on a higher level of course. As Minister for Social Affairs, I focus on ensuring active, knowledge-based efforts that bring people, families further into communities. And I do not recognise that economy is the only criterion that is being discussed. But all we have to say is that for perhaps 80 or 90 per cent. of this debate has been about the economy alone. And then it is just that I am saying that it is also damn important that we discuss the social efforts which must precisely help bring people closer to the labour market and further into the communities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190423	Then we thank the Minister. And then there is a short round of comments from the author's rapporteur, Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190434	Thank you for a good debate. Thank you to the Minister for running. I don't know if we got that much smarter, but we certainly found that in the Danish Parliament we look at this matter differently, regardless of whether it is about economic incentives or poor children, and no matter what price one is willing to pay to get through with reforms like these. I think we should just agree to disagree on some of these fronts, so thank you for a very good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190509	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would point out that the vote on the two proposals for adoption that have been tabled will be postponed until Thursday 23 February.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190535	The debate has been opened and the first is Daniel Toft Jakobsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190604	Thank you. Unfortunately, Jesper Petersen, our tax rapporteur, cannot be here; he has been prevented, so I am therefore allowed to hold this rapporteur's speech. In November 2016, the Social Democratic Party, together with the former Left Government, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the SF and Conservatives, entered into an agreement to abolish the PSO tax and pay the cost of renewable energy through the Finance Act. Expenditure will be fully phased into the Finance Act by 2022. As part of the agreement, the parties agree to adjust existing rules for certain commercial investments. This is happening with the bill here, which we are discussing today. The proposal tightens the rules on the taxation of people's investments in the so-called 10-man projects, which are particularly used in solar park and wind turbine projects and properties abroad. The project is characterised by the fact that the first year's deficit can be fully deducted from the second Danish personal income, e.g. pay incomes, thus reducing top tax payments. This means that investment in 10-man projects is often tax-motivated. The deduction is granted in full in Danish income, while the taxation of a later profit must be shared with the country where the investment is made. The proposal is to adjust the rules so that losses from 10-man projects can only be carried forward and deducted from any subsequent profits from the same investment, and this will then apply to tax-clear companies, where the participants are only limited in liability for the company's obligations, for example. partner and command companies. Economically viable projects will continue to function and make sense within the corporate law, but the more speculative tax incentives will be reduced. It hardly surprises anyone that the Social Democratic Party believes that it is a sensible step to take. The purpose of the corporate and fiscal framework provided by the Folketing must be to contribute to sound economic activity, not primarily speculatively motivated investments. It is estimated that the proposal will result in a lasting additional revenue of approx. 150 million kr. after retreat and behavior. As mentioned above, these funds will be used in the future for investments in green conversion in Denmark. In the course of the hearing, concerns have been raised as to what rules apply if one party is to be transferred to others. The Minister of Taxation has responded with relevant amendments allowing the transfer or sale of existing shares to other shareholders of the company. However, it is not possible to make new investments or sell existing shares to new investors without the new rules coming into force. Those changes can be supported by the Social Democratic Party and, of course, we support the proposal at all. I should like to say from the SF that, unfortunately, they could not be here, but that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190845	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221190856	As I have said, this bill is part of the funding behind the PSO agreement, which is, after all, a broad majority behind it, the agreement of last November, which contained several different funding elements. One of them has been voted on earlier today, but this is about the component that adjusts the rules for some business investment. It is the case today that we can invest, for example. in buildings abroad or in solar cells through a limited partnership, what is called 10-man companies, where it is the case today that you can deduct the costs that you have in it, which can then be offset against, among other things. in the top tax, which means that these corporate structures can be used to a great extent for tax speculation, which is what this bill is trying to contain. In the Danish People's Party we have no objection to people buying solar cells together in companies, or to buying buildings or other things, but it must of course be because you can see a business model that is profitable and therefore do so for those reasons and not only to be able to speculate among others. in the top treasure. That is why this draft law is such that in future we can offset the costs incurred by the company in later profits, and we think that this is quite reasonable. So that way, you can still maintain those companies if you can see a sensible business in it. It must also be said that the companies that already operate under these rules must, of course, have confidence and faith that they can continue to operate. That is why I am also pleased that, for some of the answers that have been critical, the Minister for Taxation has replied that he will make a number of amendments to the second reading, which are trying to address some of the criticisms that have been made. After all, it is not all, but it is also difficult to always agree to everything. In any case, I think that the amendments that have been announced are positive, so we will also look at them quite positively. With those words, I can say that we in the Danish People's Party can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191055	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191101	Thank you. This bill is part of a broad political agreement to abolish the PSO tax from 17 November 2016, as others have already mentioned. The agreement states that the parties will adjust the existing rules for certain commercial investments, and this bill translates this part of the agreement. As the Social Democrat rapporteur has already mentioned, it is possible today to deduct losses from a person-driven business from other income, such as: It is also true of the so-called 10-man projects, where ten participants can join together for an investment in, for example: solar parks, wind turbines or properties abroad. And the participants are limited in liability for the company's obligations and do not necessarily participate in the company's operations to a significant extent. We want to limit the deficit of these 10-man projects. The present system is asymmetric, as the entire deficit can be deducted from other Danish income, but the taxation of future returns must be shared by Denmark with the country where the investment is made. The limitation of sources will mean that the deficit from investment can no longer be used to deduct taxes on other income, but, as the Social Democrat rapporteur also mentioned, the tax on future returns on investments can continue to be deducted. It is clear that the possibility of deduction is a motivational factor for investing, and it is important that business remains able to do so. However, the rules we have today are being used for tax purposes, and that is neither right nor right, and therefore Danish taxpayers should not be involved in paying for other people's investments in solar parks or properties abroad. And with this bill, the decision to invest in 10-man projects will no longer be tax-motivated to the same extent as has been the case under the current rules, because it does not affect the taxation of other personal income. On behalf of the Left, I would like to say that we support the proposal. And since the Conservatives do not have the opportunity to be present, I have promised to mention that the Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191308	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191323	The Enhedslisten is not part of the agreement that is about redefining the financing of renewable energy by removing the PRS tax and putting it into the Finance Act. This is mainly due to the fact that it is an agreement which, in the words of the government, is an historically large business tax credit • it is 3 billion. kr. It is an agreement which, at the same time, provides more insecure funding for our transformation of society into a green society, a society that goes from black energy to green energy. Therefore, Enhedslisten could not be included in that agreement. However, this does not change the fact that this specific legislative proposal is a closure of a definite tax gap, which is sensible, and we can therefore support the legislative proposal. We have a few questions in relation to whether the draft law might have some unintended consequences in terms of investment in renewable energy, for example. in the area of solar cells. We are going to ask some questions about this, but basically this is a very sensible legislative proposal, to which we are, of course, very sympathetic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191440	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191448	Thank you for that, President. The government is of the opinion that most of the so-called 10-man projects are tax-motivated, i.e. that they invest in projects in order to be able to deduct a deficit from their wage income, and that is, of course, problematic if that is the case. At the same time, it is necessary to find funding for the abolition of the PSO tax, which, fortunately, a broad majority could agree in November. This bill, as others have also pointed out, introduces a source-based reduction in deficits for investments in 10-man projects. These are typically property projects, wind turbine projects and solar PV projects. Today, as I have said, losses can be deducted from such projects from wage income and, in future, the deficit can be carried forward and deducted from any future surplus. The Minister has proclaimed that he will make an amendment to the bill so that a partner who wants to sell his partner in such a 10-man project can sell it to the other shareholders in the project, and that makes sense. There has been some criticism in the hearings of that part of the bill. We think it is a sensible place for this country and that is why, of course, we support the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191629	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191636	In the alternative, we are also positive about the intention of the proposal, in other words, to close the tax gap in the form of the tax speculation that may lie in the framework that exists today. Conversely, as a starting point, we have also been a little bit critical, and it may be because we have not examined the subject well enough yet or have come into depth, in other words whether it is going to hamper any entrepreneurship, or whether any of the green intentions are going to suffer from this because, for example, some solar investments are being put to a halt. It seems, however, that it has been well and thoroughly thought about and that it is the right thing to do, but we will use the work of the committee to find out whether we are actually going in and tightening our feet for some where it is not necessary. It is mentioned that, in the case of forests and parks, it might be possible to work with an x-year plan for the effects of these restrictions, so that the long-term investments in the things we want to promote are not affected, so that we allow there to be an economic advantage, just as there have been so far, in some long-term investments where there is no tax speculation to a degree that is not value-creating for society. We can table some amendments to that effect. But we have become more and more positive about it after we have got over the fact that it is part of the abolition of the PSO that we are talking about, because it would of course be a hard nut to crack that we might say yes to something that is below that calot. But that makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191801	Thank you to this rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191813	I shall not delay the negotiations. The Radical Left can support this bill, partly because it is sensible in itself for all the reasons expressed by several parties, partly because we are part of the settlement that was reached, to create sustainable and secure funding for the whole of the green transition in Denmark. Against this background, we will support the proposal in the forthcoming negotiations, because of course we will follow up on the issues that have been, as several parties have said they will do, and of course we will also ensure, if not in connection with this bill, that there will still be room for sustainable expansion and development of solar cells in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191852	Thank you. Then we actually got to the minister. It's the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221191904	Thank you for that, President. I would like to thank you for the speedy, yet effective and thorough reception of the proposal in this Chamber. In order to give a little background, I can say that on 17 November 2016, a broad majority of the Danish Parliament, one after Mr. Rune Lund's view historical agreement to abolish the PSO tax and provide a very large business tax relief. That's how far I agree with Mr. Rune Lund. I do not agree that this is a situation where it is just the ordinary consumers who are going to pay. There are major socio-economic gains from the historic agreement, and there is also cofinancing. That is the proposal here, among other things. I would like to say a few words about this. The agreement will strengthen competitiveness and maintain Danish jobs, not least in industry and production. Although there is a lot of focus on other things, there are quite many thousands of ordinary Danes working in the industrial and production areas. At the same time, the parties to the agreement agree on the need for a continued green transition, and with this agreement we are following up a joint task of ensuring sustainable financing of the green transition through the Finance Act, and this funding, as stated in the agreement, must include: This is done by adjusting the existing rules for certain commercial investments. And this bill then translates that part of the deal. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, the aim of the draft law is to stem asymmetrical and unequal taxation of investments by natural persons in so-called 10-man projects, or K/Ss. It is typically an investment in solar parks, wind turbines and properties which are mainly located outside the Kingdom, i.e. abroad. It is therefore considered that the vast majority of the ten-man projects that are being set up today are, in reality, tax-motivated projects. Ten-man projects are characterised by the fact that the first years of losses are deducted with full tax value in other personal income such as: pay, and what has been quite legally possible before this bill came, was, of course, to reduce one's payment of top tax and, by the way, to reduce one's spouse's payment of top tax if you are jointly taxed and, moreover, also to postpone the possibility of the tax-motivated advantage that lies in investing in the projects to the top tax payment of coming years, thus minimising your tax payment, of course, within the framework of what is legal. In the case of a 10-man project located abroad, the depreciation and losses of the first years could be fully deducted from the other Danish income of the shareholders. And when the project starts to make profits, we run into the problem that Denmark shares the tax law with the foreign state. Such ten-man projects often involve a not insignificant small amount of revenue for the Danish Treasury. I would like to stress that, overall, the draft law corresponds to the joint action adopted by the Danish Parliament in 1989; that was therefore a few years ago. There is, however, a significant difference: the income of the 10-man projects continues to be taxed as personal income rather than capital income, and it is important that these investments continue to be taxed as personal income, as it is a business income. In addition, the proposed intervention is not intended to be substantially different from that introduced by the joint action of 1989. This will make it easier to understand the rules, since much of the existing practice in this area can be more or less taken into account. However, as several rapporteurs mentioned, among other things. Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, the draft law has given rise to criticism. I also believe that the Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned this particularly from those companies that are now making a living from offering joint projects in 10-man projects. I understand that they are making a criticism. I would just like to point out that it can continue to be attractive to invest in joint ventures if the project itself is profitable and economically sound. This should also be the reason for investing, whereas the investment should not be made in order to obtain a tax advantage actually paid by everyone else. As such, that is not fair. Nor is it the case that the shareholders lose their losses in the operation of the joint venture projects. The deficit is merely limited in terms of source so that losses from a joint project can only be offset against the income of later years from the same project. I think that is reasonable and sensible. The intervention aims to ensure that, in future, there are not the same fiscal motives behind the investment in 10 man projects, but that it is still worth investing in projects with a good operating economy. As I have said, there has been criticism of the transitional rules, which some have found too tight. As a tax minister, I have chosen to listen to this criticism, and I have also called on a number of the consultation parties, including from some of the political reports I have given in this Chamber today. And in the course of the hearing, we state that we are opening the door to the sale of so-called second-hand shares when the shares are sold within the company. In other words, if a participant cannot pay its share, then the other remaining participants can be sold without these parties being subject to new rules. I really think that is a very good example. There are so many who say: what is the consultation process used for? If tax is being listened to, is it being listened? And the criticism that has been made here has not been met by a hundred percent, but we have found a solution which I believe is to maintain what is the political wish of the proposal, while at the same time ensuring a few fewer transitional rules for those who have now invested in a K/S project, in the expectation that the rules are as they were now and they will have the security to which they are also entitled. However, it is important for me to maintain that in general it cannot be opened up that second-hand shares are not covered by the new rules if they are sold to someone outside the company or that the existing projects can make new investments. That would mean, as I said, that the intervention itself would lose its substance. Furthermore, I have also come across a single article expressing uncertainty about the purpose of the draft law. I think it was Tommy V. Christiansen, who wrote in Jyllands-Posten that the bill also affects the possibility that investments in 10-man projects can be included in the company scheme. I would like to make it clear here that the proposal does not alter the possibility of ten-man projects being included in the enterprise scheme. So that ambiguity should have been removed here with my ministerial speech. There has been so much debate, of course, but I would like to thank you for the reports that the parties have given, and I shall, of course, try to answer any questions that may now be raised in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221192634	There are also no brief comments to be made to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor, and that concludes the negotiations. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170221192651	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament is Wednesday, February 22, 2017 at 12.00. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
