ParlaMint-DK_20171220090003	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Employment (Troel Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 121 (Proposal for a law amending the law on maternity leave. If the child dies within 32 weeks of receiving the child, and if the child dies, the right of absence of both adopters). Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 122 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Tax of Electricity, the Spirit Tax Act, the Law on the Tax of Petroleum Products, etc., the Law on the Tax of Nitrogen oxides and the Bers and Wine Tax Act. Minister for Business (Brian Mikkelsen): Bill No. L 123 (Proposal for a Law on the Growth Fund). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090047	The items on item 4 and item 7 of the agenda may be dealt with only with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090107	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendments for adoption. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 17 by Marcus Knuth (V), Henrik Dahl (LA) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 31 (V, LA and KF), against 73 (S, DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 17 is rejected. The next motion for a resolution is put to the vote. V 14 by Josephine Fock (ALT), Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Holger K. Nielsen (SF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 22 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 82 abstentions (S, DF, V, LA and KF) 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 14 is rejected. We go further and then we can vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 15 of Mattia Tesfaye (S), and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote 28 (S), against 75 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 15 has been rejected. Finally, we can vote on the motion for a resolution No. V 16 by Christian Langballe (DF), and a vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote 22 (DF), against 80 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 16 has been rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090358	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090421	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote is over. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090610	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090634	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090703	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090723	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 103 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090753	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090817	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090845	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090906	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090937	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220090957	Thank you. After all, at second reading, we have drawn up the agreement which provides for part-time firemen, equipment and homeguards, in which part-time firemen are not required to draw on the additional daily allowance when they are out to put out fires and where the security allowances and remuneration paid to the emergency services and the home guard are not to be offset against the daily allowance. That is a very good proposal, I have to say, but in this respect it was proposed that it should enter into force on 1 October. After I had a conversation with the Minister for Employment, it was then possible to agree that the entry into force would be 1 March. He is now showing that his cheek was turned around, but not so violently, although the Minister would like to pretend that it was hard to say yes to it being 1 March. The entry into force will then be on 1 March, and this will take very many people into account quickly, and there is no reason to wait until 1 October when it is a good proposal that we need to get through. During the presentation of the report, the proposal also received the support of the SF and the Alternative. Thank you. It is wonderful when there is a large and broad majority that will help to accommodate those who make a socially useful effort. The Enhedslisten has then chosen to vote yellow to it. You will not vote against it, but I would have liked the Enhedslisten to have voted in favour of it, but it should not have been so. So it is not a completely unanimous Parliament, but it is a very good thing that we can now say to the preparedness that the wish they have had for the last 20-25 years is now being met and that it will enter into force on 1 March. So, once again, congratulations to the teams. I look forward to this being adopted and we will end it after a long and tough fight of over 20 years. It is rare that something takes so long to get through, but now it has come through.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220091208	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? Mr. Bjarne Laustsen. And as I understand it, it is even a privateist because he is not on the rapporteur's list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220091219	After all, it is difficult to destroy the good atmosphere from Friday, which is why I will not try either. I think what has happened is really good. But the old saying that everything can be done, as long as you do not have the credit for it yourself, is perfectly justified here, because the minister and his press have been out in all the newspapers in the country telling us how well it is, and we are in agreement with that. But we do not agree that we should oversell what we agreed here. The minister writes that volunteer firemen do not have to be pulled into the daily allowance. That's not true. What is true is that an agreement has been made on the amount of volunteers available to you when you are employed by Falck or by the municipal or the Home Guard, and that is a monthly amount that you can get, whether there is a fire to put out during the month in question. I know that this is what the bourgeois people proposed 20 years ago, that is to say, a model of remuneration, as is known for city council members who are not paid. But that's not what we got. We have had the solution that I have proposed, namely that it is an exception for certain groups in our society that have vital tasks. And it's really good that we agreed on that. That is why it is, of course, the case that the work that you do when you are out and put out fire is set off. I can promise you even though I come from North Jutland that the people will also pay taxes on it. So there's no cover in it. It's just that we have it completely in place, so nobody comes after and says they were promised everything. Because what we are talking about here is precisely that the amounts available here are not set off against. This is the hated 30-week rule introduced in 2007 in connection with the supplementary daily allowance. Neither will these people. Although they should be unemployed for longer than 30 weeks, they can continue to do their job as volunteers and part-time workers. What is new from what was voted on 20 years ago is that the Home Guard has also been included in the list. So now it's both part-time volunteer firemen, beachmen, rescuers and dyke guards and then the Home Guard. So it's really good. Then there has been a debate about where the money comes from. They come from a pool. And I am quite sure that the money allocated to this is not being spent at all, because this problem follows the economic conditions we have in our society. If there are many unemployed, there will also be many part-time firemen and many in the Home Guard who are unemployed, and then, of course, the pull will be larger. But we may have 10-20 p.t. in the country, which is unemployed for a shorter or longer time and who is working on our tools, so that there will not be a big move on the Minister's box. Therefore, no one needs to worry about whether there is enough money. As it is now, there is plenty of money set aside here. So I think it is very good that the Folketing can agree on this, and then there will be peace of mind on a matter that we have been discussing with each other for more than 20 years, so I am also a happy and satisfied man when it has been approved at the third reading with the small corrections that I have mentioned here. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220091528	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220091535	Thank you. I had actually drawn up a brief remark for Mr. Bent Bøgsted, but apparently it did not go through the system, so I would like to come up here and explain why we are voting yellow on the amendment. I'd like to wish Sir. Bjarne Laustsen and everyone else who has fought to get this right, congratulations on the content, as I said at second reading, and we can only welcome that. It is an excellent piece of work. So congratulations. I just cannot understand why it should be financed by reducing the educational opportunities of some other unemployed people. This amendment costs 1.5 million. kr. a year after re-entry. Perhaps that could have been found in the reserves of the Finance Act in one way or another. But there is some compulsion when you make employment legislation that if there is to be some improvement for one group of unemployed people, you have to make a great effort to find funding for it by another group of unemployed people, and that is what you are doing with this proposal. For it is clear that it must be financed by cutting the job rotation pool for highly educated people. Perhaps it should be borne in mind that graduation, i.e. unemployment for newly trained academics, and this is the group we are talking about here, is about 25%, do not hang me up to the decimal point. Fortunately, many of them come to work after some time, but what was more obvious than using job rotation as a means of getting young graduates who cannot just find a job into a job rotation and spending some training money on those who are already there? That's a very good principle. It is one of the most effective means of raising the qualification of those who are in work and giving those who are outside a chance. But no, no, you absolutely have to cut in here and that is why we are voting yellow on the amendment. Perhaps it was very good just to say that, so thank you for the opportunity. I would just like to say, and this is a little in line with the whole funding of this proposal, and we have been talking about it at first reading and at second reading the other day, that there are some really good improvements for the self-employed in this bill, but again: this obsession that it is the unemployed themselves who have to finance the improvements, then some others, for example. those with the supplementary daily allowance, who will see that when these changes come into force on 1 October 2018, they are in a situation where, if they have 1 hour's work for 1 month, they lose the daily allowance for the whole month. We haven't finished discussing that at all in this Parliament. I have called for a consultation on this, and we are, of course, continuing, as we are doing in relation to another deterioration in this, that is, that people, when they are to be re-placed in the benefit system, are now at risk of getting a rate that is creepingly low. In fact, there is no limit to how low the benefit rate can be when entering and relocating. Yes, there is something called a 0, but otherwise people will experience it and it already has 3F examples that the rules that are now to be introduced for the self-employed mean that when they are to be re-placed in the benefit system and have calculated a new daily allowance rate, many people lose DKK 3,000, DKK 5,000. or more a month. It is a deadly thinking that the unemployed must definitely finance the improvements themselves, especially when you think about how tax rebates have been thrown in grams in recent times. You can just take the business package. So that is the reason for Enhedslisten's position, including on the bill as such, that we are voting against despite the improvements that are there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220091932	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220091946	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-6, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220091955	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092003	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092034	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092051	Thank you, President. The reason I am taking the floor now is because I missed the second reading where we had the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party. That is what was meant by being able to obtain an early retirement pension as long as you have not reached the age of the old age pension. In the law, it was when you hadn't reached the early retirement age. But there was a great desire from a lot of people, as we were asked by the self-employed, it was the employees who asked: Why can't we get our payout now? We are not going to go on early retirement, we would like it to be paid now. Therefore, in the Danish People's Party we agreed with the minister to change it so that it could be paid out, if you had not reached the retirement age. A lot of people benefit from this. That is what I should have said at second reading but just missed. So I would actually like to thank the Minister for being receptive to the arguments for making that amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092155	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 65 (DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), against 40 (S, EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092229	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092249	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092318	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092335	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. A vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092402	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092434	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-6 of the Minister for Education as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092443	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092451	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and is being sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092521	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092538	Thank you. Yesterday in Parliament we had a good and long question debate about the fact that we in the Enhedslisten, SF, Radical and Alternative think we should be able to receive quota refugees from this year onwards. In this respect, we have voted in this Chamber today, and none of the resolutions were adopted. However, the Social Democratic Party has proposed in its proposal for adoption that the Folketing invite the government to resume the reception of the special treatment-intensive quota refugees, the so-called Twenty or More, from 2018. We would very much like to have the opportunity to table an amendment so that we can include it in the legislative text itself. That is why we would like to suspend the examination of the draft law today and refer it back to committee so that we have the opportunity to table that amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092644	Thank you. Then Mrs Josephine Fock has put forward a proposal to stop the examination of L 80 and to refer the proposal back to committee. The debate on interruptions takes place in accordance with the rules for short remarks so that one Member from each of the groups may speak for or against the interruption. Does anyone wish to speak? Sir. Andreas Steenberg, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092710	In the Radical Left, we can support our referral back to committee. We can understand that the Social Democrats have come up with a hope that we can at least agree to take the group of the most sick people who are those called Twenty or More at the United Nations. That is why we would like to support the alternative's proposal to take it back in committee and see if we can get that amendment put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092740	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092748	Thank you. One should almost believe in the alternative and the radical left that this is a new point of view. This is a view which the Social Democrats have had for over a year and which we have presented several times and we also presented at first reading. There's nothing new in this. We also presented it in connection with the committee report. It also says in the report that the Social Democratic Party wants to take Twenty or More. This was also the case at a committee meeting where the two rapporteurs who have just spoken could perhaps have taken part if they were interested in knowing that the Social Democrats have this position and wish to table an amendment on that basis. There is no majority in the Folketing to implement it, so we saw no basis for suspending the sitting in order to write an amendment which would nevertheless be voted down. However, I would like to say here again that, as I did at first reading, and as I did yesterday, when we had a debate on quota refugees, the Social Democrats are in favour of taking Twenty or More. If there is a majority in the Folketing to implement it, we will be happy to vote in favour. But all that parades talk that comes from parties that have set up to change Danish politics and have a new way of conducting politics, I do not really see any basis for, I must admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092858	Thank you. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Sir. Finn Sørensen for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220092940	I am now just being taught that it is a round of rapporteurs where questions are not even to be asked, but thanks for the rapporteur's standing. But that is the point made by the rapporteur, namely that if there is a majority in favour of it in the Folketing, the Social Democratic Party will vote in favour of an amendment. Does this mean that the Social Democrats will not support their own proposals until they have a presumption that the bourgeois or Danish People's Party, as a single party, will vote in favour of that is how it should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093019	It must be understood that we have had this discussion, among other things. in the first reading and at the committee meeting in which we delivered a report, where a majority has not been found. We've always had this position. If there are some parties in the Folketing who want to table it as a separate amendment in order to have it voted down, then it is an honest matter, but then I just think we should do it in the context of the normal committee procedure. There is nothing new in the policy put forward by the Social Democrats. So we see no basis for suspending Parliament's sitting in order to write an amendment which is being voted down. So I say again from the platform: Social democracy is supporters of Twenty or More. We were also in favour of this at first reading, and we were in favour of it when we presented a report. We have said this a billion times in the press, and we are happy to do so. We just don't really see any basis for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093100	There is now a series of brief remarks. I assume that these are brief remarks to the rapporteur here, or is it a desire to stand up and speak? No. These are brief comments that have been made. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093140	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for taking questions. What is particularly important about this situation is that the Socialists are in the balance to get this proposal adopted at all. That is, of course, the reason for the desire to see if you could move a little. You have the opportunity here to say to the government: if you want to adopt this proposal, then we have this little corner that, after all, will mean something to a few people that you have to give us in return. This is a very normal way of entering into political negotiations. I think that is the reason why there is a desire to come back to committee and see if at least when you are doing this internationally completely historic, yes, in the bad way, a reduction in accepting the quota people with the power you now have as Social Democrats, because the Danish People's Party has chosen to vote against the proposal, that power could be used to make this little improvement. That's what's being asked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093251	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093253	I fully acknowledge the argument. I just wanted to say that we've been there. It is not new that the Danish People's Party is opposed to this bill. We have had this discussion at first reading, we have had this discussion in committee. We have always known from the Social Democrats that it was we who had to carry this bill through. We have made the balancing in our party of whether we will nevertheless support the bill, although we know that the government and the Danish People's Party will vote an amendment about Twenty or More down. There's nothing new in it. We have been through both the first and the second reading. So we see no basis for interrupting Parliament's meeting here to reaffirm where we have been once. That is why I stress again that it is not new that the Social Democratic Party will take Twenty or More. That is what the report says. People who have read the report to the bill, and I suspect that both the rapporteur from the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative have always had the opportunity, if they would, to table this amendment. That is why I see no basis for suspending everything for no purpose.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093353	Yes, sir. Pelle Dragsted the floor again, but this is, in fact, an opportunity for each rapporteur to give his party's opinion and not to start a debate on taking this back. Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Pelle Dragsted the floor, or else you have to stand on the floor as rapporteur for your party and say whether you are for or against withdrawing the proposal. This is not a debate between the individual rapporteurs. Now I'm gonna get Mr. Kevin. Pelle Dragsted the floor, and then you get a comment per. lot. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093421	Of course, I'm just following the President's instructions. I was allowed to ask a question, so thank you for that. What is new, of course, is that the Socialists have raised this question. It may be that these are old views, but that is a very manifesto way of saying that you actually want something else. And you're in a situation now and here, where you might have the opportunity to press the government to make this little improvement. So let me put the question this way: is the rapporteur sure that if this proposal came back to committee and the Socialists informed the government that if it does not vote for this amendment, then we will not be voting for the overall proposal, then we will be able to make the improvement which, for some real concrete people, would mean a decisive difference in their lives?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093513	It is simply wrong what Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten says. That's not new. That's not what we've been saying for over a year. There's nothing new in it. We have been through the discussion both with the rapporteur of the Left, with the Minister, with all the other rapporteurs. There's nothing new in this case. Everything's been tested. We are in favour of the bill, whether there is an addition about Twenty or More or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093546	Thank you to the rapporteur. Are there any more parties that need to have their rapporteurs sent up to announce whether they are in favour of the proposal that has been made? It's from here. If that is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for referral back to committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093606	We shall therefore vote on the proposal for referral back to committee. A vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 80 votes (S, DF, V, LA, 1 (ALT) (by mistake) and KF), abstentions 0. In other words, the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093649	We shall therefore continue to examine the proposal as a whole. That's where Mr. Martin Henriksen the word.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093702	Thank you, sir. President. We have said this before on the part of the Danish People's Party, but for the sake of good order we are just repeating the point of view here. The Danish People's Party basically believes that there is a need for a major reform of Danish asylum policy, so that an asylum freeze is introduced, while Denmark assesses annually whether it is appropriate to accept up to 500 UN quota refugees. This bill opens the way for Denmark to receive a large number of refugees each year via international quota systems. The draft law opens up the possibility for the minister in office at any time to take an unknown number of quota refugees in a single year, and that is, in our view, quite untenable. The Danish People's Party is concerned that the government currently in office will be able to enter into agreements with, for example, the EU, which will mean that Denmark will receive a larger number of quota refugees. The decision to take a larger number of quota refugees could be implemented bypassing the Folketing. It is important, in our view, in the Danish People's Party with effective parliamentary control of asylum policy, and it is DF's view that the bill weakens parliamentary control. Originally, the Minister said that there should be a ceiling of 500 and that the ceiling could only be waived if the Folketing agreed. But that is not what the bill says here. It says that the Minister can derogate from the annual ceiling of 500, and thus the Folketing, if the Folketing votes in favour of this, will give the minister in office at any time the opportunity to open up the possibility of a very, very large and unknown number of quota refugees to Denmark in a single year. That is not the policy of the Danish People's Party, and we do not think that is in any way appropriate. That is why the Danish People's Party votes no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093836	There are just a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. It fell off. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093858	Thank you. It is true that with this bill we can both turn down and turn up the figure of the 500 quota refugees, which are otherwise the starting point. However, I think it is now quite explicit in the legislative proposal that if there is to be an increase, it must be because an international agreement is being concluded which limits the spontaneous flow of asylum to Europe. Is that not what we really want to see international agreements being concluded that turn the boats around and limit the spontaneous flow of asylum? If it is part of such an agreement that Denmark should also turn up from 500, is it not in the interests of our country, and is it not therefore reasonable that it should be included in the legislation? I simply cannot understand why the Danish People's Party cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220093934	The minister has among other things. highlighted the EU-Turkey agreement as an example of an agreement that would allow Denmark to derogate from the 500 ceiling. The minister in office at any time will then be able, on the basis of such an agreement, to go in and say that we will then receive, for example, 1,000 quota refugees in one year • or 2,000 or 3,000 or 5,000. The bill doesn't say anything about that. But if it is an agreement such as the EU-Turkey agreement, that is, if it is enough for the minister in office to be able to derogate from the 500 ceiling at any time, then that is not very reassuring. For that agreement has not, of course, led to a substantial reduction in asylum seekers or migrants entering Europe. You can't say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094011	Now, of course, the agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey is not perfect, but I do not think it can be said, as the rapporteur has just said, that it has had no impact on how many asylum seekers have come to Europe. It has, of course, helped to limit the number of people who are looking for Europe and at least redirected the escape routes that people have used. So if you imagine a situation in which agreements can be made that limit the spontaneous flow of asylum and that means that people stay in the neighbourhood, where we can help most people, and that means that a Danish government must commit itself, for example. To take 500 more, so we take a year of 1,000... then it's absolutely in our country's interest. And that's why I can't believe that the Danish People's Party can't support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094052	The EU-Turkey agreement has, of course, limited something in relation to the route that has been between Turkey and Greece, but then we can see, as the questioner also mentioned, that the routes are being redirected and then they come in via other roads. It cannot be said that the EU-Turkey agreement has decisively solved the problems we see with the influx to Europe. Moreover, when the Minister and the government originally made this proposal, I think the Minister said it was 9 or 10 September that there should be a ceiling of 500 and that, if that ceiling were to be waived, it would have to pass through the Folketing. However, the draft law we are dealing with here does not say that it should pass through the Folketing; there it can at any time decide that the ceiling should be waived. And that is not good enough for the Danish People's Party. It is not long before we saw the minister responsible and the Prime Minister stand up and say that Denmark could accept 1,000 quota refugees. It was an agreement made with some other EU countries I do not know if the Prime Minister had been out drinking coffee with the Chancellor of Germany, Angela Merkel. But it is not very reassuring from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. And we don't know what happens in 1 year, 2 years, 3 years or 5 years. There may be another minister, and should that minister then just have carte blanche to decide how many quota refugees Denmark should take in a single year, bypassing the Folketing? No, a minister should not have carte blanche to adopt it. You have to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094202	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen. And as I understand it, sir. Marcus Knuth to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094213	Thank you, sir. President. Denmark has a proud tradition of helping refugees. That is why, over the past many years, we have taken 500 of the UN's quota refugees. But because in recent years we have taken very, very many spontaneous asylum seekers up to 30,000 in recent years it is only common sense to suspend the quota system. We can't both let people in through the front door and through the back door. Now we come with this bill, which is intended to make the system more flexible, more efficient, because it calls for the Minister to be able to adjust whether and how many quota refugees we have to take, with a ceiling of 500, of course. And it is precisely these parameters that mean that we have taken a break from taking quota beneficiaries precisely because we believe that our first duty is to take care of Denmark. Many people see this bill as a tightening-up in the area of asylum. That is why I was very annoyed yesterday when I heard that a handful, plus/minus, of the Social Democrats refuse to vote in favour, allegedly because they see this as too hard a tightening up. Therefore, I do not understand at all that DF votes against. I assume that DF does not share the view of the critical social democrats who believe that this is too harsh a tightening-up. So that DF votes against, I'm very confused about. Then Martin Henriksen says that it is because there is this special exception in the draft law, which states that the annual number of quota refugees may, however, exceed 500, and it says specifically that it is if Denmark is to re-inhabit refugees in a very special situation in connection with an agreement aimed at limiting the influx of refugees into Denmark. It is clear, then, that this is something that can happen in a single case... everything else requires a change of law. And that's why it really annoys me that DF doesn't support this. Even if a red government were to come to power that wanted to raise the ceiling for quota refugees, it would require a change of law to go through the Folketing. In addition, yesterday we had an absurd situation in which, before the debate on quota refugees, F 1, we dealt with a draft law on the extension of Denmark's efforts in the fight against the Islamic State. If there is one reason that has been strongly contributing to the flows of refugees that we are seeing right now, then the Islamic State. However, when we came to the debate on F1, Josephine Fock from the Alternative indirectly accused the government and Denmark of not participating enough in international cooperation. And I see this charge as a direct mockery of the very, very many young Danish men and women we have who fight hard for peace in the world. How can one say, on the one hand, that Denmark is not doing enough in international cooperation when we are in the middle of expanding our efforts against the Islamic State, and at the same time pointing the finger at the government and saying that we are not doing enough by voting against our support for the Islamic State? I can only find one word to suit it, and that is hypocrisy. So I am really glad that the alternative comes up here afterwards, because then perhaps we can ask a few questions about how, on the one hand, we can be against our support for the fight against the Islamic State and, at the same time, accuse the government of not doing enough internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094543	Thank you. For the time being, there are a number of brief comments. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094548	Thank you. I have explained why the Danish People's Party is voting against the proposal. But I would like to know what has changed for the government. For 9 September, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration said to Ritzau about the bill in question: a ceiling of 500 UN quota refugees has been built per year. year of the bill. The only thing that can change that is if the government will be able to persuade a majority in the Folketing to take more than the 500. Why, then, is it that a bill is being put forward that allows the minister outside the Folketing to take more than 500, when the minister has said that the bill is intended to have a ceiling of 500, and that it has to pass the Folketing if you want to depart from it? Then why isn't that what the bill says?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094631	Well, I think the Social Democrat rapporteur did quite well. That is exactly what the text of the law says. If we are in a situation in which we have the opportunity to reach an agreement with the aim of limiting the number of refugees to Denmark, then it makes sense that we have that flexibility. But it's just one case. It is not something that can go in and change the ceiling of 500. It will require a treatment here in the Danish Parliament, and the Danish People's Party can see that. It's black and white.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094702	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094704	It's not like it's a long bill. It doesn't take up much, so it's not that hard to read your way through the bill. And you will see in the bill that a ceiling of 500 has been set and that the Minister can depart from it. It's in the bill. But why is it that the Minister and the government outside say to the public that you are now setting a ceiling of 500 and that you can only depart from it if the Folketing agrees, but then in the Parliament hall you are presenting a bill where the Minister can do so bypassing the Folketing? And it is not only this minister who is sitting now; it is also future ministers. Well, sir. So Marcus Knuth is arguing that it is a good idea that if the Radicals are eventually to get the post of Minister for Integration, then a radical minister must sit and assess whether more than 500 UN quota refugees should be taken in one year. That's kind of it, sir. Marcus Knuth is arguing for. And you have to see if you can stand up for that in the electoral associations. But peace be to it. But why is it that it is said on the outside that there is a ceiling of 500 and that it has to pass the Folketing if it is to be waived, but then when you come with the bill, it can be waived outside the Folketing? Is that really sir? Marcus Knuth's view that it is such a bit boring and rather inflexible and a little bureaucratic that the Folketing should approve the decisions that a government might make?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094812	Well, that's quite simply factually wrong. If there comes a radical minister who wants to raise the ceiling now using the example of the rapporteur, then it has to pass the Folketing. It's clear. The 500 ceiling can be waived in a single situation, a very special situation, as part of reducing the overall influx of refugees. I think that is quite clear. We would never do this if we weren't sure that the safety valve holds 100 percent water.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094838	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094841	Thank you. When we had the debate yesterday, the rapporteur from the Alternative said that the alternative did not see that there was any limit at all to how many refugees and migrants Denmark could take. And I think so too, sir. Marcus Knuth heard was spoken from the platform. Then I just have to ask, does Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Left have no concern at all if such a minister is going to sit with the power and the power to be able to decide and raise the border entirely to an unknown number of quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094914	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094916	I very much share that concern, and that is why the draft law has been formulated as precisely as it is. And now I repeat what it says, namely that Denmark must have reached an agreement in a very special situation. The Minister will not only be able to raise the limit in this extreme case, as the rapporteur is using as an example. Let us say that there will be a radical minister or a minister from the alternative who wants to raise the ceiling, but then the minister cannot just do it as he pleases. We need a very special situation. This must be done in the context of an international agreement which must be concluded with the aim of limiting the influx of refugees. This means that these parameters are sunny. It's not just carte blanche for every minister. And that's why we see this bill as very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220094958	But it is the minister in office who is always assessing whether there is a special situation. It's not the Folketing that makes that assessment. And will Mr. Marcus Knuth does not also confirm that there is no ceiling in this proposal, which means that it is unlimited, how high a number of quota refugees can be decided on in the exceptional case? It could be 5,000, it could be 10,000, it could be 20,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095024	It is true that there is no ceiling on the number, but it is clear that the agreement must be concluded with the aim of limiting the influx of refugees to Denmark. In other words, it must be part of an agreement that reduces the total number of refugees. And that's the total number we're worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095037	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095039	Thank you. I simply think it is so sad when the rapporteur takes the words of mockery and hypocrisy in his mouth from upstairs. When we criticize the alternative that the government chooses to put a temporary stop to quota refugees, it is a real criticism, not a mockery of the efforts being made to combat the IS. This is a real criticism of a decision that must also be targeted by the government. When you use such big words, I would like to ask the other way: what are the words that the rapporteur will use if he is faced with the refugee who would potentially be able to get help by coming to Denmark; the refugee who, as it is now, will not be able to come to Denmark next year, but who could have come here if we had not adopted this bill shortly; the refugee who would be able to get help with a life that would be able to get education for his children and some form of security in a traumatized life? What will the rapporteur say to that refugee when he has to explain why Denmark has chosen to make this decision? Will the answer be that it is a breathing space where we have to look after our little country? What exactly are some words to be put on that explanation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095159	It is hypocrisy, then, when the Alternative says yesterday that one does not want to support action against the Islamic State, that one does not want to support Denmark's expansion of action against the Islamic State, and thus says that one does not want to go in and fight the root of the problem. Islamic State is very much at the root of some of the refugee flows that we have but at the same time point the finger at the government for the way we prioritise the funds and resources that are there. This is not a question of whether Denmark will help, it is a question of how Denmark helps, and there we have some clear priorities, among others. That we should go for the root of the problem and at the same time try to ease some of the integration burdens that we have at home. It is good for Danish society and it solves the problem more effectively into the world. If I were to answer the specific question put by the rapporteur, I would just like to say that we give priority to the resources we have so that they have maximum effect, while protecting Danish society from an integration burden that could be greater than we can handle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095259	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095301	So what is related to the United Nations quota refugee system, namely that we are protecting for humanitarian reasons, is no longer the rapporteur's basis? Now we are protecting Danish national interests?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095317	Well one can say that we have two priorities overall: one is how we help out the most in the world, and the other is how we do it in a way that protects Danish society. We have made it quite clear that we support the quota system, but this presupposes that the spontaneous influx of asylum seekers is controlled and that the integration of those who have come here is controlled. And as long as it doesn't work out, yes, we focus the priorities we have in the world differently.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095341	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095343	The rapporteur of the Left attaches great importance to the Danish participation in war as an example of our international solidarity. But will he not admit that there is a difference between war participation and helping refugees? Has he considered the possibility that war participation will also create refugees? The fact that we are involved in the fight against the Islamic State may differ in opinion, that is, how wise it has been the way it has been done and so it is possible to discuss the war in Iraq in 2003 and the war in Afghanistan, but we cannot discuss the fact that Western participation in war has created streams of refugees. Does not the hypocrisy lie in the fact that, on the one hand, one supports the war participation 150 percent, but, on the other hand, will not help to pick up afterwards and help the people who have actually fled as a result of the very same war participation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095451	I fully agree that these are two different issues when we talk about participation in war to bring about peace, and when we talk about some of the refugee flows and migratory flows that are coming. What brings me up in the red is when the alternative stands and criticises Denmark's participation in the fight against the Islamic State or its expansion, for it is precisely to hit the root, and the next moment pointing the finger at us in order not to do enough internationally. Well, Denmark and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen is one of the countries that has been at the forefront of the fight against terrorist movements, against Islamist groups, etc. With that said, I am firmly committed to the fact that when we go to war, we do so in order to bring about peace. If we had not gone into the fight against the Islamic State, the cancer that I see Islamic State as growing risked growing. Unfortunately, there is no beautiful and easy solution to war, but the times when we go to war, we do so to make the problem less, not to make it bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095552	We may have different opinions as to whether the Danish participation in war has helped in the fight against terrorism. In my opinion, it has not helped very much • terrorism has not been combated in the Middle East. We can have different opinions about that. But surely we cannot have different opinions that the very same war participation creates refugees. That is where I ask: why not take the consequence of the war participation? And then you could say that okay, yes, we have gone down to fight some terrorists in our opinion it has been wrong, but okay, there has been a majority in favour and when we do, it is also our moral duty to pick up compared to the people who are fleeing because of the very same war participation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095636	Well, that's where I have a vertical disagreement with sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Denmark's participation, the international participation in the fight against the Islamic State with blood, sweat and tears, not least for primarily local groupings on the earth that have helped in the fight against the Islamic State, has led to a situation in which the Islamic State is in serious retreat, where huge areas have now been cleared of the Islamic State to such an extent that we here in the Danish Parliament are beginning to talk about whether it is time for us to start sending people back to those areas within a foreseeable timescale. In other words, we are now talking about sending people back to Syria, hopefully when the situation gets a little more under control. And then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen to create streams of refugees. Of course, there have been flows of refugees because there has been a terrible civil war in Syria, but if we had done nothing, we risked that the Islamic State was still sitting on the majority of Syria and a large part of Iraq.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095734	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095735	Thank you. The rapporteur's speech was rather the same tune as we heard yesterday: we support the quota system, we simply do not want to receive any quota refugees. There is a very precise word for this which the rapporteur himself has used against others, but let it be. What I would like to ask is whether I have actually understood this bill quite correctly. Is it true that the real reason why the draft law has been drafted is that it allows the so-called temporary stop to take quota refugees forever without the Minister having to go down and talk to Parliament about it? At the same time, arrangements have been made to bind a future government so that it cannot raise the ceiling for quota refugees without having to go down and discuss it with the Folketing. Is it true that this is actually the mechanics of this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095836	But in terms of suspending the number of quota refugees, we have made it very clear why we are doing so. It is because so many people have come in through the back door, in other words spontaneous asylum seekers, that we do not think it is responsible to Danish society to increase the integration burden right now. You can then deal with that in different ways. We choose to say: in future we will make the system a little more flexible by transferring the decision to the Minister. So if it is a question of flexibility, I said it in my rapporteur's speech as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095906	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220095915	Thank you very much. Yes, yes, flexibility can then be called it, so I take it as confirmation that I have understood it quite correctly. The purpose of this bill is to put Parliament out of the question of the temporary stop. It can go on forever with the same explanatory statement that the rapporteur and the rapporteur's fellow Social Democrats use, namely that right now we cannot take anyone because we get too many from other sides. You don't have to discuss that with the Folketing anymore. At the same time, a future social democratic government has been tied on its hands and feet. If it should be the case that it could feel under pressure from the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Radicals to accept more quota refugees, then you have to go down and discuss with the Left and the Danish People's Party before you can. Then I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur on having the Social Democratic Party deliver the crucial votes for such a, I think, disgraceful breach of our international obligations • our obligation to accept some of the most vulnerable refugees in the world. So congratulations and thanks for the coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100025	First of all, the Folketing has not been put out of hand in this. That is precisely why we are debating it right now. Secondly, we have made a really fine legislative proposal which makes it much easier for the Minister to raise or reduce the number of quota refugees within a framework of 500 according to some parameters that make really, really good sense. How's integration going? How many spontaneous asylum seekers have come lately? And there it is all about protecting Danish society, because we in the Left say that the number matters. We can't just take an infinite number. In addition, in order to be able to have flexibility in relation to any future international negotiations, we have opened up the possibility that, in individual cases, in the context of an agreement aimed at limiting the influx of refugees, we can make a single exception. I think it all makes really, really good sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100117	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100118	Thank you. I would like to thank Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, because he has just hit the head of the problem. It is quite untimely to call the alternative hypocrites when it is the government that cannot realise that their own actions are actually generating more and more refugees. As you know, the Dinosaurs died of too much armor and too little brain, and this is the same disease that politically affects this government. They believe that they can save the whole world by military action, but every time you make a military intervention, you also create an incredible lot of problems and, at the same time, when you do not see the need to use the other non-military solutions, it is going wrong and then the flow of refugees increases. Why does the rapporteur not realise that, with his own policy, he is helping to create more refugees on this planet instead of fewer refugees, and that this means that we have a double responsibility? There is both the humanitarian responsibility to take care of refugees objectively, but also what we ourselves have caused from damage around us, we have an obligation to rectify.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100223	I hardly know what to answer that question. Everyone who reads the news can see that the effort we are making against the Islamic State is helping. It helps massively. The Islamic State had settled on more than half of Syria and the whole of northern Iraq, and they are now on a massive retreat because of an international coalition that works, because of an effort on the ground that works, and then the rapporteur accuses Denmark of helping to make the problem bigger. We are helping to solve the problem, and I sincerely hope that in the foreseeable future we will get even further forward so that we can start sending people who have come to Denmark and have been given temporary protection back to Syria. That's the whole goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100308	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100310	Yes, I know the aim of the government's efforts, but it will fail because it does not include emergency aid, development aid and non-military conflict resolution in its toolbox. The mere fact that the surrounding areas do not get the money they are going to get means increased pressure on Europe. But the UN only has approx. 60% of the money to be spent on the refugee camps around Syria, and it is several years in a row that we have been told. Nevertheless, the rich countries are not responding to that fact, and that is why, of course, there is more pressure on Europe as far as refugees are concerned. This shows precisely that it is not the case that anyone who talks about the military being able to solve the problems works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100359	Well, it's just vertically wrong. This is a subject that I take very, very personally. I spent a whole year working with the Danish Syria effort. I have sat in Turkey some of the time at the Syrian border and seen what Danish support for Syria really is, and it is in relation to a wide range of humanitarian areas, non-war areas, the construction of legal communities inside Syria, cooperation with NGOs, cooperation with a wide range of organisations, including within Syria, which are making a huge, huge effort to stabilise some of the power vacuums that are still away in some areas of Syria, and fortunately it is now an increasing number of areas that are under the influence of democratic forces. So you can't say that Denmark doesn't do anything. Denmark is a pioneering country compared to very, very many countries that are making an effort to give support to the UN, but we have a wide range of highly effective and well-meaning bilateral programmes in the area. So what the rapporteur is saying is simply wrong. When you look at the impact of the overall effort across military and non-military and stabilisation means, you can see that it has contributed to the very, very positive situation we have in northern Syria right now, when the Islamic State is in serious decline.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100514	We've temporarily turned off the A so you can move around a little bit. This does not mean that no vote will be taken later, but there is a lot of interest on this issue. Now it's sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100527	In the alternative, we have always said that we also want to fight terrorist organisations and that we also want to fight ISIL, but we have just called for a long-term plan. The long-term plan contains everything that also combats ISIS, and it is emergency aid, it is the construction of political infrastructure, it is all that we in Denmark have a tradition of being very good at. We have fought for respect for the efforts made by the Danish military, but the worst thing we can do as politicians is what I hear the rapporteur stand and do right now, namely to tell you that if you do not want to fight ISIS in the way we do it today, you will not solve the problem, and thus also say that if we fight ISIS in the way we do today, we will solve the problem. It's just as wrong as anything. I do not think that there are very many examples of or very much empiri in history that show that we have created a more secure or stable world society with the interventions in which we have participated from the Danish side. I have often doubted whether this was the right thing to do when we were there and have often said yes at the beginning and thought it was a good idea. But now we are just looking at a society where we are experiencing massive flows of refugees, among other things. due to the climate crisis and among other things: Because of the intervention we have been involved in. It is not our fault that we have the problems, but we must take responsibility for the fact that it is not something that has solved the problems that exist. So how can the rapporteur say that it is hypocritical to think that we should help those refugees who, among other things, are suffering? have become refugees because of what we have been involved in?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100650	Let me make it quite clear: what I am saying is hypocritical is that Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative says at one moment that we are not doing anything international, while the alternative says shortly before that they are opposed to our support for the expansion of efforts against the Islamic State. That is what is hypocritical. In relation to the specific question whether or not what we are doing helps, I think that, instead of standing here and expressing my views, the rapporteur should hear the people who are returning to Mosul, to the areas around Raqqa, to northern Syria, whether our efforts have helped or not, whether the Islamic State is stronger or weaker today than half a year ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100732	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100733	I fully agree with the fight against the cancer which the rapporteur has mentioned before, which we have helped to combat down there. I have often wanted to be a peace and defence rapporteur when I was saying yes to some of these efforts, because I really thought it was right to fight them, including with weapons. But we need a long-term plan, which I have called for countless times, and we just cannot see it yet, we cannot see what will happen in the area afterwards. It is not just ISIS, it is a destabilised area for many, many decades, when we look again and then think: now we bomb ourselves to peace. We don't have any proof of that working. So when, in the alternative, we say no to refugees, it is because we believe that through international efforts that do not only involve bombs, we are actually solving the problems. I am not saying that the Left does not also agree with that, but I am simply asking for recognition that there is not just one solution for peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100824	I'm just glad we're constantly developing our efforts. We can see what works. And on the basis of the dialogue we have, among other things. with our international partners, we are looking at what it is that needs to be done for the next steps, and that is one of them. Therefore, we are extending our support for the action against the Islamic State. This is so primarily in relation to the training mission in Al Anbar, Iraq. However, we have an ongoing dialogue with our international partners and things are going the right way. So I find it hard to see why you have to be so critical when things go as massively the right way as they do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100857	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100859	Thank you. On 9 September, the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke to Ritzau, and I quote: 'A ceiling of 500 quota refugees per year has been built into the bill. The only thing that can change that is if the government can persuade a majority in the Folketing to take more than 500. What's changed since the last time? What's changed since the government has pronounced this? From the outside, it looks as if the Foreign Minister and the government on the outside are trying to say that we are extremely tough, and on the inside you come up with a bill on this, which you put in the Chamber, where there is absolutely no question that the Folketing should be asked if you want to do something extraordinary and increase this quota. So let me just ask: what has happened since the Foreign Minister said this and what is the problem on the part of the government in asking the Danish Parliament about this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220100953	I think I have answered that question twice to the rapporteur's colleagues in the Danish People's Party, but it is clear that this is something that can only be raised in a single situation and as part of an international agreement to limit the flow. I feel that the overall figure for us is the overall figure that comes here, and if we can reach an agreement that contributes to limiting the flow, for example, it is positive for us. our Prime Minister to have that room of manoeuvre, if it is that he is in an international debate, to have that power. There I have every confidence that our Prime Minister will be able to handle that task. At a change of government it is not possible to raise the overall ceiling without it going through the Folketing. So I am sorry if I repeat my answer over and over again, but I think it is really clear in the draft law as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101050	I do not think so, because the draft law does not say exactly in a single case, as the rapporteur points out here. It does not say in a single case, and I have to say that the government must have an incredibly high degree of confidence that possibly future foreign ministers, that might be Mrs Zenia Stampe, maybe others too, do not want to raise this ceiling. We just don't have that confidence in the Danish People's Party, and I think it's incredibly worrying that the Left wants to go out this way. I just want to ask again: what has changed? Why has the government changed its mind since the Foreign Minister spoke to Ritzau on 9 September?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101123	So let me read it out loud and clear. The wording is: in a very special situation in the context of an international agreement concluded with the aim of limiting the flow of refugees. I do not think it can be much clearer. I repeat myself over and over again, but I do think that it is fine if we are in a situation where the Social Democrat rapporteur has now used the example of the Turkey agreement, which has reduced the number of migrants and refugees arriving on that route by roughly 90%. So if in the future we can find ourselves in a situation where we can conclude an international agreement that really helps to limit the influx of refugees, it is nice that we have some room for manoeuvre to make a single agreement, but I say it over and over again that a real increase in the ceiling of 500 will have to go through the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101215	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101217	It was just, I should like to start by saying, very nice to hear the rapporteur of the Left admit that it is the Turkey Agreement that is perhaps the strongest factor in why we have had fewer spontaneous asylum seekers in Denmark; it is rarely that we hear that concession. I'll ask you what, sir. Marcus Knuth and the Left believe in the United Nations quota system. What do the Left and Mr. Marcus Knuth on the principle that the countries of the world take responsibility for taking some of the most vulnerable refugees out of the camps, i.e. those who cannot survive in the camps, those who cannot travel to other countries themselves, among others. Europe? What does Mr. Marcus Knuth and the Left on that system?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101258	First of all, let me make it perfectly clear what I meant before about the Turkey agreement. The Turkey Agreement has contributed to a significant reduction in those who have come through that route to Europe as a whole. When you look at why our asylum policy has been so highly effective, you can see that there has been a marked drop in the number of asylum seekers who have come to Denmark versus the countries around us, and that is not because of the Turkey Agreement, because the Turkey Agreement has contributed to a reduction in the number coming to Europe as a whole. In relation to the quota system, I am happy to read my entire speech again, but I have said that we support the quota system, but as long as there are as many people coming in through the back door as there have been in recent years up to 30,000 • and as long as we have the massive integration problems that we have right now, it is not time to let people in through the front door too. When we get the back door under control and when we get the integration under control, then we see the quota system as the right way to deal with refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101359	I didn't understand. The whole of the first part of the rapporteur's speech was about the fact that now the number of asylum seekers was much lower in Denmark than in other countries. The second part was then about the fact that, as long as we do not have it under control, we should not take quota refugees. But what I really want to ask is: if you are in favour of a system in which everyone contributes, perhaps even more, Mr. Marcus Knuth saw that it is conducive to the system that a country such as Denmark, which, according to the rapporteur's own statement, has actually managed to control it and has significantly reduced the number of asylum seekers, does not take quota refugees? Does the rapporteur think that this will make the other countries more solidarity and more refugees, in other words when a country like Denmark undermines the system of solidarity? Thinks sir. Marcus Knuth is really making more countries accept more refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101449	I am very, very pleased that we have managed to reduce the number of asylum seekers to Denmark as significantly as we have done, but that is not the same as saying that we have no integration problems. The approximately 30,000 people who have come here over the last few years are not integrated. We have massive integration problems. So to say that just because we have reduced the number of asylum seekers or helped reduce the number of asylum seekers, we must open up quota refugees is very, very naive because we still have the huge integration problems that we have. And that's why we're taking more parameters into this bill, not just the number of spontaneous asylum seekers. Then Mrs Zenia Stampe talks about what it will do about our international cooperation. Well, I would understand if the Swedes were to say: you know what, we are actually doing the same thing because we have so much integration problems. If there are countries that have major integration problems, I would understand that. There are other countries that do not have it. Well, that must be up to the individual country. I am in favour of living in a world in which we have nation states that are able to make their own decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101552	Thank you to the rapporteur on the Left. There are no more brief comments. Before I give the floor to the next rapporteur, Josephine Fock, I would like to ask the rapporteurs who wish to take part in the debate just to give us a hint up here so that we can at least plan the order. Here you go, Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101609	Thank you. I think it is a sad day because we are in the process of adopting this stop for quota refugees. Nor do I think that this is in keeping with the foreign policy strategy that the government has put in place in June of this year, when the government is precisely emphasising the importance of strong international engagement, among other things. points to the UN as an important player in responding to the migration challenge. And it says, among other things: in the foreign policy strategy, and now I quote that international organisations such as the European Union, NATO, the United Nations and the WTO have come under pressure, making it more difficult to build international consensus and tackle global challenges. Another thing that I find strange is that in September 2016, the Prime Minister signed the New York Declaration, which also pointed out that the quota refugee system and resettlement options were crucial. We can then discuss who are hypocrites on the basis of what the previous rapporteur has said. I think it is a sad day, and I think it is a pity that the Social Democrats are the party that is adding the decisive votes to this. I am surprised that the Social Democrats will not be involved in sending it back to committee. The Socialist rapporteur succeeded in pointing out to the Danish Parliament that we had obviously not followed, because this opportunity to accept what is called Twenty or More, that is to say the particularly treatment-intensive quota refugees, had been discussed, and there was no support for that, so that amendment could not be made. However, I have to point out that the comments made by the Social Democrats in the report state that a solution should be found which should not necessarily be the same as for the large group of quota refugees, so there should be a solution for the particularly treatment-intensive quota refugees here. However, what the Social Democratic Party writes in their adoption text from yesterday is that the Social Democratic Party calls on the government to resume the reception of the special treatment-intensive quota recipients from 2018 onwards. I can only back that up. And that is why we would have liked to have had the opportunity to discuss the form of an amendment in committee. Then we think it is a pity that the Social Democrats have not used their power, in that the Social Democrats agree with the overall purpose of the draft law, namely to interrupt the reception of quota refugees, to have this special provision on quota refugees specifically written into the bill. It was more to clarify why I chose to go to the platform now here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101916	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220101919	Thank you. I would like to say that I am very pleased that Mrs Josephine Fock has taken the floor so that I can ask about what I mentioned in my speech earlier, because yesterday I was very, very sorry when the rapporteur suggested that Denmark is not doing enough internationally. We may disagree that what we are doing is right, but does the rapporteur agree that Denmark is doing a great deal, and that Denmark is one of the leading countries in the world when it comes to helping internationally? Then it may well be that the rapporteur thinks that the things we do should be weighed differently, but does the rapporteur agree that Denmark is among the world's leaders when it comes to the action out in conflict zones when it comes to helping people in need?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102002-2	Thank you for the question. This is almost a repeat of the question I also received yesterday, so I am sorry if the answer may also be repeated. I also confirmed to the rapporteur yesterday that we are doing the right thing, and I also praised all those who are out there. I fully agree that everyone, both humanitarianly deployed and the soldiers we have sent out, is doing the best they can. They're all doing a good job, I don't think we can disagree on that. But what we may disagree on is that we are now helping to undermine the United Nations quota refugee system. After all, I find it worrying that the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, UNHCR, is writing that this is extremely problematic and then we have to listen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102050	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102050-2	Thank you. The rapporteur also said yesterday that when it comes to the issue of quota refugees and, as I remember, the rapporteur's wording was somewhat similar: many of those who help out there want us to continue to take quota refugees. Who exactly did the rapporteur get this picture of? Are these the soldiers at all the Assad base? Or who is it that has given the rapporteur the impression that there are very, very many of those who help, for example. the proximity areas, e.g. Our soldiers, obviously have the attitude that what the majority of the Folketing wants to do, in other words to take a break from the quota refugee system, is wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102134-2	I have not heard a single aid organization speak out for us to put an end to the quota system. I have not heard a single aid organisation that is used to working with these people also locally in the neighbourhood, saying that it is a good idea that Denmark should now stop receiving quota refugees. I have heard no one at all say that we must stop for the group that the Social Democrats are calling for, because we should be able to take, namely those who are particularly demanding of treatment. I haven't heard anyone back up if we're gonna stop for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102209	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102211	Well, we've had this discussion through some rounds, and I think that every time a feeling is created that Denmark doesn't lift its responsibility. And that is where I think it is important to point out that this year and last year we have made a record contribution to the humanitarian efforts being made in the neighbourhood. We have done so because we have reduced the number of spontaneous asylum seekers. That is what makes it possible to transfer the money to humanitarian aid. I just want to know whether the alternative does not really find it positive that for every asylum seeker who does not cross the Danish border and asks for asylum, we are able to help many more people in the neighbourhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102256	That is absolutely correct. We've had that discussion. Here again, I think it is important for me to make it clear that the UN points out that we have 1.2 million refugees in 2018, which will have an urgent need to be reoccupied as a quota refugee, and the battle that Denmark is about to join is now a battle in quotation marks. We choose to say here that we cannot receive any more quota refugees, and I find that problematic when the United Nations is asking for help to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102335	Well, I understand that the alternative means, but what I am really interested in finding out is whether the alternative thinks it is a good mechanism we have in Denmark, namely that there is a connection between how much money we spend on humanitarian aid and how many asylum seekers come here to Denmark; and that, therefore, to the extent that we are able to limit the spontaneous asylum application and spend less money on asylum treatment in Denmark, we are also able to spend more money in the neighbourhood. Does the alternative think it is a good mechanism that we are forced to give priority to how we help the most and best, or would the alternative rather not have that mechanism?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102412	I am almost completely unsure how to understand the question, so now I interpret it. Because I think it is a problem that we are forcing people to flee across the Mediterranean and risk their lives and limbs in order to reach a country in Europe. That is why I think the quota system is absolutely crucial and I would really like to develop the quota system so that we could avoid even more spontaneous refugees. That is why I think it is quite the wrong way to go out of the quota refugee system now and say that we cannot receive any more. I hope I did not misunderstand the question or I misunderstood what the questioner was asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102454	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock, there are no more brief comments. I can now say that there are two rapporteurs on the list: Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen and Mr Schmidt-Nielsen. Holger K. Nielsen. If anyone else wants to come on, I'd like to hear about it. Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220102510	Thank you. Today, the Folketing is adopting the bill which makes it possible to keep on not taking quota refugees, and I know that both the government and the Social Democrats think it is very important to say that this is not a quota halt, but a suspension, that it is such a temporary stop. Then we must hope that the fact that we are so concerned about those words and that it is so important for the government and the Social Democrats that we must not call it a quota freeze, but that it is just now that we are not taking quota refugees that we are going to have to think better soon. After all, it is every year that the minister in office has to deal with whether it is felt that Denmark will be able to accept these 500 quota refugees. I have to say, for me, it's not just a sad day. In fact, I also think it is extremely badly linked. I do not think there is any good argument that Denmark cannot provide protection for 500 quota refugees a year selected by the United Nations, and I think it is a bad thing to do with all the things that are otherwise said in the discussion about what we should do in this totally incalculable and terrible situation that the world is in, namely that historically many people are on the run. One of the arguments we most often hear is: Well, we have to help in the neighbourhoods. I fully agree with that, and I am for the trivial reason that more than 90 per cent. By far, the vast majority of people who have fled, for example. from Assad and from the Islamic State of Syria, are either internally displaced or in neighbouring countries. So, of course, the main task is there. In fact, a crucial factor in relieving the surrounding areas is the quota refugee system, which the government and the Social Democratic Party will not be part of for a period of time. For by lifting some people away from the neighborhoods, among other things. Some of the people who have special protection needs are releasing resources in the immediate areas that everyone is talking about we need to help, which everyone is talking about we need to relieve. Another argument I hear very often is that we have to hit the traffickers hard and that it is therefore a major problem that many people come spontaneously and seek asylum. That's because that route and that mechanism like supports the people smugglers' business. I agree with that. So how do we get around these smugglers? Yeah, we do, among other things. by creating legal escape routes. The UN quota refugee system is a legal escape route. It is a way of avoiding the smugglers, whom I think we all regard as a gigantic problem. I also hope and believe that there is a collective understanding to try to stop a lot of people drowning in the Mediterranean while trying to get to safety. What is an absolutely crucial tool to ensure that fewer people take the dangerous, dangerous road, that is to get into a sinking-full dinghy on the Mediterranean Sea? Yes, that is the quota refugee system, because the quota refugee system is precisely a way to prevent people from having to sit down in that rubber boat. Then it is said: the asylum system is so unfair. And I agree with that. The asylum system is basically deeply unfair, because it is the case, for example, that it is. is significantly more dangerous for children to escape than for adults. Well, that means that adults have better chances of getting to safety than children have. And we know that men have better chances of getting to safety than women have, because the risk of being subjected to violent and indescribable, unbearable abuse, including sexual abuse, is significantly greater for women than for men. We also know that older people have a much harder time fleeing. We know that people who are suffering from illness or disability have a much more difficult time fleeing. What can you do about it? Yeah, you can, among other things. try to overcome the injustices by supporting the quota refugee system, i.e. a system where it is not your gender or your age, or whether you are ill or not, or your wallet, which determines whether you have the opportunity to be reoccupied, whether you have the opportunity to get to safety, whether you have the opportunity to be protected. All this can be done by the quota refugee system. Nevertheless, it is the system from which the majority of the Parliamentary Government, the Social Democratic Party, is now turning away. That's incomprehensible. Then there are also some who say: Well it is only 500, Denmark has taken, it is a drop in the sea, it probably doesn't mean much, because there are so many people who are on the run. I never understood that argument that if you can't help everyone, yes, you shouldn't help anyone at all. Firstly, it makes a decisive difference for the 500 people who actually come to safety, who would have been given the opportunity to get to safety even if they are children, or even if they are women, or even if they are older, or even if they are ill, or even if they have no money to pay a smuggler with Secondly, we need more countries in the world to say yes to the quota refugee system, and we need more people to have protection through the quota refugee system. Will the decision now being taken in the Danish Parliament help more or fewer people who are at risk and who need protection get help through the quota refugee system? Yes, that decision will mean that things are going the wrong way. It will mean that there is a smaller country which is part of the solidarity system of the United Nations quota refugee system. We can only hope that there are no other countries that are inspired and think: Well, okay, if Denmark can decide not to take quota refugees, we can well. And I think it is worth noting and worth remembering that of the countries in the world that provide protection for quota refugees, Denmark remains the only country that has chosen to stop. We are reacting to a world-historical refugee crisis by saying: we will no longer accept quota refugees. This is how we need a new system. We need legal ways of doing this. We really need to get around the smugglers. We therefore need to avoid all the injustices that are inherent in the way in which protection can be provided today. The solution includes and requires a significant expansion of the quota refugee system, a marked increase in support for UN cooperation in this area. And that is the solution Denmark is taking a step away from today. I think it is extremely sad and I would urge Members of Parliament to consider carefully whether it is really the green button that should be printed now. Is that really wise? Is that a wise way to respond to the situation in the world? I certainly don't think it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103343	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103345	Thank you. This year we have fewer asylum seekers than we had last year, and last year we had fewer than we had last year. And yet this year we will be issuing residence permits for about 10,000 refugees and family members. And it is the Minister's opinion that for the next three years, there will be 10,000 further family reunifications for those who have already come here. We in the Social Democratic Party think this is quite a lot of people, and it is a great task for many municipalities to find homes and practitioners and schools and psychologists and interpreters and much more to make integration work. That is why we have made the assessment that there is a need to pull the hand brake and see what we can do to limit the number of new residence permits. We can, of course, have a political disagreement between the Social Democratic Party and the Enhedslisten about what the capacity of Danish society really is. And for the Social Democrats, it is at least the case that when we can see that we are writing 10,000 residence permits, we think that there is good reason to breathe and see what we can do to limit the flow. I just want to hear: does the Enhedslist really think that 10 000 residence permits of one year for refugees and family members are so many that political initiatives should be taken to limit it, or should we not take any initiatives to limit it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103456	Perhaps I should start by saying that I believe we share the ambition that says that it would be best and that it would be most fair if fewer people were to flee through illegal dangerous roads and if more people were to be protected by legal safe roads. In other words, I share the ambition that fewer people should seek asylum spontaneously and that more people should be protected by legal means. How do we get there, because I think we share that ambition? How do we get there? I believe, and the UN system believes, and all the organisations working in the area of refugees believe that a key element in achieving that objective is the United Nations quota refugee system. For the United Nations quota refugee system, not least if more countries are looking for it, and if more countries are trying to make it stronger, it is precisely the way to fewer spontaneous asylum seekers and more organised routes to escape. Then Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: Have many people arrived? Yes, there have been many people and it is not a problem-free integration of refugees. If you thought so, you'd be naive. It is quite obvious that many come from countries and cultures that are very different from Denmark. It is also quite obvious that many people have severe traumas in their luggage. Does this lead me to conclude, in other words, that it is difficult and that the task of integration is not easy, that we should not take quota refugees? No, it doesn't. There are at least two reasons for this. One is that I believe we have a responsibility in the world because many people are on the run right now. This also means, of course, that the task will be greater for us. The second, as I said, is that I believe that the quota refugee system is so crucial to ensuring a fairer system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103701	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103703	That was a very long answer, I would say, to a fairly simple question. Now Enhedslisten's rapporteur and I have sat shoulder to shoulder on several consultations with the Foreign Minister and asked her to answer precisely the questions that we ourselves thought were quite precise. So now I will try to ask the question a little more precisely. I understand that the Enhedslisten is not in favour of a temporary suspension of the quota system, but does the Enhedslisten believe that political initiatives should be taken to limit the influx of refugees and family members in a situation where we can see that 10 000 residence permits are issued this year and that in the next three years alone, in the area of family reunification, we can see that an additional 10 000 residence permits will be written?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103744	Indeed, I think so if political initiatives are to mean a massive strengthening of the quota refugee system. Of course, Denmark cannot do this alone. This requires international cooperation both in Europe and in the world, that is clear. I believe that massive upgrading of the quota refugee system would mean that fewer people are forced by illegal means to try to find protection. In addition, we have a discussion here in Denmark, where I very much disagree with Mr Tugendhat. Mattias Tesfaye and with the Foreign Minister. It is about what you are willing to do to scare refugees away from Denmark. Social democracy now believes that you can tell children and parents that 3 years, so long you have to wait for family reunification. Apparently, three years is the moral limit to Social Democracy. I do not think that is justified. I do not think it is justified to scare refugees from Denmark that it is said to children that it is 3 years before you can be brought together with your father or mother.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103847	I would like to call for us to try to hold a whole and a half minute, for there are many who would like to take part in this debate. The next one is sir. Roger Courage Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220103859	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I would just like to congratulate the rapporteur on her speech, and then I would like to point out how necessary it is that we have a debate which is based not only on objectivity but also on ethics and morality, which speaks Denmark up as a nation of solidarity, as a humane nation. For me, it is essential and necessary that we can continue to present these views to our citizens so that we do not have to talk only about the economy and these boxes, which do not take care at all of these terrible situations that we are facing. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees says that by 2050, we will have 200 million climate refugees unless we take care of the development we have today with the use of resources. And all of this is therefore part of a humane and solidarity debate that we must also take. So thank you very much to the rapporteur for also representing these views.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104010	Thank you. I think that Denmark does a great many things, including in the area of refugees, which we really have reason to be proud of. Denmark is one of the best countries in the world to get to if you are forced to flee. There is no doubt about that. And Denmark is high in terms of providing development aid. I think we should be higher, but we are high, so I actually think we have reason to be proud of many of the things we do in the world and also here in Denmark, but right in this area I really think we are going in the wrong direction when we say that we will no longer be part of the system that could create a fairer refugee system in the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104057	I would like to ask the three gentlemen to take a few steps back. Their voices are plunging right up here and disturbing the debate that is up from the platform. And this is, after all, the most important experience with the eyes and ears of the Danish Parliament and the President. I would ask them to step back, they are disturbing the debate at the moment. The next question is Mr. Kaare Dybvad. No, it's not, it's Mrs Astrid Krag. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104130	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the question raised by my colleague Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye asked. For we came a little bit along the way towards an answer, but of course not all the way, in relation to what Enhedslisten's own political command is. In other words, Enhedslisten's rapporteur admitted that 10 000 residence permits in Denmark with everything that comes from the integration task, including access to health care, medical coverage, nursery places, housing etc. And I even heard the Enhedslisten's rapporteur say that this is actually something that the Enhedslisten would like to limit. But what was then the answer to what would be done was that more quota refugees would be taken. But if we take more quota refugees, that must mean that the Enhedslisten believes that we must limit the number of spontaneous refugees or the number of family reunifications. Otherwise, there is something that is so mathematically not concerned with the answer given by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to Mr. Mattias Tesfaye before. So I would just like to ask the Enhedslisten's rapporteur to elaborate on that. What exactly do Enhedslisten think we should do here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104231	Well, I think Mrs Astrid Krag can understand what I'm saying. I just think, Mrs Astrid Krag, and that's no surprise, that's very disagreeable with me and with the Enhedslisten on refugee policy. And that disagreement has existed for a long time. We share the ambition that fewer people end up being spontaneous asylum seekers. And the reason we share that ambition is that there are so many injustices in the way we try to make an asylum system work. There is no doubt that it would be significantly better and significantly fairer if more could be protected by legal means. So the question is, How do we move the world in that direction? Yes, we certainly do not do that by abandoning membership of the United Nations quota refugee system. On the contrary. That decision specifically means that fewer people will have the opportunity to seek legal protection. And then I know that the Social Democratic Party is very proud that decisions have been taken in Denmark that have helped to scare refugees from seeking asylum in Denmark. I do not share that pride and I do not agree with those decisions. One crucial factor in this context is the family reunification rules. For me, it's a pretty basic principle that parents and children can be together. And war tears families apart, we know that. I think Denmark should contribute to the reuniting of those families and not the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104412	But then we are about where we stood when the rapporteur was first asked whether the number matters, and whether it is a high number we are about to succeed in integrating, and whether the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party would be involved in doing something about looking at the number of residence permits we are giving here in Denmark, where the rapporteur, for a few reply rounds back, actually said that yes, the rapporteur's party would like to do something about that, because it is a very great challenge we face as a society. Some people need to be helped well on the way, so it costs both money and resources to do it properly. And I think we share that ambition. However, there have not yet been any concrete political initiatives by the rapporteur to bring us there. There have been a lot of words that we have heard many times and then an ambition that there should be fewer spontaneous refugees. But it has to be followed by concrete political action and not just a desire that there would be fewer spontaneous refugees in the world. I think we could all sign that. It may be, then, that the rapporteur can explain here the last time she has the floor: what is the concrete political commitment of the Enhedslisten to ensure that we have a fairer refugee system in the world and that we can succeed with the integration of those who will be granted a residence permit in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104528	But Mrs Astrid Krag has two ears. That is why I am sure Mrs Astrid Krag can hear what I am saying. And I also know that Mrs Astrid Krag has been following this area for many years, and that is why I think Mrs Astrid Krag knows about the policy of Enhedslisten. Firstly, it is quite obvious that it is not easy to integrate people who come from countries that are very different from Denmark and who have often been subjected to serious and unbearable things. So this does not lead us to conclude that we should not help people who are on the run. It is clear, then, that the task of helping people who are forced to flee is increasing and thus the number of people who come to Denmark is also increasing in a situation where historically many people are forced to flee. I actually thought that would be the logic of social democracy. So if Mrs Astrid Krag has understood me in the sense that it is the policy of Enhedslisten that there should be fewer people who have protection in Denmark, then that is wrong. I believe that this is a logical consequence of the fact that so many people in the world are forced to flee, that the task is also being increased here in Denmark. Secondly, how do we create a fairer system? But I would say to Mrs Astrid Krag that we do, among other things. by creating organised, legal ways to escape from the smugglers. And this requires strong international cooperation. This presupposes the quota refugee system from which the Social Democratic Party is now turning.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104706	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. The next rapporteur is Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party. He is the last rapporteur, and after the rapporteurs we have to proceed with the vote unless the Minister wishes to speak, because she has the right to come to the end. Here you go, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220104723	I believe that most people will admit that the refugee problem is international and is really global and that it is one of today's heroic global challenges and that international cooperation is essential if we are to deal with it. This cannot be done in the individual country by closing borders or by making unilateral measures that need to be pulled together. There are several places you do it. The EU is currently discussing quite clearly how to formulate a refugee policy within the EU. It is difficult because there are different views about it, but we still have to push for it, and from the Danish side we have to commit as much as possible to EU solutions to this. Then there is the United Nations, which has always played an important role in international refugee policy and where there are a number of different instruments and measures that are being used, including the so-called quota refugee system. Denmark has always been very concerned about this, it was actually a Danish High Commissioner for Refugees who suggested it at the time, and it was a Danish Prime Minister who was very much in the forefront of getting this up; we have always been very involved in this. What we are doing now, apparently, is that we are really pulling out of that cooperation, because that is the reality of this. If we're gonna cut right into the leg, that's the reality of this. I have to say that we are making a very big mistake. I do not need all sorts of vocal expressions, which have also been mentioned. I'd say it's a huge mistake. I would like to say to the Socialists: you are also making a huge mistake by supporting this bill. You have the opportunity to make it fall if you want to. You have decided not to, and we must then of course accept that that is the case. But I would like to say that this is a huge, huge mistake, because one of the cornerstones of dealing with the refugee problem is that the UN plays a strong role. It is a cornerstone of Danish foreign policy and Danish refugee policy that the UN must play a strong role. That is why we have always done it on the Danish side, and the Social Democratic Party has always been deeply, deeply committed to the work that has been done. I am completely incomprehensible about the sudden pulling of the plug for a long-standing tradition of engagement in international refugee work. I have heard the arguments, including those of Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, and so recognizes the premises too much of what is being said. There is a problem around integration, finding housing, etc. I understand those objections. I just think, first of all, that it is not 500 refugees who cause it to collapse completely; we all know that it is not. Secondly, it is a very high price that is being paid by actually pulling the plug for international refugee cooperation. It is a very, very high price to pay because it has been the foundation of Danish politics for many years and because we need to cooperate internationally. So I have to say that, of course, I am sorry that it is the country where it is, but would also say that I think that Parliament should think twice and that we should then at least subsequently - and I hope that this will also be the case - have a debate with the Socialists to take advantage of the opportunities that may exist to restore this. It was said that it is in the neighbourhood that efforts must be made and what can be done to limit the flow of refugees. I fully agree that it is in the neighbourhood that efforts must be made. I think we all agree with that. We also agree that we need to take it seriously to better protect Europe's borders. And we agree with that, too, is part of this. There are many different instruments we need to draw on. That is also why we have proposed that we should work more with camps in the neighbourhood where the refugees can be sent back, where we have the assurance that they will be driven properly, and that it is the UN that stands for them, that is to say that the UN will also have a role there. In other words, we are getting a bit of a paradigm shift in the whole refugee policy. I think we should have that discussion, and we are willing to take it. That is why this is not about just accepting an unlimited number of refugees. It is about strengthening international cooperation in this area. There I would say, with regard to the quota refugee system, that it is true that it is not, of course, the case that the Danish side is taking 500 to save the refugee problem. I fully agree with that, although it means something to the people concerned who would come up here; we must also have that in our minds. But that is not what solves the problem. It is just part of a global effort on the part of the United Nations, and if we go out of it, we risk it all waning and falling apart, and that is not what we need now. We need to get a strengthened UN into all this work through the quota refugee system, but also by giving the United Nations a responsibility for camps in the neighbourhood and by improving the conditions of the people in the vicinity. Because that is where the main problem is, and there we are in complete agreement. So maybe we're not that far apart when it comes to the substance of how to solve this. I just think it is extremely unwise that we should go out of the quota refugee system, because the price is quite, quite high.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105429	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105431	Thank you. I was very upset when the rapporteur suggested that the Danish war effort in the world has helped to create flows of refugees, that is to say that we have made the situation worse and not better. If we look at the specific situation in and around Syria, does the rapporteur believe that the overall international effort, including the Danish, against the Islamic State and the Islamic State, is a main reason for the flows of refugees, has contributed to the fact that there is now more stability, that the Islamic State is weakened and that there is now a greater hope that refugees can return? Or does the rapporteur think that Danish participation has helped to strengthen the Islamic State and create flows of refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105515	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105516	So, frankly, isn't it a little sloppy that we should now have a big discussion about the Danish war effort? What's that? I can take that. I have taken it on many occasions, and I am happy to take it with Mr. Marcus Knuth. But frankly, I do not think that the Danish war effort has much to do with this matter. It is, of course, to mix things up completely when you think so. Sir. Marcus Knuth claims we're so engaged around the world because we're at war out there. Yes, and we can have many different opinions about that. We have been at war in Iraq since 2003, we have been at war in Afghanistan, we have been in Libya and we have different views on it. But it is indisputable that this war effort has also created refugees. I'm not saying it's our fault. I'm just saying that it's beyond question that it's created refugees. So, when we are involved in the war effort, do we not, if otherwise hypocrisy is to stop, have a responsibility to take care of the people who are fleeing? Don't we? Frankly, I think we do. I think it's a little weird that we're bragging about how much we're at war. Marcus Knuth, how much we solve, and when it turns out that there is actually a cost in terms of refugees, you report passports.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105642	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105642-2	With all due respect, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, who himself raised the subject of the Danish war effort when I stood on the platform. It wasn't me, it was sir. Holger K. Nielsen, who himself brought the subject up with a criticism of the Danish war effort. But the rapporteur did not reply to me. Does the rapporteur believe that the overall action against the Islamic State has helped, or has it harmed?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105708	Well, sir, it was. Marcus Knuth, who brought that question in, and then I picked it up. Whether it has benefited or damaged? Well, in Syria we haven't been very involved. It has helped in certain areas in Iraq. In other areas, I believe that Western war efforts in the Middle East, Syria and Iraq in particular have done more harm than good.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105734	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105735	I took the floor at first because the SF rapporteur said that the reality is that with this bill we are withdrawing from the United Nations quota refugee system. I do not think that is entirely reasonable. Now we are at the third reading and we have had many discussions on this and it has always been stressed that we are not withdrawing from the United Nations quota refugee system. There is a ministerial response to the draft law, which clearly shows that we do not. On Friday, we are discussing a financial bill that clearly shows that we are budgeting 500 quota refugees in 2018. So I don't think that's fair. Then the SF rapporteur says that the Social Democracy has a proud tradition of thinking that the UN must play a strong role. We continue to believe that the UN should do so, both in relation to quota refugees, but also where the UN is taking on the biggest role in the neighbourhood, and there we are particularly proud that in 2017 we are spending record money. We have never spent so much money, and that is because the government has decided that the less money spent in the Foreign Affairs Agency to deal with asylum applications should be spent by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the camps. Is it really not a good mechanism that the SF can support, that is, that there is a link between whether we spend the money on asylum treatment here or whether we spend it in the neighbourhood? If the SF can back that mechanism, has it not been a mistake that the SF has not supported the legislative proposals that have supported a tightening up of the Aliens Act over the last 2-3 years, yes, many years now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220105901	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye turns things upside down. The question of the mechanism he is talking about, on which we have agreed, is of course about the so-called DAC rules. This is going to be a little technical and that is that you can use part of the development aid for asylum reception. We maintain in Denmark that we need 0.7 per cent. of GNP for development aid. Because the asylum costs then went up at some point, development aid was cut off. This means that at some point some money was taken from aid from the developing countries to the reception of asylum. Then there will be fewer asylum seekers and then the money will go back to development aid. Well, it was good that they went back, but it is not such a fantastic mechanism that is described here. Of course the money comes back, what else would they do? They've been taken off a frame. Then you don't spend the money taken from the frame, and then you take it back to the frame. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110004	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110004-2	I fully agree with the rapporteur's description of how it works. However, the rapporteur also recognizes precisely there that because fewer asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark than we have budgeted for in the Finance Act, it also means that it has released some funds that enable us to help significantly more people in the neighbourhood. Has it not therefore been sensible and gratifying that fewer spontaneous asylum seekers have arrived in Denmark? And the rapporteur does not admit that it is not only, but also, among other things. because of the legislative changes we have made here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which the SF has voted against, and that it is therefore despite the SF and not because of the SF that the Danish state is today able to help more refugees than we were in the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110047	I welcome the fact that fewer asylum seekers are coming to Denmark. I think we all do. However, that this is due to the legal constraints that we have been against, I do not believe that we are in favour of a reality check, which is why it is not fair to say that we have been against the things that have caused fewer asylum seekers to come. It is, after all, a large number of other factors that are taking place in this area. Whatever the point, we still believe that there are obligations at international level and that there are obligations in relation to the reception of asylum. And we do not think that this is the way to scare away all people in advance. But we are glad that fewer people seeking asylum have come to Denmark and that it also frees money elsewhere. It's obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110144	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. There are no more brief comments. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has been given the opportunity. Finally, I should like to ask whether more people wish to speak. That does not seem to be the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110201	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote now. For the vote 57 (S, V, LA and KF), against 47 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is therefore adopted and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110240	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110258	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour, 74 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 32 (DF and EL), abstained 0. In other words, the bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110330	No amendments have been tabled. Any of you guys want to make a statement? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110355	A vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110424	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? No one wants to speak, so we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110446	A vote can be taken now. We shall conclude the vote now. In favour of 23 (DF), against 81 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110519	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Yes, it is there, and it is the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220110541	Thank you for that, President. After all, the Danish People's Party has said that we would like to explain our position on the resolution here at second reading, and so we do. This is an interesting proposal which has been put forward here. I would also like to say that I am now looking down at the Minister for Finance that this is something that has been talked about a great deal here in the last days and weeks and, indeed, also months, also in the context of the tax agreement that has now been postponed. Well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, well, The Danish People's Party has said very clearly that if tax cuts are to be made, and we are not opposed to this being the case, we must also ensure that they are implemented up to 2025 and that there is, of course, room for the welfare society, as we know it today, to have equal access to education, equal access to health, etc. That is why we have also waited for that agreement to come into effect. So it has not arrived, and now we are here at the last reading of the resolution. I have to say that the resolution here is working on a slightly different agenda than we do in the Danish People's Party. So we agree with the heading, in other words to ensure the security of welfare, also forward-looking, with a small, moderate increase in public spending. This is how you ask today what it is for a need that is, for us to grow older, and for there to be challenges in the welfare society... but indeed also opportunities... the answer is that there is a need for a small, moderate boost of 0.65%, and that gives 26 billion. kr. The proposal here says 0.7%. and 25 billion. kr., but it also says circle. So I would like to say that we probably feel the same way in the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party about what it is that is needed. Where there may be differences there are, among other things, when it is said that there must be a growth in consumption in the public sector year after year. There we have to say, when we see the figures coming from the Ministry of Finance, that it is fluctuating. What we can see, among other things, is that in 2017 when we have just received an economic report there has been a growth in consumption of 0.5%. Then you might ask whether it is so terrible that we have not spent the last 0.2% and how we shall then use them. Of course, you don't just have to use them. We're not going back to a system that we know from the defense. I used to be a part of it myself when I was a recruit. When it was the end of the year, you had to drive a column drive, and then you had to go to the shooting range, and then you had to fire some of it, because otherwise you weren't sure you had used the quota that was there. Of course, we should not have such a welfare society. We must have a welfare society where the money that is needed is available. I would also like to say from the Danish People's Party that when we say that there must be a growth in public spending, it is not, of course, a question of spending the money; it is a question of spending it properly. It is the case that we have some proposals for the negotiations that start again after New Year. Among other things: in the field of foreigners, we spend 33 billion. kr. annual on non-Western immigration. We want to bring that down. If we succeed in this, then public consumption will actually fall. We think this is really positive. We would like to discuss this money with good strength what we need to spend on. So to say that money must be spent, we do not want it. But we want there to be room for manoeuvre, so that, if the money is needed, they are, of course, present. What we can also see is that we live longer. We also live longer with the diseases we have. This means, of course, that there is a need for an increased feature, including in relation to welfare. We want to help finance that. Unfortunately, we cannot vote in favour of the proposal as it stands here. There are two reasons for this. There's a little technique in this... I guess we could have figured out a way to straighten it out together. Then, of course, there is also the fact that it says it should be from 2018, and there it is, after all, when you have entered into a Finance Act and we do, now this Friday, I am quite convinced that we have been voting in favour of such a proposal here, which goes in and amends the Finance Act that has been signed for 2018. However, I would like to say, as we also said at first reading, that we are in complete agreement with the intentions. We are really happy that when you stand up here looking at the Parliamentary Chamber, you can see that there is in fact a welfare majority in the Folketing that helps us to have a good discussion about what the welfare society needs, both in the area of the elderly and in the field of education and so on. We will also see that in the Finance Act voted through on Friday, there will actually be an increase in public spending above 0.7%, actually at a further 0.1%. And why does it do that? It does, among other things, because there has been a decrease in consumption in 2017. That's also why this thing about making a claim on how much money you need, you have to be careful. But the intention that there should be room for manoeuvre towards 2025, but, of course, with fluctuations over the years, we agree. We cannot vote in favour of the proposal, but we fully agree with the intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111029	Thank you. It was a very inspiring speech. At least five colleagues were inspired by brief comments. The first is sir. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111039	First of all, thank you to Mr. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: It emphasizes that there is a broad majority in this Parliament who wants a different economic policy from that proposed by the current government with a basic growth rate of 0.3 per cent in the public sector. However, I also have to clarify for the sake of good order that when the Danish People's Party operates at 0.65%. and the Social Democratic Party works with 0.7 per cent, it is only a question of whether one or two decimal places are placed on. What we use as a starting point are the same figures from the Ministry of Finance. But now it is a time when there are many parties in the blue block who are busy coming down from different trees, so I have to see whether this is something that the Danish People's Party is going to go to the forthcoming negotiations with the government about, starting from the point of view that this is something that is not being shaken up or that it is something that is being negotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111152	Now it is the case that the Danish People's Party never has ultimate demands. But I do not think it is surprising that this is, of course, part of the negotiations that are taking place. We have said this a long, long time ago. After all, we are not a party that wants the Danes to pay as high a tax as possible, but we are a party that, like, stands on several legs in the field of taxation, and one leg is that we are a tax-financed society. Therefore, there must be provision for welfare. Once we have secured it, we would like to look at how we can then use the rest, including, of course, tax cuts. So, yes to the question, absolutely. This is, of course, part of the negotiations that we are going to start after New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111231	Now I also took note of the fact that Mr. René Christensen said that there were some technicalities which were the main reason why the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution as it stands. This is of course interesting, because it means that the Danish People's Party will not get the things they have wanted through in the negotiations, I understand that this is an area that you will consider if we can clear out the technicalities that return visits at a later stage. Is that how it's supposed to be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111302	One of the things that, among other things, is the challenge of the proposal here, is not the intention, but it is among other things. the fact that consumption has to increase by 0.7%. a year. That is to say, how much more money is needed year after year. We would rather talk about there having to be a framework towards 2025 that can be used by. Just to take the year that we are just about to go out of, 2017: There you will find yourself in a situation where you can say: Hey, hey, there is only 0.5 per cent spent.; how are we going to use the last 0.2%?? Otherwise, we will not live up to what is in the legislation and, of course, we will have to live up to the legislation. That's not what's interesting to us. The interesting thing for us is that there is money available, and it is of course also interesting what it is that you spend it on. In other words, one can just take the example of the fact that if there is less spending on refugees, it will lead to less spending in the public sector, and that would, in fact, be very positive. Then you can have a discussion about what to spend the money on, and then you'll be below the 0.7%.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111358	Then it's mr. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111400	Thank you. We know that we are getting older in Denmark, which is good, we live longer, and that also means that there is a need for more hands in the care of the elderly, and so with this proposal we will ensure that there is money in our public welfare in our municipalities to take care of it too. As I understand the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, he has said repeatedly that he is also interested in this. However, when we present the proposal, it is a helping hand for the Danish People's Party because DF has chosen to point out some government parties that have the opposite policy, some want negative growth, others want zero growth, and at least they do not want a growth in the public sector that comes with when we grow older and need more hands in our care for the elderly. It is in this way that the rapporteur must understand this proposal, i.e. as a helping hand to DF. There is a majority, if DF will, in the Folketing to block there being cuts in elderly care year after year, where there are more older, but there are fewer employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111458	I believe that we have a wise government, which knows very well what a majority is down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, and the budget law for 2018 shows that too. There is a public growth rate of 1%. in 2018 just in the area of the elderly. 1⁄2 billion has been set aside. kr. In other words, we need more warm hands when we grow older, more caring older people, and we also need to hire more people out there. You can't do it all with IT solutions and smart solutions and another way of working. When it comes to very close welfare, it is also people who need to be, and I would say that when you are a support party and not in opposition, it is always nice to have many friends, even if the friends you have are in opposition in that way, but it does of course also mean that the position you stand in when you have to negotiate will be stronger, and I would like to sign for that. That is why it is not a shooting down of the proposal; of course we support it, but we cannot vote for it as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111554	Now the situation is just that after two and a half years, while the Danish People's Party has been a support party to the government, we can raise the countboard, and there are 10,000 fewer public employees in our municipalities and regions and states • 10,000 fewer public employees to care for our children and our elderly, teachers etc. This means that while we are going to need more, there are fewer public employees, and that is why we think it must be a gift to the Danish People's Party to have the opportunity to use this majority. That would just mean that we are all the stronger in the negotiations that I understand have moved to after Christmas and New Year, to give big tax cuts, namely to secure this. So can DF say something about whether to give a guarantee to the Folketing that you will not add votes to a tax agreement or an economic policy that goes under the demographic trait?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111653	I would like to say that the proposal here does not ensure that more warm hands are employed in the care of the elderly, but it does, among other things. the dignity billionaire delivered by the Danish People's Party. Among other things, it does. the half-billion which are now being set aside for municipalities. There you have gone in, you have earmarked the money, and you have said: this is going to be used for welfare, it is going to be spent on, among other things. the elderly, where there is a need for more. We have also gone in with the 2018 Finance Act and have said that we need to look at how we can get more full-time employees in the care of the elderly; we need to look at how to reduce sick leave; we need to see how it can become more attractive when it comes to working precisely in the sector where there is a need for the many hands in the care of the elderly. And that is the challenge and not just to drop the money, because it can be used for anything. It doesn't have to give more employees. It may be that you build large beautiful squares, it may be that you do something else out there in the municipalities and move around on the money. We have seen it before that when, unfortunately, you do not earmark them, the money comes into the account on the one hand, but then you sit at the next city council and, on the other, you decide to make some savings in this area. But I really don't think we're so divided about what this is about. To the last question: yes, I can guarantee that we will work to ensure that, of course, we also have the possibility of public growth towards 2025, including in the context of the tax negotiations that are to take place, but we do not go to the negotiations with ultimate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111801	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111803	Thank you and also thank you for the statements made by the rapporteur. If we look at developments in public consumption during the period when the Danish People's Party has been a parliamentary basis for the government, we can see that we have not lived up to the desire for growth of 0.65 or 0.7%. In other words, if we look at the years of the financial laws that have been adopted, we can see that we have not lived up to it, and this is because less has been spent than what had been agreed. It is true that the rapporteur says that things can go up and down and that we should not put all the gunpowder out on the gunfield in December, but somehow, if we really want to do this, we must make sure that too little is spent year after year in relation to what was agreed, that is to say too little to be able to actually keep up with demographic pressure. And it has been, and it has had consequences out there. It is not the case that people, if you go out to a nursing home, say: we have not experienced cuts, we have seen progress. And if you go out to a kindergarten, people don't say, "That's fine." The situation is that there has been pressure and cuts, and this is because the money agreed has not been spent because of fear of sanctions, that is, because of the sanction regime that exists and everything else. So, regardless of how the rapporteur turns and turns it, you have to give an answer to how, if you do not want to vote for this resolution, you will ensure what has not been achieved over the last three years, so that we will not be standing here again in one year's time, and then it has turned out that it was not a 1% growth, but once again only 0.5%.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220111928-2	What is important is that we have municipalities which, like what is decided in here, translate into reality. And it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that we have seen municipalities that have not actually used their funds, not even for service costs. So, the municipalities have actually had the money; the Folketing has granted the money to the municipalities, so that they could use it, but they have then chosen not to use it. It has to be said that if you are in favour of local self-government, there must also be room for a certain right of self-determination out there, but there are some of these pools where, among other things, we are. with the dignity billion and with the next half billion coming, has chosen to earmark them. But I would also like to say that we in the Danish People's Party do not want to turn the municipalities into such administrative communities and that we in this Parliament must sit and be the ultimate link. In fact, I do not believe that citizens will be served by that either. There have just been municipal elections, and it has to be said that citizens also have the opportunity to choose the politicians they want to spend the money. But I can only acknowledge that I have also been astonished that the municipalities are saying that it is so difficult and that they need to cut back, and yet they have not used the funds they have actually been given to them, also for their close welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112035	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112036	We do not need to be so surprised because this is due to the rules that the rapporteur's party itself has voted for in relation to the budget law and the law on expenditure ceilings. For good reason, the municipalities are afraid of being sanctioned if they use just a little too much. That's the reason. That is why we have seen this development, and you cannot come behind and scold the municipalities when you are responsible for it. So if the rapporteur really thinks it seriously that the rapporteur wants a growth in public spending, which ensures that there is money for the elderly who come in these years and need help, actually get the help that other elderly people have received over time, then the rapporteur has a responsibility to ensure that the rules that today mean that you do not use what you should because you are afraid of getting the finance minister's hammer in the form of sanctions are changed. Otherwise, the rapporteur's party has a share of responsibility for the annual under-consumption affecting older people, children and others who need welfare in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112135	In fact, the Danish People's Party did not vote in favour of the Budget Act and it was adopted under the previous government. Then you might ask whether it is the support party that is responsible for a government making such proposals, but I would just like to say that the Danish People's Party has not voted in favour of it. However, we do recognise that the municipalities cannot be just 98 units who live their own lives and just drive out there. Of course, there must also be some form of governance. However, I would like to say that we have not voted in favour of the budgetary ceilings, but we do want the municipalities to have a certain form of governance, and this could also be done in other ways than exactly where the budget law is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112211	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112212	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur says many things in the debate here: we have more elderly people, more care-intensive people, we can treat more and more diseases. There will be pressure on public expenditure. It is good to hear that the rapporteur is fully involved. I also agree entirely with the rapporteur when he says that this is not about how much money you spend, but what you spend it on. But then the rapporteur also says, at the end of the day, something that is enormously right, namely that the room for manoeuvre should then be there if it turns out that you need that money. And that is what this discussion is all about. And that is also what the debate is about when the rapporteur's party is to sit down and negotiate a tax reform after New Year. I am in favour of not adopting what is here, but then I would like to ask the rapporteur: I also believe that the rapporteur says something wise when he says that you should not come forward with the ultimate demands for a debate. What it means for the rapporteur's party to know that you actually have a majority behind you in the Folketing who think it is important that this room for manoeuvre is there if you need it. What will that mean for the rapporteur's party in those negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112310	Well, democracy lives, and it actually lives very well. And it has to be said, as I also started by saying in my rapporteur's speech, that when you look beyond the Parliamentary Chamber, there is actually a welfare majority. I actually sense that when we go beyond that, what to say, the teasing and everything else, we do not want to spend all the money on it among the welfare majority, at least not the majority of the welfare majority. So I actually sense that there is a welfare majority that also has a certain humility in that the money that is needed should be there. It should not be the way I usually say with a picture that there must be golden taps at all care centers. We want to be able to have dignified care for the elderly. When you become a caregiver, there must also be a night watchman. It must be the case that the staff feel that they can use the skills they actually have, so that they can also be allowed to use it in relation to the tasks they have to perform in the municipalities. It should not only be a question of how to meet your budgets. And maybe that's where the biggest challenge is. After all, a municipal leader is a success when the municipal manager has fulfilled the budget, that is to say he has not exceeded the budget. But you may forget to measure what result you have delivered, i.e. what experience it is. I would like to say that this is indeed one of the things that we have also written into the Finance Act this year, which we will be discussing on Friday. We will, among other things. also to look at how to actually measure welfare quality. Nowadays, you have this index 100, where you say you measure the welfare of how much money you spend. After all, we would much rather measure welfare by what the elderly experience, what the relatives experience, what the quality of the primary school is, what the pupils experience, what the parents and individual children experience in the day institutions, what the competences of the children are, also when they are part of a municipal day care institution. So I would like to have a discussion and would like to have a very broad discussion on how we actually measure the quality of welfare. Is it just a question of money, or is it also a question of what the users, the citizens, are experiencing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112500	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112501	However, when we in the Social Democratic Party were so happy to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party at first reading of this proposal make it clear how important it was to ensure the security of welfare, and I am also pleased today to hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party state that the crucial thing is that the room for manoeuvre is there, then we are back in the tax negotiations that need to be. Because you can only spend that money once. And if a large part of the room for manoeuvre is tied in tax breaks with the votes of the Danish People's Party, knowing that in fact there was a majority here in the Danish Parliament who wanted to ensure the welfare, what we can call a welfare majority; it was shown that the rapporteur's words were • it is just nice for us to know quite clearly from the Danish People's Party that the reason why we cannot vote for the resolution here today is not, in other words, that we do not share the ambition that the room for manoeuvre should be there, so that the money goes with the increasing number of older people, all the things the rapporteur himself has mentioned, which are going to push our public finances, and that this is something that the Danish People's Party fully agrees with, and that this is what we are going into the negotiating room after New Year. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112558	Yes, it is true that the Danish People's Party wants it. We are actually in a unique situation, and that is what can also be a little funny when you look at the somewhat chaotic course that has been going on. And the challenge at the moment is, of course, that we actually have room for manoeuvre. We actually have some money, and then we're discussing what we're gonna spend that money on. It's not a discussion about whether to make a lot of deterioration and cut down a lot of places, but it's actually a question of what to use this room for. And there is of course the Danish People's Party happy that there is support, also from other parties outside the government that are not party to the government, to say: Well, then, should you not spend some of this money to ensure that the demographic move towards 2025 is sure you have money for? And these are also the exercises you can do. We want to help reduce the cost of non-Western immigration. What can you do with that money? And it's free for everyone. Some may want tax breaks, some may want more welfare there you may want what you want for the remaining money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112650	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112651	Thank you. The rapporteur said on 12 December in connection with these debates on tax reform: we want a guarantee of how much money should go to welfare so that we can resist the demographic trait. So precisely there is the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party completely agree, and that means that the premise for the negotiations in which the Danish People's Party is involved is that there is a majority in the Folketing. And then what I would like to know is whether that guarantee is still there, because one thing is to negotiate in a situation where there is no majority in the Folketing. Another thing is, if there is a majority in the Folketing for a particular policy, because then it is not a question of putting up with ultimate demands, but a question of making a choice: who are we negotiating with? So, can we actually get what is most important out of these negotiations? Can we get what is most important to us out of these negotiations? That is why we keep going a little bit around this issue, because is it really the most important thing for the Danish People's Party that we get to work with the room in such a way that they say that there is no money for tax cuts until we have covered the demographic trait, that is, until we have made sure that there is enough money for welfare? And since there is a majority in the Danish Parliament, I would like to ask the Danish People's Party if you still have a wish for that guarantee, because we can deliver our part of it. Can the Danish People's Party do that too?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112809	Of course, the Danish People's Party is happy that there are more who support the position that we have, in other words in terms of welfare. Of course we're happy about that. In the practical world, it is the case that you do not go down and make a political majority in the Assembly and then go into negotiations. It doesn't work that way in the real world. Of course, this is the starting point of the Danish People's Party, and it has been for a number of years that we want the welfare society to be supported first. I mean, we're gonna go into these negotiations and we want this 26 billion. kr. Towards 2025. We also want to discuss how we can increase the room for manoeuvre, that is to say to get more free funds, and to discuss what we need the rest for, including, of course, tax cuts. We are not a party that is opposed to those who have the lowest incomes being able to make a little more of going to work. We also want to look at how people outside the labour market can get a boost, and that is one of them. What can be done in debates like this? So, yes, our first priority is, of course, that the welfare society is secured towards 2025. We can then discuss the rest, that is, what room for manoeuvre we have, greater or less than what we know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220112916-2	Well, wishes and wishes. It is in this way that if there are 90 seats, there is a majority and then things can be done. It is not certain that we should do so in connection with a motion for a resolution, but if there are 90 mandates, things can be done. So there are all kinds of other situations where there are no 90 mandates and then you can make all kinds of requests. It's kind of like Christmas: you can make a wish list, and then you can hope that some of it gets through, right? But when you have 90 mandates for something, you can implement it. What is actually a relatively straight forward question to the Danish People's Party is whether you are going to use the 90 mandates or not. There are 90 mandates to cover the demographic move, and then we have abandoned the wish-lists. Then that is where the people have pointed to a majority that wants something specific, and the question is whether you want to use that majority or whether you do not want to use that majority. Somehow it will be a bit hot air if you continue to talk about wishlists when you know that there are 90 mandates. So is it hot air, or do you want to use the 90 mandates?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113017	But there is no doubt, as I also started by saying, that we have a wise government, also in relation to the fact that there are 90 mandates behind the desire for more welfare or no more welfare, because one wants to have the welfare society that we know today and build it up towards 2025. I have no doubt that you are very aware of this, including in the government. So just to take it all the way down to the ground, I would say that you do not go into such a debate with a motion for a resolution and say that you first take part of the debate down in the Chamber, the rest of the debate we then take at the negotiating table. Of course, we take everything at the negotiating table. But there is no doubt about that, and I would like to acknowledge that we are not mad that this motion for a resolution came. That gives us a good backlash, in other words, in relation to the negotiating position we are in when we are negotiating with the government. But of course this is going on in a debate and I would like to say that we are not going to the negotiations with ultimate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113106	Then it's Mrs Christine Antorini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113108	Thank you. When we have the discussion here, it is because the Danish People's Party's rapporteur at first reading, Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, was very positive about the motion for a resolution here and what is happening now is that the Danish People's Party is voting against it. That, of course, is why we are curious about what happened, from being very positive to voting no. I also recognise the premise that a financial law agreement has now been concluded, but I note that the rapporteur says that there is a welfare majority. Yeah, there is only if it's used for something. We note that the desire to be a welfare party did not exactly stick to the resolution here, and that is why we are discussing what is happening in the future. So I would like to hear exactly what the Danish People's Party really wants to guarantee this time, because now there is an opportunity for the welfare majority to become something. What is it that the Danish People's Party enters into the forthcoming negotiations with in relation to a room for manoeuvre that makes it possible for us to actually be sure that the demographic move is preserved?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113207	Now you can't ask questions from up here, but if you chose to say that you would have done this now, what kind of 0.3% were we supposed to pull out of the Finance Act we have made, where there is now a 1% public growth. In 2018? We have, of course, gone beyond what we are talking about here. I know, of course, that it says here, that it does not absolutely have to be 0.7%, but this says something about this welfare majority that is working quite well. On Friday we enter into a Finance Act which actually includes an increase in public spending on precisely those things that the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party agree on. Well, there's gonna be more warm hands. We have helped to support the welfare society that I actually think we are quite proud of across parties. Health is also getting a significant boost, because we have had the 2-percent productivity requirement removed in health care, etc. If there were no majority in favour of these things, they would not happen, and that is why we are simply saying by the Danish People's Party that we accept this motion for a resolution, and we think that this is an excellent motion for a resolution, but of course we are not voting for it, because we are using this as a backlash for the negotiations we are going to have with the government after New Year. That is why we are only voting in favour of the proposal, but we are not voting in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113313	Then it's mr. Jesper Kiel, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113315	I would like to put a question to Mr. René Christensen, who is also in a municipality on a daily basis, as I myself do on a daily basis. Is it not very simple, in other words, that if you support the intention but do not support the proposal, then it is very easy to ensure that the municipalities have the adequate economy for, then it can be said that the demographic pressure is being met by the municipalities' overall service framework increasing every year by 0.7 per cent.? It will be decided in the government's negotiations with the National Association of Municipalities. And it can be said that here the Danish People's Party has the decisive votes in favour of whether it gets through. Will it put pressure on the government and say that there must be a 0.7% increase in the overall service framework of the municipalities? For that is what can ensure that there is affordability to care for the elderly; that there is affordability to the new day nurseries when more children are born. Sir. René Christensen knows that's what it takes. And this year the economy of the municipalities has just not followed demographic pressure, even after that money has been added to the Finance Act. Will this be ensured in the 2019 municipal agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113422	Well, that is our starting point in relation to the tax negotiations we will have in 2018, i.e. when we enter the new year we must secure the framework. It is important to have the frame available, that is, towards 2025. That's 26 billion. kr. That is our starting point, that is to say, the money must be available. And then you have to remember that these 26 billion. kr. Not only is municipal money. Some of this money is government money, too. This is among other things. Police, and that is among other things. Defense, too. You have to remember that this is also part of it. Then I would also like to say that we recognise the contractual system in which KL represents the municipalities and the government represents the state. We in the Danish People's Party do not want to change that system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113505	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113507	Then I'd like to ask Mr. René Christensen, if it is not true that if the municipalities do not have an economy that comes with demographic pressure, then they will have an extra 0.7 per cent. Every year, in autumn's budgets, savings result. Because there have been more elderly people and because more children have been put in the crèche, savings have to be made in some other areas. So I guess in this way, the economy of the municipalities must keep up with the demographic pressure. After all, we can't just hire some more police officers to make up for the fact that there's no money for the care of the elderly. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113538-2	If you look at the demographic move towards 2025, you see that it actually fluctuates over the years. Of course, it also has something to do with how the population composition looks, how old we are, and whether we live longer etc. etc. It can be said that when there is a boom, more children are actually born, and when there is a recession, fewer are born. So that means that such an economic situation may well move out there. What is important to us is that we would like to know from the knowledge we now have that this money is available until 2025, so that there should be no cuts. But you can't say that you can just sit on your hands and everything's gonna be fine. This will still be hard political work, both in state institutions, in the regions and in the municipalities, to have a good service in relation to the citizens, even though 26 billion will be set aside. kr. off.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113625	Then it's mr. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113626	Thank you. The rapporteur seems to agree that we must ensure the welfare we know. The rapporteur says that there must be provision for welfare; that the important thing is that the money is available. Then it is clear that they cannot also be given tax relief. I understand that the Danish People's Party is now planning to start negotiating with the government. But since there is a majority in favour of this, I suppose one can also ask: if the negotiations with the government do not lead to covering the demographic trait, then the Danish People's Party will return to the Assembly Hall and get help to ensure welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113705	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113706	We will probably not first conclude an agreement that does not do so and then have spent the money and then secure a majority that takes some money which has then been spent in advance. That will certainly not be the order. But I think that everyone can hear today, and I also think that the government is well aware that this is one of the things that stands on one side of the block when you start these negotiations. Then I would also like to say that we are in the unique situation, that we are actually talking about using room for manoeuvre. The Danish People's Party also wants to look at how we can increase this room of opportunity. We also have some ideas about what we would like to use a large part of the room for manoeuvre for. This is among other things. to ensure well-being, and there we are very happy to stand and have such a debate here today, where you can hear that there is actually a broad majority in the Folketing who would like to do so. This is, of course, a good approach to starting these negotiations. Then I would also like to say that when you are a support party to a government, you do not start by going down to the Parliamentary Chamber and trying to vote the government down. Then, of course, we'll go into the negotiating room and see if we can't find each other. That is indeed our starting point for the negotiations that we are about to start after New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113809	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113810	It is all a process, and the Danish People's Party must decide for itself. I just want to know if we can count on the Danish People's Party, given that there is now a majority to protect welfare, not making an agreement with the government that does not deliver what is needed to cover the demographic trait.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113831	Well, I cannot conclude at this stage that the government should be opposed to securing welfare towards 2025. That must depend on the negotiations that are coming. I certainly do not want to stand here from Parliament's platform. At any rate, I can only say that, under the previous government, we saw marked cuts in welfare, and I just want to say that we do not want to go back to that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113852	Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113855	Thank you. I would just like to know whether the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can confirm that the room for manoeuvre provided is greater than the amount relating to demographic pressure or migration, so that there is not a either-or, but a both- and; that there is an economic space greater than that envisaged in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113923	Yes, I can confirm that. We are in a very unique situation where the room for manoeuvre is actually greater than the 26 billion. kr. Towards 2025. At the same time, we are also faced with a challenge in relation to the problem of interaction. These are some of the things here that also need to be resolved. So yes, I can confirm that the amount of availability is greater, so there is room for both and. But of course we want these 26 billion. kr. must be available up to 2025 for welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113954	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220113955	I'm glad. Because the debate, which has been so far, has left so much to be desired that it is either-or. I am pleased that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can confirm that, with the room for manoeuvre that has been provided, there is both a means of improving welfare and of resolving, for example, the problems of interaction, as the rapporteur says, and a means of reducing the tax on work so that work pays better.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220114020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220114023	I do not want to go into the debates in this Chamber in this way. But it's absolutely right again that we're in this unique situation, that there's actually a lump sum up to 2025. We look forward to negotiating this in January.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220114037	Then we thank the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220114048	I guess we're getting ready for the vote. The final vote shall be taken and the vote shall be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 45 (S, EL, ALT and SF), against 53 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 5 (RV). In other words, the motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171220114151	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Friday 22 December 2017, at 2 pm. 08:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
