ParlaMint-DK_20170210100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for Culture (Mette Bock): Bill no. L 134 (Proposal for a law amending the law on library fees. René Gade (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 69 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on reduced VAT rates and increased tax credit for repairs and maintenance). Susanne Eilersen (DF), Jakob Sølvhøj (EL), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 70 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Law on Municipal and Regional Elections). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100101	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100141	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100216	The Social Democratic Party would like to support the improvements in seafarers' rights, which are the content of this bill. Seafarers are now treated in the same way as other employees when it comes to information and consultation in relation to the warning of redundancies to a greater extent and in relation to the transfer of undertakings. There has been no critical consultation response. On the contrary, both the Shipowners' Association and the trade union organisations support the changes, as expected, which are implemented following decisions taken in Brussels. Anything else would also be strange, as the draft law is first and foremost common sense. The new opportunities that the Internet offers us with the opportunity to meet over Skype, to be in constant dialogue by e-mail and to receive documents and attachments, make it quite natural to modernise or completely remove the special rules that have been applied to seafarers in a number of employment matters. It also seems natural and reasonable that the law on the transfer of undertakings now also applies to seafarers, such as: maritime confidence-holders are also guaranteed a proper legal position and information. Social democracy supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100313	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100326	Thank you, President. This is a relatively small bill, but it is of great importance because it equates seafarers with other employees in the context of information and consultation and involvement in European works councils in the context of early warning and in the context of dismissal, transfer of undertakings and such things. As it is quite natural that they should of course have the same rights as other employees, the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100356	Thank you. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100402	Thank you. With L 112, which we are dealing with here, we are following the adoption by the European Parliament and the Council of an EU directive in the field of labour and employment law. As the previous rapporteurs have so well examined, the bill ensures that crew members on seagoing ships have the same opportunity to participate in information and consultation processes as other employees. This can be done on the basis of technological developments which enable seafarers to be compared with other workers. Of course, we can only welcome that. So, overall, this is a legislative proposal implementing an EU directive that gives seafarers better rights, and of course the Left can support that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100454	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100505	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can only support this. You have to say better late than never. It has been a mistake from the start that these seafarers have not also been included in the same opportunities for consultation and opportunities in relation to the European Works Councils. We must then say, and the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party also said, that this is a very small legislative proposal. If we look at the huge problems in shipping, in terms of guaranteeing the rights of seafarers, pay and employment conditions, etc., then it is certainly not something that solves in any way the huge problem we have with DIS, which allows shipping companies to fly off to other countries and thus avoid the normal obligations in terms of drawing up agreements. This has meant that there are virtually no Danish seamen left on these seagoing ships. So it is such a restrained optimism that I can express, but of course it is right and good and important for the seafarers who are to have these opportunities as well. We can only support that. When we look at the issue of the transfer of undertakings, I think that a closer analysis of the somewhat intricate provisions here will show that it is a very, very modest effect, and it also raises again, we can say, the discussion that the opportunities for shipping companies to escape, as well as some obligations, are far too good in this area. I am well aware that a small, fixed amendment to this draft law cannot solve this problem, but I think I will have to ask some questions in order to find out exactly what the consequences are. I will not put them orally in this Chamber to the Minister. I think we can do this in writing. I guess it's for the best. It will then not affect Enhedslisten's position on the bill. Of course we will vote in favour of it. There are some important though small improvements for the sailors here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100710	Thank you. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100717	The draft law implements EU rules so that seafarers are more equal to other groups in the labour market. This applies in terms of information, consultation, the possibility of involvement in European works councils and in relation to the warning of dismissal and the transfer of businesses. We find it difficult to have any objections to this, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100745	Thank you. The next one is sir. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100759	Thank you. The alternative supports the equal treatment of seafarers' employees with other employees. I think the other rapporteurs have presented the good arguments very well, so instead of repeating everything, I would just like to say that the alternative supports this small bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100818	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100821	I'll follow suit and be brief. Of course, we also support in the Radical Left that seafarers should have the same rights and opportunities as others. Then I just have a little peep to say that seafarers are workers across borders, so it is good that we have the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100843	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100850	I am not going to prolong the debate unnecessarily, but simply say that in the SF we naturally support the equality that lies in it. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100902	It seems that the Conservative rapporteur is not here. Then we move on to the Minister for Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210100912	I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments on the legislative proposal under discussion and for the debate here today. After all, the bill is the result of discussions which have taken place with the social partners under the auspices of the Ministry's Implementation Committee in the field of employment and labour law. I am pleased that agreement could be reached between employees and employers on how to implement the directive on which the bill is based. Due to special conditions applicable to working at sea, seafarers have been exempted from some of the general rules applicable to employees in general. In the light of developments and, in particular, improved communication opportunities, the general rules can now be applied in whole or in part to seafarers. In my view, it is very positive that seafarers are now more closely compared with other employees and that the parties have been able to agree on how this can be done in practice by law. That is why I am also looking forward to further consideration by the Committee on Employment and, of course, I note that Enhedslisten has questions that they wish to put in writing. I will make sure that we answer them, of course. However, thank you once again for the broad support for the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210101027	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210101042	The debate is open, and it is the Minister for Employment first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210101116	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution we are debating here today in the Parliamentary Assembly, the SF will abolish the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and thus roll back the whole first phase of the job reform that has been carried out under the former V government, a job reform that has otherwise ensured that it is now worthwhile to work and that there is a difference between being on passive transfer in relation to being part of the labour market. The SF justifies the motion for a resolution by stating that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule include: This means more poverty, more postponements and more homeless people, and more cash aid recipients are forced into rural areas and out of cities. I would argue at all times that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are both sensible, reasonable, socially balanced and important tools for getting more cash benefits in jobs for the benefit of the individual, for the children and also for Danish society. In short, the picture that SF is trying to draw from the situation is not substantiated, and I shall now look forward to further clarification. Our society does not need us to roll back the job reform. Our society, on the other hand, needs us to act and take advantage of the prosperity and increasing employment in Danish society to get even more into the Danish labour market. That is common sense, but it is not least important social policy that all those who can and have the opportunity to work have the opportunity to do so. I also think it is important that, during today's debate, we remember why the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule were introduced and how the new rules are screwed together so that there is the right balance. Basically, the ceiling on cash benefits is about being able to pay for work. There must always be an incentive to choose an active working life. The background is also that at one and the same time we have too many cash aid recipients and positive developments in the labour market with increasing employment. We believe that this is untenable. I would like to remind you that the challenges we faced before the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule came into force were relatively significant. The number of people in the cash benefits system increased from approx. 125,000 full-time persons in the third quarter of 2011 to 150,000 full-time persons in the third quarter of 2016. This is an increase of 20 per cent and an increase seen particularly among non-western immigrants and descendants. In the last five years, the number of non-western immigrants in the cash assistance system has increased by approx. 23,000 people from the third quarter of 2011 to the third quarter of 2016. This corresponds to an increase of approx. 77% During the same period, the number of married couples on cash benefits increased by 84 per cent, from over 4,500 married couples in September 2011 to 8,400 in September 2016. Again, unfortunately, we are talking about the fact that non-western immigrants and descendants are very over-represented. Almost nine out of ten married couples on cash benefits are not Western immigrants and descendants. In parallel with the increase in the number of cash benefits recipients, employment is beginning to increase from 2013, especially in the private sector. Since the low point in March 2013 and until November 2016, the number of employees in the private sector has increased by 135,000 persons. That's very pleasing. It is also something that fortunately means that things are going well in the private sector, and it is also a clear goal for the government that more cash aid recipients should have a share in the increase in the Danish labour market. That is why we have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits and a 225-hour rule. With the ceiling on cash aid, we have ensured, in a good and balanced way, that it is actually worth taking a job without compromising on the dependency base and the safety net that we must, of course, also provide for people who do not have a job for a period of time. A typical family of cash benefits continues to receive a reasonable amount of total public benefits and subsidies, even if they are covered by the ceiling on cash benefits. I do not think it makes sense to talk about poverty when a typical married couple with two children, both adults on cash benefits, receive a total of DKK 400 000. total public benefits and subsidies. This corresponds to an income after tax of DKK 23,600. a month. I think we can certainly be familiar with that. The Government therefore does not recognise SF's argument that the ceiling on cash benefits creates poverty and poor children. We still have a high level of performance in Denmark, both before and after the ceiling on cash benefits. A good balance has been found between a reasonable level of dependency on the one hand and a real incentive to take a job on the other. At the same time, with only a few hours of employment per week, it is possible to work completely free from the effects of both the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Especially for children, it is also important that their parents get started and are part of the labour market to some extent, so that they can help to be positive role models for their children. Almost two out of three young people in the cash benefits system come from families where at least one of the parents has also been in the cash benefits system at some point in the last 25 years. Unfortunately, this suggests that cash benefits are to a certain extent passed on, and we owe it to them to break down, not least for the sake of the children. The best way to break social inheritance is when children grow up in a home where parents go to work instead of hanging onto the cash benefits system year after year. Nor does the Government accept SF's argument that the ceiling for cash benefits and the 225-hour rule lead to more delays and homeless people. It is true that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule mean that there are citizens who have reduced their benefits and thus have less paid out every month than in the past. This will undoubtedly be felt in a tight household budget, particularly for citizens who live in expensive apartments and have therefore also received more housing support and special support. Therefore, if the citizens concerned are not able to get jobs, they will have to give priority to everyday life in order to make the economy coherent. However, there is no evidence that there is a clear link between lower income and more deferrals. Detentions of tenants are a complex problem and the studies carried out in this area show that it is not possible to point out a particular reason why tenants are put out of their homes and that low income is not in itself a determining factor for exposure. The risk of being evicted from housing is more related to an inability to manage the overall economy. Figures from the Danish Court of Justice, which the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing sent to the Danish Parliament on 30 January, show that the doomsday prophecies that the number of postponements would explode, what was discussed in connection with the introduction of the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, have fortunately not become reality. The figures provided by the Court of Justice also confirm the survey for some of the country's largest housing companies, which appeared at the beginning of the year, which shows that the number of deferrals since 1 October corresponds to normal. That some people on public support choose to move out of the cities, for example. to some of our rural communities is not a new development. It is a development that we have seen over the past many years and it is fairly constant. Here, too, it is important for me today to state that this development has existed even before the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. Housing consumption can be included in the daily priorities of all families when income is reduced, but it is and remains an individual choice how much one wants to spend on one's housing costs. If cash aid recipients choose to give priority to their economy in a way where they move to cheaper housing to get more air in the economy, then I think that is quite fair and common sense, but I do not think this is the same as drawing the conclusion that the ceiling on cash aid is forcing people away from the larger cities. If anyone chooses to move, it is of course important that they can get a job where they move. The Government's solution to the challenges of growth and employment will never be to remove the incentive and balance of our cash assistance system. Instead, we are concerned about creating growth and development in all parts of Denmark, because growth is now the basis for job security, economic security and, above all, for our companies to get better, and fortunately, the development is also in the right direction. The growth in employment is broadly based across the country, the latest economic report shows again. That is something we can welcome. Of course, we do not escape the fact that in future there may also be parts of the country where, at times, boilers are less busy than in other parts, and where perhaps not all jobs are equally low on the tree, if you may say so. This does not mean, however, that people cannot find a job if they move to areas and that municipalities cannot help, because fortunately neither the labour market nor the help of the job centre at the municipal border stop. So let me finally pick up on my concluding remarks here too. The arguments put forward by the SF in the motion for a resolution simply do not stand up. The ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are a balanced solution and also a necessary condition for the individual's financial sense to be in jobs as far as possible rather than on public support. With the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, the government has ensured that citizens are given strengthened incentives to get to work and still have a reasonable amount of available money left. There are indications that the new rules have got off to a good start and have also had the desired effect. Just before New Year's, the Ministry of Employment has carried out an analysis with several figures pointing in the right direction. Firstly, the analysis shows that the share of small jobs next to cash benefits has increased by around 25%. in the period from March to September 2016, and secondly, the analysis shows that the number of persons in the cash benefits system has decreased by approximately 4,000 people of 1⁄2 years from approx. 160,000 people in April to approx. 156,000 people in September. It is important to emphasise that it is not a final impact analysis of the impact of job reform, but the figures indicate that there is a positive development on the way where cash benefits recipients appear increasingly to get their feet into the labour market. I have no doubt that developments are not only due to cyclical developments, but also, of course, to the initiatives taken by the government. The government's objective remains that work should pay off, and we certainly do not stop work on the first phase of job reform. The government is also now presenting a job premium which will mean that we are now giving a greater incentive to move from passive transfer to active labour market employment. This will further increase the incentive to enter jobs noticeably. And, as the government's basis shows, we also plan to lighten the tax at the bottom so that it pays better to work. In other words, there is a clear blue thread in government policy and a clear ambition to move more people from public support into the labour market. That is why, of course, the government cannot support the resolution and pull away an essential foundation that ensures that working pays off. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102322	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102327	Thank you, Minister. The Minister notes that the number of recipients of cash benefits has increased, and that is true. But will the Minister confirm what emerges from an answer I have received that there are two important reasons for this: we do not know them all, but there are two important reasons, and one is that the door has been closed to higher benefits, that is, tightened up there, and the other is that the previous government, the RSSF government, together with the Enhedslisten, abolished some poverty benefits? Then I would like to refer to the whole of the Minister's argument for the ceiling on cash benefits. After all, the Minister himself has given the material to show is completely hollow and false. I have asked how many people have actually been affected by the 225-hour rule and the minister's answer is that it is almost twice as many as was expected in the bill. That means it doesn't hold a meter. These people have been significantly reduced in income and yet they have not got into work. On the contrary, there are even more in the group that has not entered work. So it doesn't add up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102443	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102445	So, the good thing about this debate in relation to many other debates in this Parliament is that we are totally politically divided here, and that is the beauty of discussing politics. What Finn Sørensen mentions about some answers I have given to the Parliament's Employment Committee is quite right, and I even think it was to Mr Sørensen. Finn Sørensen: that the number of persons covered by the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule is greater than was estimated when treatment was being carried out in the Parliamentary Chamber. But it does not do to me that this is a social disaster or that it is wrong. I think this is precisely what I have been arguing for in my relatively long answer to this motion for a resolution, which means that there is now a difference between those who are on passive transfers and those who are on the labour market. And it has to be said that we are just deeply divided, that is, in relation to who should have, if you may say so, the opportunity to have more for himself. That is where I think it is important to make it clear that there must be a noticeable difference for those in employment. I think it is both good, healthy and right that as many people as possible are part of our labour market. I think that is also something about the social cohesion which is so important in this society and which I know that the Enhedslisten has sometimes been concerned about, including here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102607	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102609	Now I have not asked the Minister to deal with a social policy disaster, because I know that the Minister's head is not in a position to include such concepts at all. I would just ask the Minister to address the fact that it is argued that if we take some benefits from some unemployed people who are already poor, they will get to work. However, the Minister's own figures show that it does not hold up the number of people affected by the 225-hour rule, and thus has not been able to get 225 hours of work to meet that requirement, has almost doubled after the reform was introduced. It just shows that it's nonsense to say that people get to work when you take some money from them. Wouldn't the Minister like to deal with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102657	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102659	As a general rule, I would like to relate to everything Finn Sørensen says. Of course, I get a little upset that Finn Sørensen says my head isn't able to hold that much. You cannot necessarily say that is wrong, but you cannot make a truth assessment of it like this from today's platform. I can only refer again to what I have said, Finn Sørensen, which I think is absolutely crucial. We are now entering a very good economic situation for Denmark. We must ensure that more people get away from cash aid and into the labour market. We have over 30,000 ready-to-enter the labour market, and we therefore owe it to them to do the service that it is better today to be on the labour market than to be part of the cash assistance system. And that's exactly what this 225-hour rule and the cash benefits ceiling ensures.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102746	Thank you. And then we shall endeavour to be so kind to each other and stick to the political, I would say to Mr. Finn Sørensen. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102755	I will try to follow on from the issues and look at the legislation we have adopted. At the time it was adopted, it was expected that approx. Nine thousand people would be affected by the 225-hour rule, and in December we saw that it was 14,100. It must mean something for the Minister to put forward a legislative proposal on a basis which is now being found to be dramatically different shortly after that. Surely that will have the effect of the Minister's thinking: should we not revise the law? Or what about the many women on maternity leave who are affected by the law? If you think of the intentions of the law that economic pressure should bring some of these people into the labour market, what is the point of hitting women on maternity leave? Well, I guess they're not moving because of a financial incentive, since they're home to give birth or care for their young children. That doesn't make much sense, does it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102901	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210102902	Thank you. In relation to the discussion that Finn Sørensen also wanted in Parliament, about what the effect is, it was an estimate at the time when the rules that we are discussing here in the Danish Parliament were adopted today. We can also welcome the fact that, as I said in my reply, there are several of the cash benefits recipients who are able to find small jobs there has been an increase. And I have no doubt that if we now make good use of the economic progress that is taking place everywhere in Denmark at the moment, there will also be a great many of those who are potentially covered by the 225-hour rule or the cash aid ceiling, which we can help to help out in employment. And so far, at least, I have taken the view that this is also an area that the SF actually cares about, namely that having a job is very good. This is not least an important social policy instrument. And for me, it is therefore absolutely crucial that we make a greater social cohesion in this society and ensure that the recipients of cash benefits, for example. job preparation is now being able to get out and fill out the job openings that enter the labour market. And I would like to say that this is precisely the reason for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103020	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103022	Yes, but I would immediately confirm the Minister's view that for SF it is extremely important in all contexts to ensure that people get to work not only as a social policy measure, but in general in relation to the life that people are offered by having a job. But I also think the Minister should reflect on the fact that, although it was an estimate and I agree that it was an estimate, when we dealt with the bill, there is such a marked distance as from 9,000 to 14,100 as it turned out to be a few months later. So I guess you have to review it and say, was it on the basis that we thought it was okay to adopt the bill? I would also ask the Minister to give a specific answer: was it really the Minister's opinion that we should hit, as we can see now, 1,500 women on maternity leave? So, what is the argument for trying to push women into the labour market? They are, of course, free from the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103107	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103109	In relation to the discussion about it with an estimate, I would actually like to sign that Karsten Hønge now also admits that yes, it was an estimate. This did not necessarily get the impression when the previous questioner, Finn Sørensen, asked the question. That was And what we are going to see in 2017 is precisely that, I am fully convinced that with the job openings that are coming, and also with the economic progress that is, if that is the case, it is possible for them to find jobs, which means that they are not affected by the 225-hour rule. So the whole premise for the SF's discussion on whether this is a social policy disaster, I simply do not agree with it. I believe that you have a reasonable dependency, even if it is the case that you are on maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103154	Thank you. There are no further brief comments to be made to the Minister. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103215	Thank you. Now the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule have worked for some time. It was obviously very important for the government and DF to introduce this, although virtually everyone could see that it would not give very many in work and that it would create increased poverty, especially among families with children. Unfortunately, we have also seen that it has gone in the wrong direction, and in the direction that we all on the left expected it to go and also continued when we had the matter in the Chamber six months ago and also for various consultations. 33,000 have received a reduction in their benefit, which affects more than 38,000 children under the age of 18, and the Labour Movement's Employment Council has calculated that approx. 7,000 children will live below the poverty line. Doctors start sounding the alarm as they see that more cash aid recipients can't afford medication. Children's gardens start calling for clothes for families who can't afford clothes, and there are more families who get Christmas help. Lots of stories about the negative consequences for a lot of people. Unfortunately, I believe that the negative consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits that we saw back in the '00s are being repeated. That is why it is also a very good and important agenda, which the SF tackles with this proposal, including an agenda which we have, incidentally, addressed ourselves on the last many times we have called for consultation. Having said that, unfortunately, not so much has changed in this area since the last time. The government and the Danish People's Party adhere to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. At any rate, I have heard nothing else, and if this is to be changed, then there must be an election and a new majority. We can, of course, put forward all the resolutions we want here without it actually having any meaning at all. Social democracy has always been a party that has fought with beaks and claws against social heritage. Therefore, when the Social Democrats abolished poverty benefits when we came into government, it was primarily because of the belief that not only people were made poorer but also created a poorer society both in the short and the long term. That is why our approach to cash assistance negotiations has been clear. Of course, working in Denmark must pay off. I do not think that many oppose it, but the price must not become a poorer society. We in the Social Democratic Party will not be involved in this. That is why we support 100% of the positions in this proposal, but, as I said before, we cannot and will not promise anything, because we do not know what the Prime Minister leaves of horrors and a lack of economy when and if we come to one day.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103503	Thank you. I just had to flip). It's fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103507	I've got half a page more, President. But if you have listened to us, if you have seen what we have voted and seen what we have done over time in this area, you cannot be in doubt about our wishes and intentions for these people and our wishes and intentions for the ceiling of cash aid and the 225-hour rule, unless you would like to be in doubt. That is why I can only use Mette Frederiksen's words at our own Congress, which was an answer to the LO President's wish to change it after an election in which she says: "List me if we do not look at it when we get to it. I think we can also look at many of the other quotes I have had, from various consultations and in the Chamber, where I also said a lot of the same thing. So a rounding on that is that we cannot accept the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. We will fight at all times against the inequality it creates. Moreover, we have always done so, and we will continue to do so, but neither will we, nor can we, promise anything, and that is why we can abstain from voting on the proposal. I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103618	That sounds good. Then there are a number of brief comments, first Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103624	Thank you for that, Mr President, and thank you for that. Leif Lahn Jensen on behalf of the rapporteur. I am simply a little in doubt, for Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, on the one hand, says that this is something that causes increased poverty, Mr President. Leif Lahn Jensen wants to combat the inequality created by the ceiling on cash aid, but at the same time says Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Leif Lahn Jensen that work must be worthwhile. That is where my confusion arises, because the Social Democratic Party was once a working party fighting for the rights of the working people. Now people seem to be fighting for the rights of the non-working people. If you want to fight inequality, must there be a difference between working and not working or what? I'm just confused. Should it pay to work, or do you want to fight inequality? You can't both at once. So which one is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103724	Yeah, but it's actually like that, and I don't know if Mr. Knox... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen remembers that when we were in government, we actually did a tax reform supported by the Left, after which it was actually worth working. And when it is fully implemented by 2020, working can be a great deal. That means that we already took some steps there, in which we just made sure that these people got more for themselves. And that actually means that we took a bigger step than what both the two previous governments with Anders Fogh Rasmussen and Lars Løkke Rasmussen did. That's where we made a difference. So, yes, we are in complete agreement. Of course, working must pay off. Work must always be worthwhile, and so must it, and it must also be able to do so. However, we do not want to compromise on the fact that the ceiling on cash aid and the 225-hour rule also create poverty, because we also believe that while it is important that there is room for work, it is important that people have a decent and good life. And what's the problem with this cash-aid ceiling is that it hits people who don't have the opportunity to get to work. It hits the sick, it hits the disabled, and we think that is unfair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103834	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103836	Well, the latter is notoriously wrong, because then you have to be on another service and not on cash benefits, so that's not right. But I am glad that we agree that inequality is not necessarily bad. So the inequality with the tax reform in which we supported the Social Democratic Government, I understand, is good, while other inequality is bad. So it kind of depends on how it happens. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen talks about the possibility of living a dignified life. Is it impossible for a couple, two adults who have two children, to live a dignified life for an amount of DKK 23,200. a month? Is that impossible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103918	Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210103920	Now I heard Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. I know that we don't often see Mr. Knox. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen in the Chamber, when there is something in the field of employment, and I am glad that the rapporteur is here today. But that is actually correct. 80% of all those who are affected by this are actually ill or disabled and have no chance of getting started. And that is what Enhedslisten has tried to do with an amendment that we have also supported. They are being hit, and that is what we think is really wrong, and that is what we also want to say, among other things. create this poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104006	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104011	I have heard Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen interprets the Socialist text in such a way that you are afraid to be caught in or bound by some electoral promises because you think you have had some bad experiences with it. Wasn't the experience that the mistake wasn't that you had made promises, but the mistake was that you couldn't fulfill them? That's one. The second is that, unfortunately, it seems that some time will pass until we have the next election. So what would prevent the Social Democrats from voting in favour of this motion for a resolution which is now being put to the vote and which is not a question of what the Social Democrats will think after an election? It is here and now that the Socialists are asked to take a position on a resolution which will resolve some problems here and now; it will not be postponed until after elections.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104055	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104056	I've got to tell Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge: Stop it! Everyone in this room knows. It may be that people in the living rooms do not know, people may have a great hope that it will change. Come on! Everyone in this room, including Mr. Karsten Hønge, who has made this proposal, knows that there is no majority for this. Everyone in the Chamber, including the journalists, knows that no matter what we vote, it is over there with them, it has to be changed. It is over with the Left or the Danish People's Party. Well, then, sir. Karsten Hønge make all the suggestions he wants. We can say everything we want, we can do everything we want, but if that majority does not change, it will not happen before an election. So that's it, sir. Karsten Hønge should have done instead, was that he should have taken hold of the Danish People's Party and made an agreement with them before this, so the majority was in place. Then we had a completely different situation. So it does not really matter what I say here from the platform and what we do because there is a majority in favour of it. That is why I would rather say: let us keep calling for consultation, let us keep bringing all the bad stories, let us keep putting pressure on the government, and then when we get to, we sit down together and look at this, and then we make better arrangements to help these people just as we did last time when we got to where we abolished the poverty benefits. I think that is much more constructive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104211	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104213	Yeah, yeah. It's not hard to recognize Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's statement that there is a need for more parties to support it in order for it to be implemented. But do I really understand the attitude of the Social Democrats that, if I had got the Danish People's Party on this motion for a resolution in advance, the position of the Social Democrats would have been different? However, it was an advanced way of conducting politics, that is, that the Social Democratic Party deposits its position with, for example, the Danish People's Party. So if I had accepted the rapporteur's request and had done what the rapporteur calls for, namely an agreement in advance, the Social Democrats would have told us today that they had voted in favour of the resolution. However, that's a pretty fancy way of conducting politics, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen. Politics is about more than one thing with votes. It is also about sending out the political signal of voting in favour of a resolution like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104257	Thank you. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104258	Politics is about creating a majority. Politics is about producing results, and that is what we do by creating a majority. Politics is not about putting forward resolutions that are not majority in favour, hoping that they will send out some political signals. Politics is not only to send political signals, politics is also a majority, and I just want to say that we will create that majority after a parliamentary election. But I think everyone in here knows that this isn't going to happen because the Danish People's Party and the government won't do it if we jump and hit the drum or whatever. That is why I say: let us, however, continue to exert that pressure and then put ourselves together after the next elections and agree on something.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104332	Sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104335	Thank you. The main point of the rapporteur's speech was, of course, that the rapporteur will not promise anything. That is what remains, and it is surely disappointing when the rapporteur represents the leading opposition party in the Danish Parliament. So, the rapporteur will not promise anything today, and then the question is: why is it that the Social Democrats will not be more cash when it comes to implementing their policies when it comes to abolishing the ceiling on cash aid, which I understand is the policy of social democracy? Because it can't be about money. This cannot be the case, because in other parts of the political landscape, social democracy is in the process of distributing a great deal of money and money, which we cannot all necessarily see. This is happening, for example. In relation to the landowners, and I think that's a great thing. But here, you don't want to promise anything. What is the reason why the Social Democratic Party is not going to promise to abolish the ceiling on cash aid here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104446	I would say that it was still fresh enough to say that the heart of my speech was that we would not promise anything. It only took about two sentences to say it. Everything else was about something completely different. I just pointed out that we were opposed to the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule and that we believe that it creates poverty. You've heard me say all this before, so I don't think it's okay to create tough conditions for sick people and disabled people and families with children. It was kind of central. But of course you can hear what you want. Why aren't we gonna make promises now? It is simply because we do not know whether we can keep it. Do we know if the Prime Minister has spent all the money, just as we saw the last time there was a bourgeois government? There was actually 0 kroner. In the box, and there were plenty of things to clean up. Now you're messing with 2025 plans. You are messing with later withdrawal, with SU savings and with tax reductions. You're messing with a lot of things. How much is to be cleaned up? How much money do we have to do good with? What can we actually do? To that I just want to say: no, I promise not that I will do it, but please note that I promise not to do it either. That is why it may well change. I just can't promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104554	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104555	This could also be due to the fact that, in essence, the Social Democratic Party agrees that when you are a single parent and have two children, you have 17,600 DKK. after tax, and that when you are a cash couple with two children you have over 23,000 kroner. after tax every month. This may also be due to the fact that the Social Democratic Party basically agrees that it is a reasonable level of dependency. If they are not, then the question is how much higher the amounts must be before the Social Democracy is satisfied.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104641	I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen, that if we agreed with it, as Mr. Hans Andersen now says that, firstly, we would not have abolished poverty benefits when we were in government. Secondly, we would not have voted against it in this Chamber either, and thirdly, we would not have tabled a host of amendments even for the third reading. I wouldn't have stood here and thundered and told you how awful what you've been doing was if I agreed, sir. Hans Andersen says now. That would be completely weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104708	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104712	Thank you. The rapporteur cannot understand why we are in doubt about the attitude of the Social Democratic Party to abolish this ceiling when we get a majority together. The rapporteur cannot understand that. I cannot understand why the rapporteur cannot understand this, because the rapporteur himself stands by saying that this is a proposal from the SF, with which the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party fully agree. Not a single critical comment has been made on the proposal that is on the table here today and that we have to deal with. Nevertheless, the rapporteur will not vote in favour of it. If you then hear the rapporteur's explanatory statement, it is no wonder that we are in doubt, because the rapporteur says: we do not know what accidents Lars Løkke Rasmussen has done when we come to the table after the next election. That is absolutely right. But that uncertainty has not prevented the Social Democrats from lending the property owners 30 billion. kr., so that those who are homeowners may feel a sense of security that was the argument that was used in that they should not leave their house. But the same security will not be given to the single mother who lives in general housing. Can the rapporteur not understand that we are in doubt? And why will the rapporteur not help to eradicate that doubt? It's very simple. It's just saying that you're voting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104830	Thank you. And Lars Løkke Rasmussen is prime minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104832	I said in my rapporteur's speech that I do not think there is any doubt about our wishes and intentions in this area, unless one would prefer to believe that Mr. Finn Sørensen prefers Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen makes a sport out of doubt. I don't understand why you're in doubt, because I know that sir... Finn Sørensen was very active with me in connection with this both by consultation and everything else, and Mr. Finn Sørensen heard everything I said. Unless, sir. Finn Sørensen was sleeping at the meetings, what I never think Finn Sørensen is doing, so is Mr. Sørensen. Finn Sørensen has no doubt about what I mean in this area. And if he is anyway, it's because sir. Finn Sørensen will It is clear that when we are invited to housing negotiations, we will of course make some requests in the residential area. You can just invite us to cash aid negotiations now, so you just have to see, then we will also come up with our proposals on what we want in the field of cash aid. You just have to do that. The minister kind of called me at the time when this cash aid ceiling was to be made, and then I also told you what we could do and what we couldn't do. By the way, we didn't come to the table. So it is quite simple: the next time we sit in consultation together, so note exactly what I say, I will say to Mr Beazley. Finn Sørensen. Then it may be, sir. Finn Sørensen better remembers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104948	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210104950	I have no doubt that the Social Democratic Party is opposed to the ceiling on cash aid. After all, we have worked together against it and the Social Democrats have voted against it. That's not what we're discussing. What we are discussing is why the Social Democrats will not commit themselves politically here and now, what they are doing by voting for such a proposal to abolish it, along with the rest of us. We need only the votes of the Social Democrats. Then we can promise the voters that we will abolish it. For the Radicals and the other parties in the opposition have also said: yes, we will do away with that. That is what we are discussing, and that is where the rapporteur is constantly slipping around like the cat about the hot porridge. I would just like to say that it is very important what the Social Democrats are voting here, because it is a question of lighting a little light in the dark for the many people involved and for the many employees who are afraid to get into that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105039	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105040	What has happened here is really big. I heard Mr. Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten say: I have no doubt that S is against the cash benefits ceiling. I'm super happy about that. Because I've been in doubt about that, actually. Finn Sørensen knew or didn't know. So I'm super fond of that statement, and I really have to remember that. Then there is just the difference between Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten that we do not just promise and promise a lot without actually having the funding. We simply need both to have the funding in place and to ensure that it is politically feasible. We don't know that. We do not know whether this can be done politically after an election. That is why I just want to say to all the people who are out there: whatever this resolution ends up with, it doesn't matter. Now let's see what we did last time, and let's get together next time and make sure these people get a better life. I hope we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105126	Thank you. Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105129	Thank you. I noticed that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen spoke about the fact that there are sick and disabled people in the cash aid system, and I agree with Leif Lahn Jensen that they should not be there at all. But why are they there, and why may they be affected by the 225-hour rule and the ceiling on cash benefits? It is precisely because of the legislation which Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's party did in connection with the early and flexible job reform with resource sequences. They cannot be allowed to get clarification so that they can get away from the system. So, in case mr. Leif Lahn Jensen went back to his own party and said that there should be clarification for those who go there and which the Social Democratic Party does not think should be on cash aid and that the process of resource change so that they can get clarification, we would have come a long way. Because I'm assuming that mr. Leif Lahn Jensen believes that it is okay that people on cash benefits who are healthy and bodily should of course enter the labour market and that they should also take the hours they can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105225	Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105226	Now I simply know the Danish People's Party best when they try to wash their hands in front of everyone else. It is when the Danish People's Party is best. Because what happened when you had to make this cash-aid ceiling? The Danish People's Party knew very well that all these people would be affected by it. I know sir. Bent Bøgsted so well that I know that he knows a lot about this area, and the Danish People's Party knew very well that if you introduced this cash aid ceiling, these people were hit. This means that the Danish People's Party could just have said to the government: we are taking these people out of that legislation. Sir. Finn Sørensen also tabled an amendment in the Chamber, which took away all those who could not get to work. The Danish People's Party did not vote in favour of this, it voted against it. We voted in favour. Already when we were discussing the bill, the Danish People's Party could have helped get these people out. So don't do this, sir. Bent Bøgsted, to send the buck over to us, because the Danish People's Party has the solution to get these people out of that system. They could have done so, and the Danish People's Party can still do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105330	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105333	Now it is so that it is not the Danish People's Party that stands on the platform and weaves itself out of something. The Danish People's Party stands by this bill, but it's Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, who says that the Social Democratic Party will not give a guarantee to the SF, who are the proposers, that social democracy will help to abolish the ceiling on cash aid and the 225-hour rule if they come in. They say you're gonna wait and see. Is there perhaps some clues that scare, from the time when you were in government with Radicals and SF, so you dare not promise anything in advance? It would be so easy for Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen to speak out clearly and say: this is where the Social Democrats want to get rid of it. You don't. Is it perhaps because the Social Democrats, if they come to the government, will still keep the ceiling on cash aid and the 225-hour rule? That is the way it can be interpreted when you do not get a clear message from Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105423	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105425	I'd say that already, sir. Bent Bøgsted then gave me a very good idea of what I can ask of questions to Mr. Bent Bøgsted, when he comes up here right after me, so thank you for that. I would just like to say once again: there is no doubt that we are against this, but we just cannot, and we just do not want to promise anything, because we do not know what it is we have of tasks when we get to. But again I can say that it should be noted that Mette Frederiksen has said, 'Listen to me if we do not look at it.' And I have also said to the red friends on this page: let's look at it when we get to it. But we need a new majority, because those on the other side just won't. And, of course, we have them until after an election that we can hope will come soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105509	Here you go. Sir. Søren Gade, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105511	Thank you for that, President. After all, this is a debate that brings us all the way around. We stand at the ceiling on cash aid, and I am, in fact, pleased to belong to a government that thinks of the next generation and not necessarily of the next parliamentary elections. There are a few questions that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen has not received the answer. One is: Does Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, that there is a link between the number of cash benefit recipients and the amount of benefit? It was, of course, the case that under the Socialist-led government the number of cash benefits recipients increased and now the number of cash benefits recipients has decreased. And what kind of service does Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen is comfortable with two adults and two children, where both parents are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits? They are currently receiving 23,200 kroner. After baby. Mr. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen is not that it is a reasonable amount compared to the low-paid people in the labour market? And I mean, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen has not also said that it is part of the cohesion that it must always be worthwhile to work and that there must therefore be reasonableness in how much can be achieved on public service?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105613	Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105614	In other words, it is trying to tell me that the reason why the number of cash benefits increased when we were in government was that we were pursuing a wrong policy in this area. It could be, of course, because the bourgeois government, the Left Government under Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, in 2010 actually reduced the daily allowance and shortened the daily allowance period from 4 years to 2 years. What happens when you shorten a benefit period from 4 years to 2 years? Then there'll be more on cash benefits. That goes without saying. If you can't get cash benefits, you get cash benefits. So that means that's what Mr. Søren Gade's own government at that time helped to reduce the conditions of the benefit recipients, who forced them on cash benefits, and then there came more cash benefits, and now they stand and point their finger at us and say that it was because we had a wrong policy. Seems weird. But unfortunately, I don't even think that Mr. Søren Gade was aware of this. But I have no doubt that this is one of the things that is actually the reason for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105715	Sir. Søren Gade, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105716	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen is an expert on non-disclosure. It was thus that when the government was taken over, no change was made to the unemployment benefit reform. You were against it, but you didn't change it. I have to ask one more question: is it true that the number of recipients of cash benefits increased under the Social Democratic Government? And is it true that it has now fallen? And I would like to ask again: what is a reasonable level for two adults who are on cash benefits and who have two children? When it's not 23,200 kroner. After darling, I must understand the fact that sir... Leif Lahn Jensen is thinking of another figure. Actually, I'd like to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105750	Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105752	I still want to hold on to the fact that one of the reasons why it rose so sharply was the abbreviated benefit period. I think everyone can tell themselves that. If you shorten the benefit period, i.e. half it, there will also be more on cash benefits. And I would like to say about the amount: sir. Joachim B. Olsen has also tried it several times, but I will not go in on the amount. I'm just saying it's not fair to say to sick people who have no opportunity to get to work: Now we take the money from you; we don't make you well; we just make you poor, and then we expect you to get to work. It's just not a policy we agree with, but it's okay that you think it's over on the right. We just don't agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105828	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105831	Thank you. I would really like to stick to the position of the Social Democrats on the area, because I understand that you will not promise anything on the grounds that you do not know the economy you take over at all if you take over at some point. That may be fair enough, but we must be able to express an opinion on the area. So if you take over a treasury which is abounding and you have all the money at your disposal that you want, what is the attitude to how much a family with two adults and two children, where Mom and Dad are both on cash aid, should have if you disregard restrictive state funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210105918	What I think is quite right is the cash benefits we had before. I've said that a lot, by the way. What I also think is quite right is that with the cash assistance reform that we were doing together with the Left I can't remember if the Liberal Alliance was with us... actually said that if you are ill, you need to get well, you have social problems, they need to be removed. We tried to remove the barriers you had to get to work. If you are ill, it does not help to take the money away from the person to get him to work. Then you have to get well. That is why I am saying that the reform we did then, together with this side of the House, was actually the right reform and that it would get more going. It's already starting to work. We have seen that the Minister has stood up and praised this day-to-day job scheme. Some of the measures we took when we were in government have actually begun to get more of these cash aid recipients started. I think that is the right thing to do. That is to say, we must stick to the performance that was before, but we just have to make sure that they have the opportunity to get started and get some proper activities and help to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110024	Here you go, Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110026	Thank you. If I'm supposed to understand that, sir... Leif Lahn Jensen does not believe that you can live a dignified life as a family, two adults, two children, mother and father on cash benefits, for 23,200 DKK. paid after tax each month? Can't you live a dignified life for that? Is that too low?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110048	Here you go, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110049	You have to understand that we don't think it's okay that 80%. Of all those who are getting well, there is no way to react to this. Economic incentives are fine if you can actually respond to them. They can't. A sick person has no chance of getting started if he is still sick. Moreover, there are also some 600 people who, because of the 225-hour rule, lose one cash benefit. Some will lose up to 12,000-13,000 kroner. a month. Who can afford that? Not many people do. I'm just saying that I think this one is beating unfairly and that we will do everything from now on and also, when we get into government, to improve it. I do not want and cannot promise anything, but there is no doubt that with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule we are against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110130	Then there are no more comments or questions, and that is the next rapporteur, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110148	Thank you for that, President. Now we have a proposal here from the SF on the abolition of the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, and we can of course immediately note that SF did not get the support of S to abolish it. They wait and see what happens after there have been elections. They wait and see if our Prime Minister has spent all the money and whether there is any money at all for it. Social democracy can plan something that costs a few billion. They're sitting there raining and planning how to use them. But I'm sorry to have to say to SF and Mr. Karsten Hønge says they can't get the support of Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen today for that. Maybe it'll come after a choice. It's not easy to know. But as things stand now, we have the law on the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule. In the Danish People's Party, we have to admit that there may be a need for some minor adjustments. Surely we should not be pale to look at the legislation here if there is a need for some minor adjustments. We also recognise that some people were sick and needed clarification. This is also why money is being set aside in the rate pool to clarify the situation of those who have been ill for a long time. I just think that no matter what, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen says, and regardless of the fact that he is passing on the monkey and all that, it could suit the Social Democratic Party that they took the lead in having the process of resource change that lies in the flexible job scheme and early retirement, and which is why many people are being maintained in a situation where the municipality does not want to clarify. Of course, we should look into that. The Danish People's Party does not have the same opportunity to participate in this, as we are not in that circle, but the Social Democrats have the opportunity to say: we have something we need to clarify here. It may well be that the Danish People's Party is blamed for the 225-hour rule even if they are ill. However, one could tackle where one could then change something, and that would be precisely by looking at the process of resource development and the effort being made in the municipalities. That's where you could start working. As I said, we in the Danish People's Party are not pale to recognise it if there is a need for some minor adjustments. We also need to look at the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule at a time when we have some experience with it. It may well be that some minor adjustments will be made at that time. But if we look at those covered by the 225-hour rule, I would say that the last example I have heard of was from Guldborgsund, where 600 letters had been sent to people. Of them, some 300 had found small jobs. The law also states that municipalities must help those who cannot find the small jobs in 225 hours. They must be helpful in finding them, and of course I assume the municipalities are when an effort is to be made. The better an effort was made towards the cash benefits recipients, who need a few hours, the better it is. Then they come into contact with the labour market, and in this way they can work their way out of both the 225-hour rule and the cash aid ceiling. It is a step in the right direction and, in fact, many have done so. Perhaps that is also why there is no increase in the number of postponements, although there have been parties in here who have been banners to say that now it is all Armageddon and that people are losing their homes. However, there has been no increase in the number of postponements announced this autumn by the parties against the ceiling on cash benefits. So let's see what it looks like when we get to the spring, whether we're going to make some minor adjustments or whether we have to do something extra to help people out into the labour market. It may be that some additional measures are needed in the job centre to get them into the labour market. We will not reject that at all. Surely it is most logical that people should be helped into the labour market. I think it was this autumn that there was a situation with a single mother with four children who were hit by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. It was just like that, but when you compared the figures to a couple who were HKs and who were on cash benefits, you could see that she actually had more to herself than the married couple who were HKs. And there is nothing to say that it is now quite awful for them and that they are going to go from house to home. There is just something misleading in the figures that are being used, and of course we also have to be sure that it is not some wrong numbers that are being used. But so far we in the Danish People's Party think that the law works well. We can see that when we have a proper basis for looking at it, it may be that we need to make some minor adjustments. We will not reject that at all. It should never be the case that you stand as a legislator and do not want to see whether there are some minor changes that need to be made in a law. But the Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110702	Thank you. Then we have a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110708	Thank you. I promised the rapporteur that I would ask a question, and I will of course do so. When I make a promise, I'll keep it. I hear the rapporteur talking against this and saying that the sick and the disabled should not be on cash benefits. I just have to say to Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted, that they were when they made this cash aid ceiling. And then I ask again: Since the Danish People's Party knew that the sick were on cash aid, why didn't the Danish People's Party demand in the negotiations with the government to get these people out of the cash aid ceiling? Why was it not demanded? Because that's what you could have done. And why did the Danish People's Party not vote for the amendment that came from the Enhedslisten, where they tried to get these people out? The Danish People's Party had every opportunity to pull these activities, these sick people out of the cash aid ceiling. They had every opportunity to make sure they didn't get hit by it. Then why didn't they do it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110804	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110805	Firstly, the Danish People's Party got through that as long as you were ill, you were not covered by the 225-hour rule. That's what's in this. And when we talk about those who are sick and who are on cash benefits, we could see where it was going. It was the famous early retirement and flexible job reform that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's party helped under Mette Frederiksen, where it was actually made so tight that people who were ill, people who were disabled, could not get an early retirement pension they had difficulty getting a flex job at all; they were sent through one resource cycle after another, where they were just placed on cash benefits because Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen's party had made it so tight that there was no possibility of getting out of there. That is the group that we have today and have a problem with. And then the Danish People's Party clearly told the minister that there was a problem with resource progression and early retirement and flexible jobs. There was no secret in that, but sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's party has not been the banner leader for wanting to change it. That's exactly what Mr. Knox said. Leif Lahn Jensen's party, which was the banner leader of introducing such a tight sequence of resources and early and flexible job reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110914	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110915	But even if those people are now here, because Mr. Bent Bøgsted believes that the Social Democracy has done something wrong, surely you do not have to take money from them. And that is what the Danish People's Party is doing. Do we agree that if the Danish People's Party had not voted for the ceiling on cash benefits, all these sick people would not have lost money? We can only agree that, if the Danish People's Party had not voted in favour of the ceiling on cash aid, they would not have lost money. They would have had exactly the amount they had when the Social Democratic Party was in power. Don't we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210110947	Well, what I can see is that, when the Social Democratic Party was in government power, those people were placed on cash aid instead of giving them clarification in relation to early retirement and flexible jobs. That is why the Danish People's Party was the bannerman for us to have turned the pile and looked at those who were sick because they had to get away from the cash aid they shouldn't be there at all. However, I can only say that what the Social Democratic Party wanted when they had government power was that those people should be placed on cash benefits they should not be allowed to move on; they should not be allowed to get an early retirement pension; they should not be allowed to get a flex job; they should just be placed on cash benefits. That is the result of that legislation. That's why we got it through that we should have turned the pile and helped those who were sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111032	Thank you. Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111036	Thank you. I was, of course, pleased to hear the rapporteur open a small opportunity to look at an adjustment of the law. In this context, I would like to hear Mr. Bent Bøgsted's position on this, or perhaps because of the advance on the basis of the law, was estimated to be 9,000 people affected by the 225-hour rule until now in December is 14,100. Is this one of the things that can help to help you look at a revision of the law? What does Mr. Bent Bøgsted to the effect that the number of poor people in Denmark has doubled from 2004 to today? And a third thing... Bent Bøgsted's explanation that at least 1 500 women on maternity leave are affected by the law, regardless of the fact that it does not make sense to talk about women entering the labour market when they have just been given leave from the labour market to be on maternity leave?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111131	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111133	As I said in my rapporteur's speech, there may always be a need for adjustments, and these 1,500 women on maternity leave are perhaps one of the areas where we need to look at whether to adjust when we have some more data on it. It says that if you are on maternity leave, you are exempt from the 225-hour rule. I fully acknowledge that then there is the problem that there is the question of how to interpret it. Do they have to return to the normal amount of cash benefits when they go on maternity leave, or do they have to stay on what they are reduced to before they go on maternity leave? It's always a discussion. However, we are not opposed to some areas where we need to adjust the law. As a politician, one must always be ready to recognise that there may be a need for legislative adjustments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111225	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111230	I think I miss sir. Bent Bøgsted's attitude towards the development of the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, namely that there have been more poor people in Denmark. What is the position of the Danish People's Party on the doubling of the number of poor people in Denmark, and are you going to let go, or are you going to take initiatives to increase the number of poor people, or that perhaps there will be fewer poor people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111258	What I understand, sir. Karsten Hønge, is that he believes that development has given more poor people after the ceiling of cash benefits has entered into force. That's how I understood it. If the efforts in the municipalities are being made as it should be, that they should go out and help people move on, that they should help them find a job, that development could also be slowed down, and we can see that there are many municipalities that are making a lot of effort to help cash aid recipients in jobs and that they can get the hours that allow them to work their way out of the cash aid ceiling and out of the 225-hour rule. So the stakes are on the way. The question is whether it is fast enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111344	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111347	Thank you. I really find it depressing to hear the rapporteur's arguments. The excuse for contributing to a ceiling on cash aid that punishes people who do not have much money in advance is that the Social Democrats did some other things, which were also bad. We agree on the latter when we talk about early retirement, otherwise we do not agree, Mr President. Bent Bøgsted. Sir. Bent Bøgsted's party has contributed to all the reforms that have affected the employees of this country when they become unemployed and sick, with the exception of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. It's cash benefits, early retirement, sickness benefit, Mette Frederiksen's cash benefits reform. The Danish People's Party has been involved all the way except with the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. Nevertheless, it is used as an excuse to defend a bill which clearly punishes some people who do not have much in advance and who also punish people who are ill and who have different disabilities and therefore do not have an earthly chance of defending themselves against these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111457	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111458	Well, I don't think I've used it as an excuse to help make a cash-aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule. What we are talking about is that after the flex job reform was introduced by the Social Democratic Party, it was the process of resources that prevented people from getting clarification. It wasn't as an excuse for us to be involved in making a cash-aid ceiling and 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111521	Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111523	Yes, because that is what the rapporteur starts to talk about every time we ask questions. When the rapporteur gets a little crowded, he starts talking about all the accidents that the Social Democratic Party has done. I fully agree with that criticism. That's just not what we're talking about here. We are talking about the fact that the rapporteur's party has been involved in drafting legislation that hits seriously sick people and puts single mothers and others at risk of being squeezed out of their homes. Now the rapporteur is talking about perhaps making some minor adjustments. Will the rapporteur reveal what some minor adjustments are? And has the rapporteur talked to the Left about it, because the Left has a right of veto in relation to blocking any change in this legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111605	Here you go, sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111607	Well now it is the case that Dansk Folkeparti has also been the banner leader for us to have made an effort for those who are long-term ill, and this has come through via the bet pool. Even if it is good enough, it is something else, but we have got it through that we must have turned the pile and looked at those who are sick, because they should not be on cash benefits at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111625	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111635	Thank you. In the motion for a resolution, B 32, the SF proposes a roll-back of both the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule. The government is criticized for pushing cash aid recipients further away from the labour market. Now let us remember that the purpose of the ceiling on cash benefits is to ensure that working pays better. The Left wants fewer people on public support and more members of the working community. And it is only fair that there is a noticeable difference between taking a job at a minimum wage and being on a transfer income. Cash benefits are a reasonable, temporary substitute. A single parent with two children has a monthly allowance of more than DKK 17,600. after tax, and a couple on cash assistance with two children have a available amount of 23,600 DKK. after tax every month. We think this is reasonable amounts, but it is also amounts that require clear priorities in everyday life. Since the 225-hour rule was reinstated, more than 1,000 people have taken small jobs next to the cash benefits. This is an increase of almost 25%, and this shows that the reform is working. It brings people on transfer income closer to the labour market. The ceiling on cash benefits also provides incentives to take a job. Since the ceiling on cash benefits was adopted, 4,000 fewer people have been employed on cash benefits. We welcome this in the Left. After all, it was the opposite that we saw in the period from 2011 to 2015, when the number of people on cash benefits actually increased. So in the Left we do not think there is a need to break the ceiling on cash benefits. There has to be a difference between being in work and being on cash benefits. It is only fair and fair for all of us in Denmark who want us to have growth and prosperity and more in the working community. Against this background, the Left will not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111901	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. A brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111905	Thank you. I'm very excited to hear Mr. Knox. Hans Andersen's assessment that several economists have recently been there to say that it is a waste of time and a waste of energy, a waste of political capital, to try to push more of these vulnerable people into the labour market • that it is simply a wrong focus to have. And that so-called burning platform: Who likes to stand on a burning platform? Nobody likes that, so you want to get away from it. But the burning platform has simply been turned off by several economists in the last month. What's sir? Hans Andersen's assessment of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210111949	I fundamentally disagree with the fact that we must give up on people who are currently on transfer income, for example. cash assistance, in terms of helping them back into the labour market, although it may be difficult. There are 30,000 job-ready cash-aid recipients who can be said to have the challenge of having a job. We need to help them. So I certainly do not agree that we can now do no more with more reforms in the field of employment. We need to move on that way. To give up on people and say that it's probably a little difficult and we don't want to do that anymore isn't a road that the Left wants to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112037	Sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112039	This is an interesting shift in argument made by the Left here. Because the argument was, a short time ago, that we were on a burning platform where it was necessary to get these people into the labour market because you needed the job offer that was what you wanted to stimulate. That was the argument, and that is why there should be a greater gap between transfer income and wage income. The whole argument was based on the fact that this was the distance that had to be made greater because more hands had to be placed on the labour market. When the economists say that this is actually not what is currently going to be possible in these reforms, then the Left turns to now apparently having one, I think that kind of social face. Maybe that's why I'm having a hard time recognizing it and seeing what's at stake. But now it's not about the economy at all, it depends on anymore. Now it is due to some care for people who have to enter the labour market. That is the way to change arguments, depending on what is appropriate to the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112131	Thank you. Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112133	Absolutely not. This is about boats and boats. It is both a question of ensuring that we constantly get more people into work and do not continue to have the now about 700,000 working age who are not in work, and it is also, of course, a matter of getting out and becoming part of the working community. There is nothing new in the fact that we in the Left believe (1) that we must ensure that it is worthwhile to work. It is a help both for the individual and for the community... and 2) that we keep on sticking to the fact that we have to make reforms that ensure that we can increase growth in Denmark. But of course it also helps the individual, the individual unemployed, if you can get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112219	Thank you. There are no more comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112233	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can clearly support this proposal. It has been worked through, it has been financed, and I also think I would like to remind the Social Democratic Party that we are pointing to funding for this which does not concern the time after the next parliamentary elections at all. The fact is that the money saved by introducing the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule has not yet been spent. So if there is a majority in favour of this in the Folketing, you can close the terrible legislation immediately. The problem with this resolution is the integration service, or it is not a problem, because we support the proposal in any case, but I would like to bear in mind that I think I lack the integration benefit in this. After all, it is even more a measure of poverty. That's why I'm a little sorry it didn't come. So I would like to ask the authors of the motion for a resolution whether they will help us make an amendment and incorporate it so that we also mark that we are fighting to abolish the benefits of integration. After all, it is a matter of taking a single person on an integration allowance before tax to receive only a little more than DKK 6,000, and that a dependent child does not get so much more. I hope we can agree on that. I would just like to say that we have recently received some figures from the Minister showing what this is for completely absurd legislation and that the reasons for it do not hold water at all. We have been told that it is 1 500 people on maternity leave who have been affected by legislation, the purpose of which is supposedly that people are going to work. Well, we have said from the point of view of society that they should not be available for the labour market and that is fine; they must be on maternity leave so that their children get a good start in life. And yet they have to be hit by these rules. We have also received new figures on how many people have been affected by the 225-hour rule, and it turns out that it is almost twice as many as the government had expected in December just over 14,000 people who were affected by the 225-hour rule. Many of those families are then also affected by the ceiling on cash benefits. So it is a much, much more serious picture that emerges there. It is, in fact, 4 000 of those who are also affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, on top of the penalty imposed on them by the 225-hour rule. After all, the government and its support party in the Danish People's Party are completely impressed by this. But I would like to ask the public to take a look at these figures, because it turns out that the whole explanatory statement, the whole argument for that legislation, is nonsense. For the excuse for introducing this legislation is that it should bring people to work. But in view of the government's expectations, you can see that it has gone worse for that group of people. It has gone worse because almost twice as many people as the government expected will now be affected by it. And that is just plain proof that there has apparently been no labour market for those people and that those people have not been able to get a job, not even one of these small jobs that you talk so much about. Because if they had been able to do so, they would not have been affected by the 225-hour rule. The fact is that it is extremely worthwhile for these people to get an ordinary job on contractual terms. It could also do so before the ceiling, and talk of having less of getting a job at the minimum wage of the agreement as a cashier or industrial worker than you have on cash benefits simply does not hold water. It does not do so because the low-paid people we are talking about here are entitled to the same social benefits as cash benefit recipients in relation to housing security and family allowances, etc. So it is something that borders on the deception of the population. We have also received new figures for the outcome of the benefit system. Fortunately, we can all welcome the fact that more people are going to work. The Minister cannot show that it is because of these rules, because they have not, in fact, entered into force until after. It doesn't matter. We're glad. But what we have to bear in mind is that at the same time there is a dramatic increase in the number of people who are losing their earnings altogether • 30%. in the July quarter. It is a threefold increase compared with the figures we usually get on the outcome of the benefit system. 30% are now without support; they have no wage income, they have no public benefit. This is, of course, due to the fact that the patchwork solutions we made with the Thorning government are being phased out. But all this just shows that it's a hollow chat that it's to bring people to work. No, it has a purpose: to impoverish people, and so I must say to the rapporteur of the Left: this is not just about defending the non-working people. We are defending all employees when we attack this legislation and promise to abolish it again because all employees may be at risk of getting into this situation. And I'm sorry I got a little late, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112814	It's okay. Here you go, sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112818	Thank you. It is clear where Enhedslisten is in this case, there is no doubt about that. I just need to hear about something. You have as a single parent with two children with the ceiling for cash benefits DKK 17,600. after tax per month, but how much higher does Enhedslisten think the amount should be? In fact, with the ceiling on cash benefits, we have now ensured that there is a difference between being in work and being on cash benefits, even when it comes to taking jobs for the pay you can get. If you go down to Strøget here in Copenhagen or on another pedestrian street and go into a store and get a job in a shop for contractual terms, you usually get 17,500 DKK. per month in salary. And that's where we make sure with the cash aid ceiling that it's actually worth it. I just have to ask Enhedslisten: How much higher does Enhedslisten want the amount of available, i.e. the DKK 17,600, to be for a single parent with two children?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112929	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210112930	First of all, everyone who listens here must be informed that the amount of rent must be deducted from the amount of money the rapporteur is talking about. The rapporteur very skilfully forgets this. For the figure which the Ministry of Employment informs us of what a single mother with two children has at her disposal when the rent has been paid is DKK 10,200. Let's get this straight. Then I cannot understand why the rapporteur is in doubt as to what Enhedslisten thinks about this. We are fighting for the abolition of this ceiling on cash aid, and we have justified this in all possible contexts, namely because it is making people poor. Surely it cannot be so difficult to understand that our policy here is that the ceiling should be abolished. Because we have a clear fear that thousands of people will be pushed into a situation where they cannot stay in their homes and there are all the accidents that come out of it. Then I have to say something to the discussion that working is worthwhile. My time is up, but I would say that I do not think the rapporteur has got to grips with the mechanics here, but we can come back to that in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113034	Sir. Hans Andersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113035	So we did not get an answer as to how much higher that amount should be. If you pay rent, as every other person in this country does, of the amount of money you have after tax, then it is true that if the rent is DKK 7,300. a month, you still have over 10,000 kroner. available for other necessities. But the question was: How much higher does Enhedslisten want this amount to be? Is that 1,000 kroner? higher, it's 2,000 kroner. higher, or is it 3,000 kroner? higher, the amount available must be if available to the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113118	I cannot understand why the rapporteur continues to ask, because in the first place we need to abolish the ceiling on cash aid, which means that it will be a clear improvement in the Enhedslisten's optics that we will get rid of it and thus avoid thousands of people being chased out of their homes. So I don't understand. Another thing that we also need to address is, of course, the antisocial legislation that the Left has been involved in and which, unfortunately, is supported by a majority in the Folketing, namely the way in which transfer income is regulated, which means that the purchasing power of transfer income falls year by year. It has been doing so for many years, and it will be even more dramatic with the down-regulation that the Left and the previous government carried out in the tax reform in 2012.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113210	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113213	Thank you for that, Mr President, and thank you for that. Finn Sørensen. I'm just gonna have to arrest it when mr. Finn Sørensen stands up on the Speaker's Chair and says that this legislation is not about getting people into work, but that it is • and I quote • for the purpose of pausing people, quote the end. At best, it's unworthy. So, excuse me, what are the motives for giving political opponents that they want to impoverish people? What kind of rhetoric is that? One thing, then, is the customary right of envy of the left, but I think this is simply obscene, especially from Mr. Finn Sørensen, who doesn't usually use that kind of stuff. So, and now to a question: should it happen that the red side of this Chamber gets power, as they have been watching, is it an ultimate demand from the Enhedslisten to support a possible Social Democratic government that this cash aid ceiling is removed? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113314	I cannot understand why the rapporteur is reacting so emotionally to it. Because I have ended up with many times from this platform, I think, in every single speech I have made on these issues, saying that when we look not only at this reform, but also at the series of reforms that the Left has been involved with the previous government, there are two objectives behind these reforms. One is to raise money for tax relief, which has been notoriously the richest in this society. It can of course be demonstrated from what all the savings have been spent on, both by the previous and the present government, and what the current government also has ambitions for in relation to reliefs in top tax. So that's one thing, and it's a purely economic thing. Then I have said that there is another purpose, and that is to reduce the social safety net. For those parties and economists who support this whole thinking, we know that if we reduce social security for employees, they do not make the same demands and then they do not fight to the same extent for better pay and working conditions. That is why there is a clear expectation behind all this legislation and all these reforms, from the unemployment benefit reform onwards, that there can be pressure on wages, because there is a philosophy that more people will then get into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113442	Will it be an ultimate demand from the Enhedslisten for a Social Democratic government to remove the ceiling on cash aid? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113456	The rapporteur will find out when we get to that situation. We have not taken a position on what we are calling for in connection with the formation of a social democratic government, and the rapporteur therefore needs to be a little more patient.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113513	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113524	Thank you. The proposal here seeks to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and this is, of course, due to a widespread claim that they lead to a high level of poverty in Denmark. It is always interesting when the left can think that small and sensible cuts in the world's highest social benefits are a catalyst for great and destructive poverty. The Left must see a badly impoverished world when they look out like this in Europe, because there are few countries that are just near being able to match the level of cash aid in Denmark, even after the introduction of the ceiling and the 225-hour rule. In the Liberal Alliance, we think it is right that the ceiling on cash benefits should set a level of benefit in relation to wages at the lower level of the regulated labour market. It should, of course, always be the case that there is a marked and noticeable gain from working instead of being on passive support. At the same time, it is good that with the 225-hour rule it is encouraged that you can also take small jobs. At all costs, it must be avoided that many drift away from the labour market. The level of benefits we are now seeing with the ceiling on cash benefits is still quite high. A single mother with two children has 17,600 kroner. available amounts per month after tax. It is absolutely right, as has been discussed in the past, that rent should be paid and that the things that you have in your monthly budget should be paid, but it is still an amount that is miles away from poverty. Of course, you are cut off from some material benefits when you are on cash aid, but it is also intended that there should be noticeable differences in people's way of life out of caring for a job. Against this background, we in the Liberal Alliance are very pleased with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and we will therefore vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113725	There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113730	Thank you. After all, I experience the Liberal Alliance on many occasions trying to refer to economists and how they now look at reality and what may now be evidence of, as I believe is a favourite expression. So what does the Liberal Alliance say that several economists in recent times have said that it is a hopeless project to try to push the last forces out of the most vulnerable and marginalised people in this country that it is simply not just a waste of time, but that it will also lead to a lot of resources actually being spent on something that, economically speaking, does not lead anywhere?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113809	When we in the Liberal Alliance relate to the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, it is from the point of view of being able to pay for work. It is a consideration of fairness and fairness. In addition, we recognise that employment can also have a social policy objective, but it cannot be a social policy tool alone. Those who are marginalised and who have difficult challenges must not only be helped by pressure in employment. They also need to be helped through a solid social policy, and we in the Liberal Alliance actually recognise that early efforts are also more expensive, but that they can pay off in the long run.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113852	It seems to me that the Liberal Alliance is in favour of recognizing what the economists are saying, that it is not economically worthwhile, but in fact it is not the economic argument that is being used, but more so that the Liberal Alliance and probably related parties will feel bad about the idea that some people are getting some money that they might be able to cut back on. The aim is to make people poor with various reasons. One can have pain in one's body just by the thought that other people might come to the money too easily, or one can hope that it can mean a downward spiral of wages in Denmark, but it is therefore a recognition that it is financially wasted, what economists have clearly pointed out over the last month.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210113934	No, when the Liberal Alliance is interested in capping the cash aid, it is not about us feeling sorry for some people getting easier into money. Firstly, it is a question of fairness and fairness, but, in addition, it is also a question of the economy, because there is no doubt that getting people into work is economically worthwhile. There is no one who can be in doubt about this, and so you do not need to be an economist in order to be able to calculate that it is better to pay for the economy, that people have a job where they contribute over tax rather than go home on passive support, where it is other people's income that has to support them. It's self-evident.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114013	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114019	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's recognition that out of the available amounts that are always spent on that side of the House, rent must be deducted and also everything else that is needed to survive. Thank you. But then I think it would suit the rapporteur and also the other parties if we were to stick to the average amount of available money put on the table by the Minister of Employment, because average rent has been taken into account. I think that the rent you are counting on is a little too low, but it does not matter, because it is certainly a better starting point, so you do not conceive the public of anything consciously or unconsciously. I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur know what the difference is between the cash allowance for a single person and a dependent in relation to a 37-hour job on a minimum HK salary? Does the rapporteur know what the difference is?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114109	That is quite right, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says that you can go out with different numbers when we talk about available amounts. The figure on the Ministry of Employment's website, which is this 17,600 kr., can also be called 13,000, and then one of the average considerations about rent has been removed. But rent is something individual, and when we talk about wages, we don't deduct the rent either. But it's important to say it's exclusive rent. That is also why I am doing something about saying that. Then I'll give Mr. Finn Sørensen is right that it is worth taking a job. It can. We can look at some of the types of family examples we have that it pays off. Up to 5,000 kroner. There is a difference between working and working for a family in which both are in work and on cash benefits per month. So I recognise that it is worthwhile, but that was exactly what was meant by introducing the ceiling on cash benefits, namely to increase that gap.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114208	Well, it was worth it before. Now the rapporteur did not answer the question. It is fair enough that you may not just have the figures, I just think it is important. If you want to talk about it so much that it has to pay off, then you have to get the facts straight. The fact is, then, that for a single cash benefit recipient who gets a job at the industrial minimum wage, which is only slightly above HK's minimum wage, there is a gain of DKK 17,145. a month, before we take into account all the other things you get when you get into a contractual job with a pension etc. And for parents, there is a difference of DKK 3.538. in holiday money and pension, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114255	Yes, but it is a question of when it is estimated that it is worthwhile. Well, we could easily take a situation where there is a family that is on passive support, that gets x number of crowns, and that, when it is in work, gets a tiny bit more. But we believe that it makes a difference how much more you get to get up and take a job. And there you can have a different political attitude about how much you think it takes to get people into work, how much you think it is reasonable to get more to take a job rather than not have a job. This is a political assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114332	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Torsten Gejl as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114338	The alternative is to support the motion for a resolution on the removal of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and also to support the integration benefit. The good rapporteurs before me have again given all the good arguments for this, so I shall not repeat it all again. I note, however, that DF offers the opportunity to adjust the cash benefits ceiling a little, and I think that is really exciting. Let's take a look at this. Let's see what happens. We also believe that the funding proposed is fine, that is to say, taking the money saved on the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule and giving it back to the cash benefits recipients. It is also possible, as we have proposed in our draft budget, to finance the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule by abolishing coercion and control in the employment system. In the alternative, we believe that the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the employment system are, in general, a huge motion of censure against the recipients of cash benefits. We would like to lift the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, but we would also like to look at how we can improve a cash assistance system based on mistrust and coercion. Society suggests that the unemployed do not want to work if they are not forced, controlled, administered and subjected to financial incentives. We think this is wrong. It may well be that there is one or two who would lie down on the couch and wait for the cash aid for a period if there was no coercion and control, but it is so few that when we legislate to force, control and manage them completely, quite few, then we make unemployment a nightmare for all those who want to join the community. There is nothing as destructive and demotivating for people as being left out of influence, deprived and faced with mistrust, and we are also creating conflict between society and its citizens. People who are put under compulsion and control very often have the completely healthy response to combat the system that tries to force and control them while trying to find a job. In the alternative, we believe that the employment system should be based on trust. According to international studies, we are world champions of trust in Denmark. We trust each other. We put our cherries unguarded on the road and expect people to leave money for them and they do. We are one of the countries in the world where we have the most confidence in the state. And yet, in the midst of our society, we have an employment system based on mistrust, coercion and economic incentives. We would like to end this. In the alternative, we are working towards the introduction of cash benefits without counterclaims. We want to abolish coercive, control and administrative measures which deprive citizens of authority over their lives and force them to have a certain number of meetings, a certain number of job searches, a certain number of courses, internships, etc. And we will use the over 4 billion. kr., we spend on control and coercion, to make offers for cash aid recipients so good that people accept them without being forced. We must help the many sick and injured benefit recipients to recover, and we must offer the job-ready citizens qualifications and courses that are relevant to the individual's professionality and life. It costs a lot of money and, as I said, they are released from the control system when we stop hunting, forcing and controlling our fellow human beings. Cash benefits without counterclaims will also have the effect that case officers and other front staff who today manage and control the unemployed will be released to other interventions than to check the lives of the unemployed. This can help the unemployed to move forward in their lives on their own terms. The case workers can regain power over their work from the middle managers who often sit and remotely control them with excelarchs and cross-checks, and ultimately give power over citizens' lives back to citizens. So, yes, we need to lift the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule as soon as possible. But that is not enough. We must set the citizens and the employment system free. Such visions can quickly lead to the head shake and lifted eyebrows in here at Christiansborg, but we must remember that it is also really, really easy to whirl the dust up in here. Many visions, which can lead to the main shake at Borgen, have already been realized around the municipalities in an outramatic and practical way. The municipality of Kalundborg has, for example: run an experiment with cash assistance without counterclaims for a few years in an experimental scheme under the Ministry of Employment, where exposed unemployed people could decide for themselves whether they would attend meetings at the municipality. According to the local case officers, the attendance of the unemployed was larger than normal, where attendance has been forced, and the attempt has resulted in twice as many activations in Kalundborg Municipality compared to the rest of the country on a voluntary basis. As Kalundborg's labour market manager Jens Folman said in P1: The exceptional thing is that this target group, which is from the outset far away from the labour market, has also been included. Unemployment has fallen for that target group. For that audience, it has made a world of difference that they have been met with a belief that they actually can. In the alternative, we would like to help ensure that both activity-ready and job-ready cash benefits recipients have an experience that the employment system believes that they actually can do something and that they want to do it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114838	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114842	Thank you. And thank you for the input to the debate. It is true that we need to learn from the good examples around the country so that we ensure that more people get to work. However, in relation to the discussion on the fundamentals, i.e. whether the ceiling on cash benefits is the right way forward, I just have to understand that, and the alternative can answer yes or no: is the alternative's support for a possible future S-led government conditional on the removal of the ceiling on cash benefits? You can say yes or no to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114925	It's gonna be a little longer. The alternative does not make ultimate demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210114932	So even if the alternative is moving towards the ceiling on cash aid, it is not so important that, in discussing the basis of government, we intend to demand that it be removed if Mrs Mette Frederiksen is to become a future prime minister. In other words, should I understand the fact that the ceiling for cash aid went further down the line of demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115010	No, I don't think so. Hans Andersen needs to understand that way. I was sitting by my desk wondering how long I've been arguing against the cash benefits ceiling. I found out it was 48 hours in a row. I think we have had 15 consultations, 3 marathon sessions in the Folketing, 2 question debates, hearings, motions for resolutions, where I have argued against the ceiling for cash aid for 48 hours in a row. So I think that the Left also knows very well that abolishing it is a matter of the heart of the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115037	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115048	Thank you. 48 hours in a row anyway, sir. Torsten Gejl. It's a brand-new record in the Folketing. We're going to have parliamentary debates with accommodation, it'll be fun, I'll look forward to that. But I understood the point, and it is true that this is a subject we have discussed a great many times, and it is also important for the Radical Left, because our main appeal with the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule is that we ■ I think actually quite broadly here in the Danish Parliament want to help people into the labour market. But it is equally important for us that we do not want to push people into poverty. And with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the benefit of integration, which is quite as much a poverty benefit, we further marginalise vulnerable families. It is imperative for us in the Radical Left that children in Denmark do not grow up in poverty. We also want many more Danes to get to work and have the opportunity to work, and we do so very much in our policy. For the very best for children's upbringing is that their parents can support themselves and them, and the worst thing for children's upbringing is to grow up in poverty. But no one can choose to be on cash benefits. If you can work, you have to work. Cash benefits are our safety net in Denmark. We therefore believe that the government and the Danish People's Party have cut a hole in that safety net, and this will lead to more children growing up in poverty. We do not think that is fair and that is not the policy we want. So it would perhaps be nice if we could instead have a completely realistic, nuanced discussion about what it costs to live in Denmark and what the reality really is for families on cash benefits. And let us talk about how they get to work and what they do when we have to be honest, and that is what we think we make of demands on employment-oriented action, but also on social policy action and on health policy action. Because we need to help people on cash aid with a concerted effort where they, as citizens, are the people at the heart and where the efforts that we, as a society, put into action for them, and not least with them, solve the challenges that they face, all around, and that is most often the best way to solve the biggest problems first. Because we also know that for a great many of those who are on cash benefits, being available is unfortunately only one of many challenges. So if cash aid is a major policy, when you have been in the debate on it for 48 hours in a row, it must surely be that the tools and the necessary professional room for manoeuvre that actually get people into work, for fortunately very many places have succeeded, also what we are discussing as a major policy. That is why the Radical Left is opposed to the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit, although this resolution is not about that. We don't think it's right. For more opportunities for all children and especially for children who are in difficulty, our top priority is, and the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit do not give more children any more opportunities. On the contrary, they marginalise children, which is why we are opposed to these rules and to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115538	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115543	I am glad that the rapporteur says that she is in favour of this proposal. Then I will just hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will be prepared to try to negotiate between those parties that would like to support the proposal, so that we also have the inclusion of the abolition of the benefits of integration. This, of course, requires that we put our heads together and find funding for it too. It's not crazy many million kroner, but some money needs to be found. So I just want to know whether the rapporteur will be prepared for us to try to hold a debate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115616	You are welcome to make suggestions. In the Radical Left we have an economic plan. We have fully financed the abolition of both the integration benefit, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule. That seems to us to be the clearest indication we can give. I would also add that we all know very well, as the Social Democrat rapporteur made clear, that this proposal does not come through. That is why we think that we should spend our time discussing how to actually have a nuanced and proper debate on the employment-oriented social and health policy initiatives that will actually make a difference in relation to putting the citizen at the centre, that is to say the people who are on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115706	I heard that announcement very well, and I think it is interesting, and I would also like to take part in it. I don't see that in these 20 seconds, which I now have left. My question was the more: if we could now bring together four parties for a common demand to abolish the ceiling on cash aid and the benefit of integration, and if we four parties find the funding, then we would certainly have come one step closer to convincing the Social Democrats that they should support that too. Then, if we can say so, we have solved a knot and, although we do not have the majority now, we will probably have it after the next parliamentary elections. That is why my question is this: will the rapporteur be open to us taking a debate among the four parties that are now supporting this proposal so that we can just get the last one in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115758	I can only say the same: you are welcome to come up with new proposals before the vote, and then we will have to take a position on them. I and the Radical Left are not worried that with a new government we can find a way of abolishing these poverty benefits, and actually fully understand that the commitments contained in this proposal differ. I am not going to negotiate a future basis of government from the Parliamentary Chair, either with the Enhedslisten or with other parties, and I also heard the Enhedslisten's rapporteur himself express that earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115837	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Karsten Hønge will have to wait a while.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210115858	These are, of course, the authors of the proposal at the end. Thank you for the floor. We shall, of course, vote against the proposal. It may not come as a surprise that when a proposal is put forward that we should vote down something that we have just voted for, we will, of course, vote against voting it down. We are in favour of the ceiling on cash benefits. That is why we have introduced it. We are because we think that cash benefits should be lower than wages in low-paid jobs, so there is a gain in taking a job and because we think that the level of benefits that we offer also after the introduction of the cash benefits ceiling is at a reasonable level. For example, when a single person with two children gets 17,600 kroner. After tax, we certainly think it is a level of performance for which we can both live and which we can be familiar with. In relation to all other countries, we have a very high level of cash assistance, and we are also in favour of a proper dependency base, including for people without work, in Denmark, but we cannot set it up so high that it does not pay to take a low-paid job. So we do not support the resolution, but we can support the purpose of the resolution, which is, of course, to expose the double standards and hypocrisy of the Socialists. We fully support that intention because it is a free round to thunder against the ceiling of cash aid and then would not abolish it. We must, of course, decide whether to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits or whether to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. You can't both score points on being against it and then wouldn't abolish it. So the intention which clearly lies here with the motion for a resolution we fully support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120040	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120043	Thank you. I'd like to hear Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's explanation that when the law was introduced was the main argument, that one needed more hands on the labour market, that one simply had to have it as a supply reform, one had to have more people working and that the strategy has simply been avoided by many leading economists in the past. The so-called burning platform that was tried to keep fire on when the law was introduced later turns out to be a waste of good power. What does Mr. Rasmus Jarlov for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120120	It is true that this was one of the reasons used to introduce the ceiling on cash benefits. There are three reasons for the ceiling on cash benefits. One is that it will encourage more people to enter work, which will have an employment effect. The other is that it saves some money. The third is the reason for reasonableness. We believe, for moral reasons, that there must be a difference in how much you have for yourself, if you are in work and if you are not in work. On the conservative side, we have in fact put particular emphasis on the last explanatory statement that we simply believe that it is wrong and unfair that we should get nothing out of going from being on cash aid to being at work. There simply has to be a gain in that. I myself have not used the employment effect very much in the argument. Somebody else has to answer that. I believe that there is an employment effect and I believe that some will come to work, but I agree with the economists that we are not talking about tens of thousands of extra people coming to work because of the ceiling on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120219	So, regardless of which of the three reasons Mr. Rasmus Jarlov will use which of them the rapporteur thinks is best suited to choosing to hit at least 1 500 women on maternity leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120235	I still think that the level of benefit that we offer to women on maternity leave is reasonable, and that is why I do not think it is a reasonable language to say that they are being hit. Women are still being helped on maternity leave, who receive a benefit, and we think that is fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120255	The next question is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120258	Thank you. It's just for the discussion that it has to pay off to work. Does the rapporteur think it is far too small a difference when there are 11,400 kroner? in contrast to the cash benefits for a single person and the minimum wage for a job in the industry, including the things that can be done in money pensions, holiday money, etc.? 11,400 kr. This has always been the case, and would the rapporteur not acknowledge that it has always been worth working for a cash benefit recipient?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120336	I don't know the number and I can't confirm it. I assume it's 11,400 kroner. In a year or so? I don't suppose it's $1,400. a month. If it was 11,400 kroner. a month after tax, I'd say it's a pretty big amount. But it is not, because I would be very, very surprised if it could be shown to be so big. We have had examples of people getting very, very little out of getting to work, especially when you recognise that some extra costs are incurred by being in work, among other things. transport costs, and perhaps sometimes you are a little more busy, which means that you get some extra costs. Therefore, there simply has to be a difference between how much you earn when you are in work and what you get in cash benefits, including when it comes to the lowest paid jobs in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120430	Both amounts are before tax in connection with the comparison I make. Cash benefits are DKK 10,968 and the minimum wage of the industry, when you include the supplements, fixed supplements that can be made up of money, such as holiday money, holidays and pensions, comes up to DKK 22,411. Before taxes. Both are before taxes. I guess it pays to work, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120503	As I said, it's a little hard to relate to the equation when you don't have it in front of you and don't see what's included, so I'd like to look at it a little more. I can only say what we have taken as a starting point when we created the ceiling on cash benefits, and that was that when we take the lowest paid jobs in Denmark and compare them with what you get from benefits in total and this is including housing benefits and including family allowances for those who have children we have had the principle that on cash benefits you should have 80%, when you take the same benefits of what you have, if you are working in a low paid job, and that is what we have put into practice, and that is what I think is a very, very reasonable principle. I would like to see the specific calculation, and I cannot deal with it immediately without having it in front of me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120551	The next question is Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120554	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. Now, in a previous debate in this Chamber from the platform, the rapporteur has claimed that no one was on cash benefits who were ill. I just want to know if the rapporteur still has that impression.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120610	I also believe that I have stressed in previous debates that there may well be some people who are ill who are on cash benefits, because the systems are not perfect. This is, of course, about an assessment that is being made in the municipalities of people's health. And then I think it is important to clarify that we are talking here about whether there are people on cash benefits who are so ill that they cannot work. Because, of course, there are people on cash benefits who have some kind of illness and some impairments. What is crucial is whether they are so ill that they cannot do a job. And there shouldn't be anyone on cash benefits who's so sick. That is not the intention of the system, and it is up to the municipalities to move them on to some other benefits than cash benefits. And it may well be that in some cases the municipalities are not good enough for that, but we cannot adapt the system to the assumption that we should have services at a level that is so high that it can also be suitable for people in illness, because they are not supposed to be on cash benefits.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120715	Well, now the numbers say it's 75%. of the recipients of cash benefits who are ready for activity, which means that they are not ready for work. So that's quite, quite a lot. And I have very often heard the argument that they should not be on cash aid, and I think that is wise, but I am missing that in the same sentence one tells where they are going then, so I am talking about those who are too sick to be able to get to work. When there is an echo from the bourgeois camp that says they should not be on cash aid, I would really like a clear answer to: where should they be if they cannot work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120751	Then they should be on early retirement, for example. In other words, if you are so ill that you will not be able to do a job again, that is the arrangement to which you are going. There are also resource cycles for some groups. We have made a lot of arrangements, perhaps even too many. But you're not supposed to be on cash benefits if you're too sick to take care of a job. You can be on cash benefits if you have some minor health problems, and you can also be at work if you have some minor health problems. So that doesn't mean that because you have some kind of illness, you shouldn't be on cash benefits, but if you've completely lost your ability to work, you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120835	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210120847	Thank you to all the rapporteurs for having dealt with the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF, and of course thanks in particular to those parties who were positive about it and who intend to support it. I would also like to say to the Enhedslisten and the Radical Left and also the Alternative, I assume that I think we should find a solution to bring the integration benefit into it. I would also like to thank the Danish People's Party for the small opening they showed along the way, where it was thought to be possible to see some imbalances that were not provided for when the law was passed. I can guarantee that we will vacuum around all corners to find opportunities to bring the Danish People's Party's small gratitude to reality. The starting point of our resolution is a position that inequality tears society apart. Equal societies are doing better in all areas than unequal societies. Poverty hits hard at just one year in a child's life, which must be dragged into poverty, means less chances of later in life being able to receive youth education. And the interesting thing here is not, as sometimes happens from the bourgeois side, to compare poverty in Denmark with poverty in another country. What goes through every time you measure the importance of equality and inequality in a society is relative poverty, relative inequality. We note that in 2004 there were 20,000 poor and in 2014 there were 40,000. Today there are approx. 35,000 children who experience being what is called one-year-old poor, i.e. as in 1 year of their childhood experience poverty and it strikes through. Children of poor parents have approx. 60% greater risk of becoming early retirement already at the age of 30. Is it worthwhile to work? That question is asked so often in these debates. The Rockwool Foundation's Research Unit shows that cash aid has been eroded over the last 25 years, and now that development is further accelerated. The biggest fall is for single non-parents, where in 1988 it could be seen that cash benefits amounted to 38%. the average wage, and in 2012 it had fallen to 31%. For single parents, cash benefits fell from 72% in 1988. of the average wage to reach 63 per cent in 2012. And for parents who are couples, cash benefits in 1988 amounted to 57 per cent, but in 2012 51 per cent. of an average wage. What does it mean to be poor in Denmark? This means, among other things, that one out of every five poor people does not take public transport, that almost one out of every six does not eat three meals a day, that one out of every seven does not buy prescribed medicines, and that one out of every eight has difficulty in bearing disability costs. Poor children have more deprivation than other children. One in three poor children has spare time deprivation. One in four poor children has deprivation in clothing and footwear. And nearly one in four poor children is deprived of housing and housing. So when we discuss whether financial incentives work, I would say: well, they do that in some situations. If you are able to move away from economic pressure, it is a bit like you, if you meet two thugs on the street, are actually able to bypass them, and then you probably choose to bypass them. But the problem with the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule is that the economic incentive, as you call it, affects those people who are actually able to move and take account of a new situation. I have no idea how many it can be, but probably a small number. However, the majority of it shows all the surveys are not able to move as a result of financial incentives alone. So when you push people who aren't able to move, what happens then? They'll just roll over. This law affects tens of thousands of people, and a few hundred move. Poverty, on the other hand, just leads to apathy and upsetness. However, the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule obviously affect wage formation in the longer term. This will put pressure on the minimum wage, and we will be able to stand here again in a while and say that more distance must now be created. So once wages have fallen, transfer incomes can fall and you can contribute to a spiral of death towards the bottom. For SF it is crucial that everyone gets fair odds in life, and one step on that path will be to decide what we are proposing here, namely to lift the cash benefits ceiling and the 225-hour rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121433	There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121439	Thank you. That's a clear speech. I just want to ask whether the SF demands that the ceiling for cash aid and the 225-hour rule be abolished before, if so, if there is a red majority after the next elections, a future social democratic government will be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121509	What would the SF say if the Socialists did not want to remove the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121522	Then they can fuck off.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121528	The next question in the line is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121531	I would just like to thank the rapporteur for the good work that has been done here and also to thank the rapporteur for the statement that we are trying to find a solution so that the abolition of the benefit of integration is also included in the proposal. So I look forward to it. I also think it was very good that the rapporteur pointed out the deterioration in the value of cash aid that has taken place over the years. Now it is not to destroy the good mood or tease or anything, but will the rapporteur recognise that the deterioration will increase to a great extent as a result of the tax reform in 2012, in the form of the dramatic down-regulation of transfer income that is in it? And does this give the rapporteur the opportunity to consider whether that point of tax reform should be brought to an end?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121627	I think they would use a foreign word here at the university and say that there is a discord in it, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says. First, Mr. Finn Sørensen says he doesn't want to spoil the good mood, and then he mentions the tax reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121640	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121641	After all, it's a temperament issue, what you experience as destroying the good atmosphere. After all, it was the rapporteur himself who took up something for which I actually commended him, and which I thought he was very good at addressing, namely the fact that cash aid has actually deteriorated relatively in relation to wage developments, and that is a rather dramatic curve that the rapporteur shows there. So the rapporteur himself makes it part of the discussion, and I think that is good and right, but it is also natural that we should consider the fact that some legislation has actually been adopted which means that this curve is going to be even more steeply down, just as it will be in the case of the daily allowance. That is why I think it is very natural to ask what the rapporteur thinks about this and whether we should not try to break up with the tedious developments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121736	What we are discussing today is specifically the resolution we have tabled. I think that this is a skewed development that will take place with transfer income, including the daily allowance, in the next few years. It was part of a larger deal where good things came with, but I don't think that if it were up to the SF, it should have been funded in this way. It was not possible to get another funding when we were in government, but I think it is a development that goes the way that chickens scrape, and that is behind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121806	The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121809	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Karsten Hønge for the motion for a resolution today. I think it has been a good debate and a debate in which we may disagree, but where we are not so concerned about scam, and I think that is nice. All I have to do is ask sir. Karsten Hønge, whether it is SF's view that you are poor • it is the expression that is often used • if you as a family with two adults and two children have a flat-rate after tax of DKK 23,200. a month.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121843	See, we can get into long discussions about the amounts we do sometimes but what goes through every time you examine what equality versus inequality means for a society is consistently the relative inequality. The relative inequality is considerably more severe than what we can call concrete poverty. So if you grow up in a society that is considerably poorer than the Danish, but more equal, it will actually provide better opportunities, even for those who are poor than if you grew up in a wealthy society where the distance is great. So what we are most concerned with is the dramatic consequences that relative inequality will have and, of course, especially for those at the bottom of a society. But that's not all. Equal society wins over unequal societies on all parameters, and it is also in favour of those people who, it can be said, strictly speaking, deliver the most economically to the community. But they also experience growing up in a society where there is a greater degree of security, less crime and greater cohesion, and they therefore also have an opportunity to establish business on better conditions than in more unequal societies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121955	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210121957	That was a very, very exciting answer. That's not exactly what I asked. Nevertheless, thank you for your answer, because I find that interesting. For this debate on inequality is one of the points where we also think differently. After all, we can agree that inequality to the extent that you see it in many parts of the world is absolutely terrible and that it is bad in terms of creating a good and stable society. But before we did this, it was the case that a single person with three children who went to work had 700 kroner. more a month than a single person with three children who did not go to work. There's a great resemblance between the two. Is it fair that equality is so great or that inequality is so small?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122047	The differences are far greater than Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen here explains. The fact is that there is a mechanism on the labour market which means that, firstly, very few people are working on purely contractual minimum wages, but the second is that everyone knows and everyone can see that, very quickly after starting a job at a minimum wage, there will be an increase in wages. In the first 2-3 months, the vast majority have already moved away from the minimum wage. The opportunity to negotiate your salary all the time is probably not so much present in the cash benefits system where you can't just show up at the municipality and say that now you have to negotiate your cash benefits. That's one. The second is that there are a number of other benefits involved in working: holiday money, pension etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122130	Thank you to the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122146	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122205	Thank you. In social democracy, we advocate strengthening the EU's external borders. It is necessary to take the pressure of refugee and migrant flows before they arrive in Europe. It is clear that Europe cannot bear the burden of the millions of migrants who could potentially want a better life in our part of the world. That is why Europe's borders must and must be better safeguarded. We ourselves have a share of responsibility for this. We have, for example. the responsibility for ensuring that the control at the airport in Kastrup is top. At the same time, of course, we must also provide the necessary staff and expertise to the European coastguard and border guard, so that we can hopefully make control and registration work again in practice in countries such as Greece and Italy. With this bill, we are implementing the regulation on the European Border and Coast Guard in Danish law. More precisely, we allow the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament to act as an observer and supervise the authorities of other countries in the joint return of rejected asylum seekers. It is a task which the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament already carries out today in relation to compulsory broadcasts in this country. We think that this is a quite sensible proposal that we support. I also understand that the Bureau has nodded to it. That is why, of course, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122339	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Martin Henriksen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122348	Thank you. We're dealing with Bill No. L 126, which concerns an amendment of Danish rules as a result of the regulation on the European Border and Coast Guard, in other words Frontex, as we call it. The Danish People's Party tends that we cannot support the bill as we do not want to give the Ombudsman more powers than he already has. In relation to the regulation as a whole, the Danish People's Party has not given a mandate to it at a meeting of the European Committee of the Regions, since in our view the regulation challenges the right of the Member States to assess for themselves the extent to which national borders should be protected, as well as there seems to be an element of direct exercise by the European Union in relation to the return part. We believe that it should be the sovereign responsibility of each nation state to assess how much or how little one's borders should be guarded. That is not what the European Union should decide. Border controls are or should be a national matter. In our opinion, the Danish People's Party can, of course, work together on various measures in certain areas of foreign policy, but basically foreign policy is also a national matter, like border controls, at least in our view. We want to maintain that, there should be no doubt about it. Here the regulation and today's legislative proposals, which translate part of the regulation, are moving in the wrong direction. Now, of course, we are taking the committee procedure, but as things stand at present, the Danish People's Party tends to vote against the bill when it comes to the third reading here in Parliament. Those were the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122513	There is one brief comment from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122517	I am surprised, however, that the rapporteur and his party may not surprise me entirely, but they will not support the proposal. And then I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not think that this proposal will make it easier for European countries to send out people who are not entitled to asylum in Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122543	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122544	You might think so, but I am not sure you can read it out of the figures. Today we are already working together to send out people, and there we have found some figures from the Danish People's Party about how many people have actually been sent out in this pan-European cooperation, and it is not exactly overwhelming. In other words, when you look at the figures for some of the years, you see that in 2011 it is less than ten people sent out, and in some of the years, as far as I can see, it is even lower. There you have about four people sent out a year. So there is no indication that one has particularly good experience of going with other countries to send people out. It may well be that this cooperation can improve, but it is also possible to strengthen cooperation on a two-man basis between the nation states.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122634	However, the rapporteur recognises that this is precisely what this regulation is about: strengthening cooperation on the expulsion of people who are not entitled to stay in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122650	In other words, the specific legislative proposal is, of course, about whether or not the Ombudsman should have more powers. What is contained in the regulation is that, in addition to cooperating on multiple repatriations, it is not certain that this will happen. The EU must have greater competence in determining when individual countries will have to have border controls and how much border controls they will have to have. It is also possible to give direct instructions to individual Member States on how they should act in relation to guarding their borders. And we believe that this is a national matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122717	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122720	I have to say that I am a little puzzled by the argument put forward by Mr. Martin Henriksen's side. So, the institution of the Ombudsman is a Danish invention. It is such a Danish value that people are protected from abuse. It may of course be that the Danish People's Party is opposed to the idea from Denmark and the value, and it is fair enough that it is a position to have. However, I know that the Danish People's Party has supported the EU's border policy, such as the agreement with Turkey, where Erdogan has been allowed to guard the border. So I just have to understand: when the Danish People's Party believes that this is something that the EU should not interfere with, is it because the Danish People's Party has regretted its support for, for example, the EU-Turkey agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122808	I know that the Ombudsman institution is not a Danish invention, but a Swedish invention, which we have subsequently adopted, but peace be with it. Now it is not the case that we believe that there should be no Ombudsman in Denmark. We just do not think there is any reason why the Ombudsman should gradually acquire more and more competences in the field of foreigners. Nor do we object to having pan-European cooperation to expel people to certain countries, for example, but that is more the form we criticise in relation to the regulation in question. We think it is scandalous that the European Union should have more powers with the regulation that lies here and that the European Union should have the right to decide more about border controls than the European Union does today. These are some reasons why we think this is a step in the wrong direction. But we tend to vote no. Now, of course, there will be a committee procedure, and it may well be that things will end differently, but our starting point is that we are voting against the bill in question, which, moreover, translates into a smaller part of the regulation. The majority of the regulation can be implemented without Danish legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122858	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122900	Thank you. Yes, that is probably true, it is probably more of a Nordic idea, but that is also a Danish value, which we have been watching over here for many years and which has given our citizens rights. It is clear that one can be against spreading the good invention to other parts of the world, that Danish values must be spread out. However, what I heard the rapporteur say was that we are opposed to the EU cooperation that is precisely in this area. The Danish People's Party has just supported this so far, so if you have regretted that support, it is interesting for the Danish Parliament and the public to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210122937-2	We are not opposed to cooperation, for example in relation to repatriation, but we can be against the way it is done. We are opposed to this, and I hope it will not come as a surprise that the European Union is taking on more and more competences, that the European Union will have greater powers, in relation to when there will be border controls and where there will be border controls. We believe that this is something that each nation state must decide on a sovereign basis. So I hope it will not come as a surprise that it is the line of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123002	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Hans Andersen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123015	Thank you. Europe's outer borders have been under severe pressure in recent years. In 2015, we saw how Europe broke out and migration moved up through the European Union. The huge number of asylum seekers has increased the pressure to get new tools to help repatriate the aliens who have been denied their application. That is why the Left welcomes the new border and coastal regulation, which gives Frontex new powers, so that Frontex will in future have the task of organising, coordinating and conducting return operations and interventions on rejected asylum seekers. With regard to the new agency, each country must provide an observer with an impartial monitoring of compulsory broadcasts. The government has appointed the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament and that resolution supports the Left. The Left therefore also supports this bill, which gives the Ombudsman the power to supervise foreign authorities. He is not allowed to do so today, which is why a change is necessary. The draft law provides the best possible basis for compliance with the border and coastal regulations. The regulation gives Denmark better opportunities to return rejected asylum seekers and foreigners who are illegally staying in Denmark, and it supports the Left. Then I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that, unfortunately, they could not be here today, but that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123147	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123158	Thank you. The Enhedslisten has great confidence in the institution we know as the Danish Parliament Ombudsman. The very idea of the Ombudsman is from the Nordic countries and has in time become widespread to large parts of the world. In concrete terms, we have had an Ombudsman in Denmark since 1955 and it has been a well-functioning Ombudsman who has managed to keep the authorities in their ears and protect citizens. In the Enhedslisten, we regard the Ombudsman as an important part of Danish democracy, which is why we also see it as a matter of course that ministers and other authorities must respect and comply with the Ombudsman's statements. Every time a minister refuses to comply with the Ombudsman, it helps to undermine this good and fine institution. This was the case, for example, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration commented on the Ombudsman's criticism of the government's ads in the Lebanese newspapers back in 2015. And because it is sometimes questionable whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration sufficiently appreciates the Ombudsman's work and role, we find it particularly pleasing to see this bill from this very minister, because the bill gives the Ombudsman a new task. We see this as a deserved pat on the back of the Ombudsman's office. In Denmark, the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament supervises forced broadcasts of rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners without a Danish residence permit. In other countries, it may be NGOs such as the Red Cross or ecclesiastical organisations, but here we have a well-functioning Ombudsman institution, which we are pleased with and with which the task lies well. Now, as something completely new, we want to give the Ombudsman the power to monitor foreign authorities in the context of joint forced evictions under Frontex. Here it is in fine continuation of the purely Danish broadcasting operations that it is from Denmark the Danish Parliament Ombudsman who is part of this pool of observers who are supposed to keep an eye on the compulsory broadcasts, which we are therefore, as a starting point, also positive about. This is to a limited extent a way of exporting the Ombudsman's work as the quality product it actually is. It has certainly given us Danes quality at home. The proposal raises a number of questions about the mandate and basis of assessment and how the public can learn about any criticism that may come from the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament in cases of Frontex broadcasting. Of course, we will look at this question in the course of the committee's proceedings. However, I would like to emphasise that we are in favour of the draft law as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123522	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123532	Thank you. Last year the European Parliament and the Council adopted a regulation setting up a European Border and Coast Guard Agency. The Agency will have a number of tasks in coordinating, organising and conducting return operations and interventions concerning rejected asylum seekers and other non-legal aliens. With this bill, the government is actually proposing to adapt Danish legislation so that we can follow the regulation, and it supports the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123605	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123617	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, the reason for this bill is that we need to strengthen the European Border and Coast Guard, in everyday terms Frontex. This means, among other things, that there will be extended tasks for the Agency. It will be granted a oversight function, vulnerability assessment, new procedures for situations requiring rapid action, including: European cooperation on coastguard functions and increased cooperation with third countries and a large number of other things. In the alternative, we can support the amendment of the law because of the regulation on the European Border and Coast Guard, as the consideration of our international commitments will still be at the heart of the Ombudsman's supervision of the return of refugees without legal residence from other EU countries. The government writes in the comments to the bill that the background to the proposal is the great pressure on the EU's external borders. Unfortunately, however, we are seeing at the moment that the only thing that the Member States of the European Union can agree on is how to keep people fleeing their countries of origin out of the European Union, as we do, among other things. has seen it with the Turkey Agreement and the recent moves towards Libya. That is why I would also like to make it clear that, for the alternative, it is not enough for the Member States to be able to agree on how we can keep refugees out of Europe. We believe that there is a huge need for the Council to now agree on solutions to why so many people are fleeing their countries of origin in these years and what we should do with them once they have come here. This requires compromises, and it requires that we do not focus solely on how we benefit Danish interests. That is why we in the alternative would like to see the Danish side engage constructively in the work of the Council on how to create a European refugee key and how to help the countries of origin from which they are fleeing. The bill then states that it is the Parliamentary Ombudsman who will in future be responsible for supervising foreign authorities in European broadcasts under the regulation. This means, of course, that the Ombudsman will have to supervise police authorities from other Member States. It is, of course, the case that the Ombudsman is already exercising independent supervision of national compulsory broadcasts, and that is why the observations on the draft law state that it is appropriate that the Ombudsman should also supervise the compulsory broadcasts under the regulation. We can also fully support this in the alternative. We think that is a very sensible idea. So, all in all, a positive feedback from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123859	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210123908	Thank you. This bill is basically about the strengthening of the EU's external borders and joint action between European countries to do what we all talk about very often. The reason why we then have a legislative proposal is, as you know, that Denmark has a legal reservation and therefore cannot implement these things if we do not do so in the form of a legislative proposal. Fortunately, the government is proposing this, and we support it in the Radical Left. We are constantly talking with one voice about strengthening the external borders and strengthening the efforts there: the European Union must pull itself together, and it is important that we get the external borders under control. But if, at the same time, we prevent this from happening, I think that the argument falls pretty much apart. The second part of the proposal, which deals precisely with the role of the Ombudsman and the extension of the mandate of that institution, is also fully supported. It is very good that there is supervision, as we do in the case of broadcasts from Denmark. Now, as the Alternative's rapporteur pointed out, we lack the rest of the cooperation and the will to tackle the other challenges, so that we really have realistic solutions. This is true both in the neighbourhoods, there is a lack of help so that people do not also flee there, because there is no access to education and other things, and, of course, in the context of cooperation between the EU countries, to create realistic solutions for the refugees who are already here. But we fully support this reinforcement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210124124	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. The next in the rapporteur's line is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210124139	It is clear from the observations made in the proposal that the government had actually expected that what is proposed here could be transposed into current Danish law. That is not the case. That is why we are dealing with this draft law today, but it is, in our view, fairly uncontroversial that the Ombudsman should have the competence assigned to him here, and it is indeed important that he should have it. That's why we can support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210124209	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210124218	Thank you. First of all, thank you for, yes, I do not know whether we can say the debate, but at least for the approval of the legislative proposal that lies here. Many refugees and migrants have come to Europe in recent years. It has put a great deal of pressure on the EU's external borders, and it has put pressure on all countries, including, of course, Denmark. Some of the foreigners who have come to Europe will reside illegally or will be refused asylum applications. There is therefore a need to strengthen efforts to send out rejected asylum seekers and other foreigners without legal residence. This then applies not only to Denmark, but to all the states of the European Union. In order to strengthen the Union's external borders, on 14 September 2016, the European Parliament and the Council adopted the so-called Border and Coast Guard Regulation. The regulation has created a European Border and Coast Guard Agency. The Agency is a further development of Frontex, which is the European Union's border agency, and will continue to be called Frontex in general. With the regulation Frontex gets among other things. In future, Frontex will have to strengthen its responsibilities in the field of broadcasting. work to strengthen the deployment effort by carrying out pan-European broadcasts of illegal aliens in the territory of the Union. In this context, the regulation provides for a group of so-called observers to monitor the implementation of compulsory broadcasts coordinated by Frontex in full compliance with, inter alia, the provisions of the regulation. the fundamental rights. It is already the case today that the Ombudsman is overseeing, as several of the rapporteurs have said, when the Danish police are conducting national compulsory broadcasts. This supervision is governed by Article 30a of the Aliens Act. This is an independent and well-functioning supervision, and I therefore propose with the proposal that it should also be the Ombudsman who will be responsible for overseeing the compulsory broadcasts carried out under the regulation. Here, the Ombudsman will then have to supervise police authorities from other Member States. Today, the Ombudsman is not authorised to supervise foreign authorities, and we therefore need to change this in the Aliens Act, and that is exactly what several rapporteurs have also mentioned in the draft law. As you know, ministries have been in dialogue with the Bureau of Parliament, as the bill regulates the Ombudsman's tasks. The Bureau has agreed that I am just putting forward the bill. In addition, the Ministry has been in dialogue with the Ombudsman of the Danish Parliament, who has indicated that he agrees to take on the task if the Danish Parliament so decides. So, finally, there is only to say that, of course, I thank you very much for your support. And, of course, there is also the fact that the Frontex regulation is, of course, covered by the Danish legal reservation. However, the regulation constitutes an extension of the Schengen acquis, and in this case, according to so-called Schengen technicality, Denmark can decide and implement the regulation in Danish law. At the same time, with the adoption of the bill, the Folketing gives its consent through Article 19 (1) of the Constitution. 1, to announce on behalf of Denmark in the Council of the European Union that Denmark has decided to transpose the regulation into Danish law. I should also like to point out that the draft law is proposed as soon as it is adopted. The aim is precisely to ensure that we get the last piece in place as soon as possible so that we can fully meet the requirements of the regulation. In fact, by 14 March of this year we will have to inform the European Commission that we intend to transpose the regulation into Danish law. That is why we need to get legislation in place as soon as possible. But thank you for your kind reception.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210124702	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170210124719	Today there is the following further review: Minister for Employment (Troels Lund Poulsen): Bill no. L 133 (Proposal for a law on a temporary job premium for the longterm unemployed, etc.). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday 21 February 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
