ParlaMint-DK_20171027100006	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100018	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100036	This bill has come into being for the benefit of patients. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill and thinks it's a good bill. After all, the social democracy generally wants patients to be relieved of all their discomforts and pains associated with disease. We also know that development has given patients very good medicine and that the medicine helps a great many patients. But we also know that there are some patients who fail and have to try out in despair and desperation because the medicine prescribed by the doctor does not work. Many citizens and patients come out self-medication with alternative products, and this is where cannabis comes in. Many patients report a good effect where medications, for example, also medicines containing cannabis have not had enough effect. The cannabis products that citizens go out and buy are not legal, so they have to buy the products on the black market and also have to live with the great uncertainty associated with the products because they are not safe, they are not quality-rated. From a political point of view, we have listened to these patients and that is why we are setting up an experimental scheme, and I would like to say that what we are doing is quite an alternative. While we are making the experimental scheme, one of the objectives is that we want to know more. We need to learn more about what medical cannabis can do in the right dosages compared to the right patient groups. For this reason, the Danish Medicines Agency has been asked to appoint four groups which know that medical cannabis has a positive effect here. It is sclerosis patients, it is spinal cord damaged, it is patients with chronic pain, and it is patients who have nausea and vomiting after chemotherapy. So they have been appointed by the Danish Medicines Agency. We want to have this whole area tested within a controlled framework, where it is doctors who print and where it is pharmacists who hand over. We think this is a very good proposal. There have been many constructive consultation responses, but the consultations have also shown that there are knots and uncertainties in relation to the legislative proposal that lies here. For example, it is made clear that we are so lacking in knowledge about effects and side effects, and this makes a number of doctors say that they do not feel able to print on that basis. Another issue that has been raised is which doctors should prescribe. Yes, there are also many who ask questions about how we can gather knowledge and generate research, so in the future, when we are going to do the evaluation in 2 and 4 years, we are on a basis that is different from what is the starting point today. The Social Democratic Party will enter these areas towards the third reading. How do we set the right framework for research so that we can raise the patient perspective? After all, we know that research can take place both quantitatively and qualitatively, and we want the Minister to enter into a discussion with those who know something about it, in other words in terms of how to create a more secure and good framework so that we can generate the knowledge that is needed. We have to make sure of that. We must not risk being in the political circle in two or four years' time to evaluate an experimental system and then have not become wiser. We in the Social Democratic Party think that we owe it to patients, and we owe it to all the health professionals who have to work on the trial system, so that they know that this is the framework we have set up politically and that we have listened to what they are saying. Another element of this legislation is that medical cannabis production must be ensured in Denmark, and that a special scheme must be created so that horticulture with the necessary security, so that they comply with the UN conventions in this area, can produce for the Danish market and also for the international market. There is a major development in the use of medical cannabis in many countries, and in the Health Committee we have also discussed this situation with several colleagues in other countries. And that is why, of course, we in Denmark must ensure that supply and demand are in an appropriate relationship with each other. The Social Democratic Party supports this bill with the comments I have made here, and I very much look forward to continuing with the Minister and the rapporteurs the very long and thorough discussion we have had about medical cannabis. Because we want to raise the patient perspective in an area that is perceived by some as controversial, but where we can see that it is necessary to take the ball politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100558	Thank you. There is one brief comment for the time being. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100604	Thank you. Well, that's just a brief comment. I would just like to ask the rapporteur something and thank him for the rapporteur's speech. I very much agree with virtually everything. One of the outstanding issues, or not outstanding, but one of the concerns in the consultation answers is about what has been talked about so much: subsidies and prices for the products that are coming. We have tried to negotiate a subsidy in vain so far, and we are not going to give up entirely on the alternative, so I would just like to hear: is the Social Democrats prepared to continue negotiations on grants to patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100635	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100636	Thank you for the question. Yeah, absolutely we are. And it is also my understanding that we are in the group of rapporteurs, and I also believe that the Minister has nodded several times to the fact that we are following this very closely. For it is clear, as the rapporteur says, that there are some points of balance that we need to be aware of. How is this experimental medical cannabis going to be in a balance with the illegal medical cannabis? And this is where we want to move the patients who are self-medication into a safe, secure framework where doctors and pharmacists are responsible. But it is clear that the price here is also crucial. So we are very much in favour of discussing this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100718	Thank you. Then there are no more questions. Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027100727	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the interest shown by the Minister, because it was not exactly the best words that he got on the road when the Alternative came up with a motion for a resolution and also thanks to the Alternative, which we fortunately saw as a majority in favour of. But I think it is really nice to see that most parties are gradually backing it up, and so I also say that the Minister has shown a great deal of interest and at the same time also taken the initiative that we can now be allowed to grow it during the trial period in Denmark to see if we can do it as cheaply, easier and better than if we are going to export it from other countries, which we would have very difficulty with. It has been a long round, and I remember when we were told that it should only start on 1 January 2018 that we thought there was a really, really long time at that time, and we would have wanted it sooner. But now we can begin to see an end to the wait and we look forward to getting started on 1 January. Today it is the case that more and more people resort to medical cannabis when they cannot be helped by the medication that we otherwise have available. I have spoken and written with a great many people while we have had these debates, which have either tried it themselves, or have relatives who go out on the black market to buy cannabis in various forms. Unfortunately, they do not always know what they buy when they buy it on the black market, and sometimes they buy it from criminals, plus that they criminalize themselves when they buy the prohibited drug that they are now doing to help their loved ones at home. I have talked to relatives of cancer patients who have told how they have had to seek advice out at Christiania and many times have not known what they came home with. But they have been able to tell how cannabis could give the cancerous disease calm, peace for pain as well as increased appetite. I've been talking to sclerosis patients, telling them how to stop the cramps and make them relax more. I've been talking to epilepsy patients who say it's reducing their seizures. Unfortunately, epilepsy patients are not included in the experimental scheme that we agreed on. Some of us would have wanted that, but this bill is a compromise to bring as many parties as possible. Therefore, it is also sad that we hear the stories where there are some now going out and trying to help some people with medical cannabis. At present there are also legal proceedings against some who have sold non-euphoric CBD oil. And we believe that we will also have to deal with that when we get started here, because there is a real difference between what we call cannabis oil, because some of it is not euphoric. This is one of the things we can see that epilepsy patients get written out to them or pick up in Germany, which is actually legal. But that applies only to those people who have the resources to go to Germany and go to a German doctor, get a prescription, get the cannabis oil home and then take it. And that is where I think, as we get started, we need to look at the different products, the different kinds of cannabis. The doctors will come with us when we get there. I understand that they are confused because there are no guides or treatment strategies. That is why we are also holding a conference in the Committee on Health and the Elderly, where we invite some doctors from the countries that use it. It is Holland that has been using it for almost 12 years. It is Canada. It is Israel that we can learn something about use and effect, so that we can become wiser and hopefully our doctors can also become wiser so that we can give them better guidance and a strategy on how to use it. Because, of course, this can be used by very sick people who have tried every other medicine on many occasions. So we can only look forward to getting started and getting so much smarter all together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101140	Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101146	Thank you again. I will not ask everyone the same question, but I am asking it right to the big parties, because I think it is actually important. This is, in fact, the same question that I put to the Social Democratic Party: the debate on trying to find a subsidy for patients, because it is no secret that we have been sitting together sometimes now and trying to find solutions on which we could agree. It has not yet succeeded, and I am a little worried, so I would really just like to hear: is the Danish People's Party prepared for us to continue the negotiations in the circle of agreements here in order to try to find some money to fund medical cannabis?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101217	First of all, we don't know what it's going to cost when it's that we can grow it at home. Of course, it is only a small seed that you get massively many of from such a weed plant to be planted, and then it actually grows all by itself and needs only a little water. So when it comes to how much it's going to cost, I expect it'll be something cheaper when it's grown at home. However, I would also like to say that it must also be the case that the pensioner can afford to have medical cannabis on a regular pension. But the problem is that we have had a lot of discussions in committee and we cannot agree, because where you want to take money, we do not want to take money. With the opportunities we have had, other patients will suffer, and we will not be involved in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101300	Thank you. We don't want to be indicted directly. It's gonna be okay, yeah. Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101311	I was elected to Parliament for the first time in 2011, and I cannot remember a parliamentary year without discussing medical cannabis in some form, either here in the Assembly Hall, for meetings or for debates. And now we are here again, but with a completely different and very, very strong common starting point in a political wagering pool agreement to set up an experimental system of medical cannabis. Because we agree that we need to learn more about what medical cannabis is for a size, and whether medical cannabis can help Danish patients or how. This summer I attended the Folke meeting at Bornholm, and I was fortunate enough to be invited to a debate on medical cannabis with the actress and comedian Søs Egelind. And in connection with the debate, I got an insight into Søs Egelind's choice, her challenges and her motivation, because Søs is one of the many patients who have tried their own way with the effects of cannabis not medical cannabis, but cannabis. And no matter how we turn it around, self-medication is a bad idea. Because when you trade on the black market, you don't know what you get, in what quantities, and whether it has the desired effect on, for example. pain. We must listen to Danish patients when they demand treatment, but we should not have our heads under our arms, if that is the case. Neither have we, fortunately, because now we are setting up an experimental system of medical cannabis with a sound framework around it. And it has been a priority for us in the Left throughout the negotiation process to ensure that we have a look for patient safety. We know that with the experimental scheme here we are giving pain patients, cancer and sclerosis patients and spinal cord injuries a new opportunity to be medicated with medical cannabis. But we also know that we are moving into an area of non-approved preparations. This makes great demands on the treating physician, for it is, as with all other medicines, a medical assessment which must be the basis for the prescription of medical cannabis and it is essential that the doctor carefully informs the patient of any risks involved in the treatment. For us in the Left, it is and has been crucial that the right of ordination of doctors is preserved. I have noted that the Cannabis Denmark association, in their hearing answer, expresses their wish to be able to buy cannabis without prescription in cannabis shops. If we on the Left do not support that wish, it is partly because the experimental scheme here does not mean the legalisation of cannabis. We must and must bear in mind that traditional cannabis is harmful to health and that the same can apply to medical cannabis. To send out other signals would be deeply problematic, especially in relation to our young people, whom we want to shield against drugs. I have also taken note of the doctors' concerns regarding proper information for patients, possible increased pressure on a patient's request for medical cannabis products and lack of evidence at all. Let me say straight away that I have a great deal of sympathy for the whole range of concerns, but let me also point out that the experimental scheme does not, of course, provide for any significant changes in relation to the opportunities that already exist today, where practitioners, for example, are concerned. can prescribe magistrelly manufactured cannabis products. In addition, it is also crucial that cannabis products will not be the first choice and are prescribed on the basis of informed consent, as well as stricter information requirements for the physician. Last but not least, one of the aims of the experimental scheme is precisely to help create a more solid knowledge and experience base for medical cannabis treatment. And that is why it is, for example. critical that the established system of adverse reactions focuses closely on monitoring, including: in relation to indications, prescription patterns, side effects and consumption. Work on the experimental system has been thorough. I do not have any figures on how many hours we have spent in each other's company, and I would like to thank the parties for their constructive cooperation. Whether we have talked to patient associations, pharmacists or doctors, the dialogue has been positive and everyone has shared a desire to find a form that could form the basis for an agreement. And it's a huge force, but at the same time there's a little work to be done before we get there. In the process, we have spent many hours discussing how to get enough cannabis to meet the expected needs. We have looked particularly closely at the Netherlands, but we must recognise that we are unlikely to be able to meet the demand from imports, for example. Holland alone. And that is why I am sincerely pleased that the government has now taken the initiative to initiate, in parallel with the examination of the bill here, a process to give Danish producers the opportunity to stimulate cannabis production. Why import from the Netherlands if we can, and perhaps even can, lay the foundations for a new export and earnings option? Recently I visited Katrine and Alfreds's Tomatoes on Funen with the Minister for Health. In the nursery you are ready to embark on a Danish production of standardised cannabis products for medical use, and the strict safety requirements, special production and employee requirements, are fully committed to meeting. It is in every way pleasing that Danish companies have a look for a new business area and dare bet. The medical cannabis trial scheme must come into force as early as 1 January 2018, so from here it is just to say: Get started. The Left supports the bill and we look forward to following the experience of the next few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101858	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027101913	Thank you. From Enhedslisten's side, we are certainly in favour of this bill, which is designed to ensure an experimental scheme of medical cannabis. We know that there are patients, for example. cancer, sclerosis, epilepsy, arthritis and pains, which today themselves are taking cannabis. The vast majority are forced into the illegal market, at the risk of products being unclean or of poor quality and at the risk of being convicted and punished, despite the fact that their only crime is that they do anything to relieve their pain. We want more patients to have the opportunity to test whether medical cannabis can help them. Here we are, for example. agree with the view of the Danish People's Party, which came out here from the platform. This must, of course, be done in a close dialogue with the doctor. Back in 2014, Enhedslisten will therefore make a proposal here in the Danish Parliament which should allow trials on medical cannabis, for example. by the fact that the Dutch product, Bedrocan, could be released in Denmark, and finally also that users of medical cannabis should be exempted from punishment. We also supported back in the period 2015-16 a proposal from the Alternative to introduce a trial scheme for medical cannabis. So it is gratifying that there is now a majority in the Folketing that we can get started. Enhedslisten isn't with this deal. This is not due to so much criticism of the content, although we think that there are some things missing, but it is due to the fact that it is the parties in the pool that have concluded the agreement, and we are not, as you know, taking part in it. We think it is deeply unreasonable that not all taxpayers should contribute to the financing of such a proposal, but that it should be left to some of those in society who have the least, namely people on transfer incomes. So to the proposal itself, where, despite the positive approach to it, we lack some things. Firstly, we miss the fact that there is much sharper focus on the fact that it is an experiment and that the purpose is precisely for this reason to collect knowledge about the effects of medical cannabis and that as many as possible are included in clinical trials. It is extremely important that we gain more knowledge in order to assess how medical cannabis should be regulated in the future. The parties to the agreement have set aside a pool for research alongside the bill, but there is no certainty that this means that virtually all patients are being followed, and I noted with attention the comments of the Socialist rapporteur that it was also very important for the Socialists to follow up on the research side of the matter. Secondly, we miss the fact that epilepsy patients can also be included in the trial scheme, and I noted that the Danish People's Party also wants this. It is also recommended in the joint note from Danske Patients, the Medical Association and the Danish Cancer Society, the Epilepsy Association, the Arthritis Association and the Multiple Sclerosis Association, so it is a very broad circle of interest organisations and patient organisations that support that view. Thirdly, it is a major problem in order to put into practice the intention behind the draft law that there is no subsidy for patients. This means that it can be very expensive to buy medical cannabis, and that would exclude a large group of patients, many of whom already have a low income and many medical expenses. It has also emerged from the Information coverage of the case that some patients thereby feel compelled to continue to buy medical cannabis illegally. So there should also be a solution to this. With those comments and requests for improvements, I must inform you that Enhedslisten can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027102300	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027102311	Thank you. Many patients in Denmark are treating themselves with cannabis, and they do, because they have major health problems, and cannabis helps them to cover some terrible pains or alleviates lack of appetite after chemotherapy. Another area where patients experience an incredible effect on cannabis is for example: by spasms. Patients often experience severe side effects with other products, while cannabis just makes everyday life more tolerable, but common to the patients is that they, as the law is today, are considered criminal, while at the same time you cannot be sure of the content when buying it on the criminal market. In a number of other countries cannabis has been legal for many years, in the Netherlands about 12 years, and I have never heard of side effects, never read about side effects or seen analyses showing side effects. I assume that Holland would have observed it if cannabis as a medicine had posed a health hazard. According to Tina Horsted, a specialist in anaesthesia and pain treatment and a former head doctor at the Rigshospitalet Interprofessional Pain Center, there is evidence of use of cannabis in nerve pain, nausea following chemotherapy, stimulation of appetite loss, muscle spasms in sclerosis patients. According to the Danish Health Authority, experience from Canada shows good indications of these groups of patients. Against this background, almost all parties in the Folketing have finally supported a four-year trial scheme of cannabis for medical use. It is a great pleasure for many patients and also for me and the Liberal Alliance, who have wanted and fought for this for a long time. If introduced by law, patients will in future be able to use cannabis for medical use without entering the criminal market. You can get advice and advice from a doctor, which can be a little difficult to get at Christiania, and a patient can be sure of what the product actually contains. I would like to thank in particular Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative for the efforts of the Alternative in this area, and I would also like to thank our current Minister for Health for a very positive attitude. It is difficult to find good arguments against the use of cannabis for medical use. Some doctors are concerned because they believe that politicians are interfering in what to print for their patients. But the politicians do not. Printing must be based at all times on a medical assessment. All we do is give the doctors the opportunity to use it. A medical assessment may also provide for the use of cannabis in patients outside the four categories specifically covered by the scheme. The Danish Health Service will send out adequate information and guidance to the doctors. This information will be taken from countries with many years of experience in the use of cannabis for medicine. I sincerely hope that the doctors will make use of this opportunity. And yes, more research would be desirable and I hope we will find a solution to that. A major problem is the price level, and it is really a pity that we have not managed to find funding for a subsidy scheme at this stage. I am very sorry, but I have not given up, but hope that we will find a solution to this in the course of next year. I can also hear it from several rapporteurs, and I know that all around there is support for it, we just need to agree on funding. However, there is some hope for lower prices, even without a subsidy scheme, because the current price level is based solely on imports, but another major result that we have achieved is a simultaneous experimental scheme for the production of cannabis for medicine in Denmark, and my hope is that it will provide significantly lower prices and at the same time create good Danish jobs and exports for the benefit of the Danish economy. All of this is a win-win situation, a day of joy, especially for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027102739	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one has any comments. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027102748	Thank you. We were standing here about two years ago, and I can't remember whether it was in October or November two years ago, I think it was one of the first resolutions of the Alternative at all, so ever, we had just been elected to Parliament and it was with this motion for a resolution to be able to give medical cannabis to patients. And it is true, as Mrs Liselott Blixt said, that it did not happen at the time, because there was confusion about what it really was, how it was to be screwed up and what model it should be etc. It was a fairly general resolution that we adopted at the time. However, the subsequent process has shown how we can also work together in the Folketing, and I think we should clap each other a little bit on the shoulders of today. It has certainly taken a long time to achieve this, but it has also been thorough discussions, and that has been a lot of discussion. We haven't achieved our goal yet, and I come back to that, there are things that could still get better away. In the subsequent process I have experienced a great deal of cooperation initially from the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, which so much helped to push for the then Minister of Health to call for negotiations, because obviously there was a majority outside the government who had a great desire to get this arrangement in place. So it has been a really nice process, and thanks for that to all those who have been part of it. That is why it is a good day today when we are able to say that soon we are pressing the button with which the whole parliament agrees to an experimental scheme of medical cannabis for the Danish patients who have so much asked for it here for many, many years. Of course, this is not a perfect agreement; that is what I mentioned before. There are still elements that could be improved, and I mentioned in my questions that I still think it is a major problem that it might be very expensive. We don't know. It is true, as Mrs Liselott Blixt says, that if we get this Danish production up and running, it should be much cheaper than if we are going to import it from abroad. But there are many uncertainties in it, and that worries me a little bit, in relation to how the scheme gets up and running, because if it gets so expensive that it's going to cost on the other side of 2,000 kroner. For a patient, I think there are many who simply cannot afford it and who will resort to the existing black market, and that is a great concern. So I still hope that we can continue the negotiations so that we may find some money for subsidies, and I would urge the Minister to call for negotiations on that. I think I have now called for it many times and have also been a little empathetic to write to the Ministry and have asked them to call for negotiations, but from here another call for it. One of the concerns, as Mrs Liselott Blixt mentioned, is the wish of the Epilepsy Association to be part of the scheme. We had also brought that to the table and have thus worked for it all the way through. That has not been met. It is the case that a patient can receive treatment if the individual doctor considers that one can vouch for it from the medical team, so it is not the case that an epilepsy patient cannot get medical cannabis through this scheme. However, it would have been desirable for epilepsy patients to be on the list, especially when there are relatively good indications for what the Epilepsy Association itself argues for. So I hope that, if only in the course of this process, so that the epilepsy patients do not have to wait for four years, we can resume the issue and perhaps consider including them on the list, especially if there is new research that shows more evidence in this area. Another concern is how we're going to follow the patients. 5 million kr. is very, very little. Everyone knows that. I myself have worked with health research, and all scientists know that 5 million. kr. to perform a clinical trial is immensely little, so how much do we get out of that 5 million? kr.? You can be a little bit worried about that. I would urge that patients entering the scheme be followed, not only on side effects, which have been proposed in the legislative proposal, but also on effects. I know that it is not a clinical trial, but everything else equal, if you follow the patients on some self-esteemed health effects, you can get some indications that are not weighed as heavily as when we talk clinical evidence, but nevertheless may well mean something in the overall picture at the end of the trial scheme. And it doesn't cost anything, it's just an extra box that you can tick in. So I would really like to call for this to be reconsidered when you follow these patients, if it cannot be done continuously during their visits to the doctor, so that they are all included in some kind of assessment, i.e. not only an assessment of whether there are side effects, but also an assessment of the effect of the preparations. Finally, in relation to the Danish production, I would like to thank the Minister a lot for helping us to do this, because we were, in fact, sitting there a year and a half ago asking the former Minister for Health for the same thing, and there was certainly no opening up to it, so there are others who are moving too, and I think that is so positive, and I have great expectations of how it is going to look with Danish production of cannabis in Denmark. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103257	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103304	As many of the other rapporteurs have said, we have been discussing for many years here in the Danish Parliament whether we should legalize medical cannabis, and with this trial scheme we are actually doing something that we do not normally do here in the Danish Parliament. We decide to conduct a trial with some products that have not yet been fully tested for several years and where there is no full evidence of the effect. But when we do it anyway, it is because we of course know that really, very many people have had incredibly great help and also gained an increase in their quality of life by using various medical cannabis products. Those people today have to buy their products on an illegal market where there is no control over what products are sold and what products they then consume. With this law, we are helping a lot of people, politically speaking, who today live in great pain or have massive nausea after chemotherapy, with, provided that their doctor estimates it to be able to buy medical cannabis completely legally at the pharmacy. At the same time, we are pushing for a development to gain more knowledge in this area. We have wanted from the radical side for many years more research and more evidence of the effects of medical cannabis, but we have practically run our forehead against a wall every time, both from the research side, but in part also from the medical side. We are therefore very pleased that the Danish Parliament is now united in getting both the development of cannabis products started and in gaining more knowledge and evidence in the field. So the Radical Left can, of course, support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103518	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is just one brief comment from Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103524	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. At one point, the rapporteur's party, the Radical Left, made a major campaign with big banners, which were all over the city, saying: we are listening, including to experts. And now that the experts can't give this medical cannabis a stamp for being valid, for having the same effect, to live up to the quality that we normally require of medicines, why does the Radical Left not listen to experts in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103555	Well, because there are different experts in this area, I would like to start by saying that, and I also think I made it clear in my rapporteur's speech that there is a weighting and that we are doing something today that we do not normally do. Because there has been, we know, great resistance both to entering a research part, but there is still a relatively high resistance on the part of doctors. We would have liked to see it started many years ago by doing more research in this area. It has not been possible, that research has not started up, and that is why we have today considered that this trial scheme is a way to get started, and it is very important for us that it is still a doctor who assesses it, and one cannot decide alone with oneself whether one can go up to the pharmacy and buy medical cannabis. There must always be a doctor with us, and we think that is a sort of expert.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103657	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103658	Surely there can be no doubt that those who are the real experts in this are those who sit and approve medicines in Denmark and who usually make demands that all sorts of other drugs have to meet. But right with this drug, because there has been a popular mood, we choose to say: then it's okay, then it doesn't have to meet the same demands that we make on all sorts of other medicines. It may well be that some patients have benefited from this, but there are also patients who have benefited from all sorts of other treatments that are illegal today and that we will not allow, so I would like to ask again: why do we not listen to the experts we normally listen to when it comes to the use of medicines in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103736	But again, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, it is also a balance. We would very much like research to have some more evidence in this area. We've just run our forehead against a wall, and we haven't been able to get that research going. That is why we are pleased that, on the one hand, we are making an experimental scheme today, and, on the other hand, that we can follow it closely over the next four years, both in terms of obtaining evidence, but also in terms of a pool of research, so that we can gain much more knowledge in this area. We think this is the way we get the evidence in this area that is so crucial to the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103818	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027103828	Thank you for the floor. It is with great pleasure that we are now finally being opened by a broad majority to trials using medical cannabis, both because there are a great many sick people today who say that they have or have benefited from the use of medical cannabis and because they have so far felt compelled to purchase the drug illegally or online. But it has also been equally important to us that we now have the opportunity to check the effects of a legally produced cannabis product produced under controlled forms, so that both users and health care can adjust and check the impact of the measured doses. The latter has been very important for SF when among others. The Medical Association, Danske Patients and the Danish Psychiatric Society have indicated that there is insufficient evidence of the effect of medical cannabis in relation to the criteria otherwise imposed on medicinal products before they can enter the market. Because although I recognise that many people experience that they have benefited greatly from medical cannabis, I also recognise that there are others who have had a different experience. However, in relation to the marketing of the product, we are sorry that no agreement could be reached on a reasonable subsidy scheme because the price for some patients may be feared to be too high, but that is what we could agree on in the conciliation circle, as others have also pointed out, and for SF it is not the price that should cause an otherwise sensible attempt to collapse. The parties to the agreement, as the Minister writes in the consultation note, agree to follow the area closely. Among other things: The medical association and a number of patient organisations have called for clinical trials with medical cannabis... that is what the SF wants to do... but with last year's rate pool agreement, as several have mentioned in the debate, a pool of 5 million has been set aside. kr., which can help to gain knowledge about the effects and also the side effects of the use of medical cannabis. In addition, we can, fortunately, draw on a whole range of other experiences, and then it is still permitted to continue working in the process, even when it is the case that we have to evaluate the experiments along the way. The SF can therefore give the proposal our full support on the road.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104054	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104102	Thank you. Let me start by saying that I have the greatest sympathy and sympathy for those patients who are in extreme pain who find it difficult to cover the pain with the preparations that exist today and who are in a desperate situation. I understand very well that they are looking for alternatives. I would not want to spoil the good atmosphere, because there has now been a very broad consensus on this in this Chamber today, but the Conservative People's Party is not part of the original agreement, of which this is a coinage. We will be voting in favour of it in the Chamber today. We do this because we have entered a government where you are in a community and where you vote together. There the government has decided to vote in favour of this proposal and that is why we are doing it on the conservative side. But I'm going to comment on why we originally didn't think it was a good idea to make this deal. For the Conservative People's Party, it is crucial that we have to have a common standard, a common set of rules, in relation to how to use new medicines in Denmark. In principle, we do not believe that it should be politicians who decide which medicines should be tried in Denmark. Basically, we believe that we have an authority to do this, to which we normally leave the task to which we normally trust those who have the experts, that it is they who have the best understanding. We have chosen to avoid this in this case, and we find it difficult to see the logic of that. After all, there are already medicines on the market that contain active substances from cannabis. There is, of course, nothing illegal in the fact that there may be active substances from cannabis in medicine today, but we are simply demanding that it should be documented that the effect, that quality, that safety is in order. And the products in which it has been proved have been used on the Danish market. I am very impressed when you see a lot of experts in this area, doctors, medical examiners in the field of pain relief, who go out and distance themselves from this. After all, the Medical Association has very, very clearly warned against what we politicians are doing here in the Parliamentary Chamber today. I found a quote from Svidenskab.dk from September 11, where Gitte Handberg, head doctor at Pain Center South, says: "We have no idea how medical cannabis works. For example, we do not know enough about whether patients become addicted to the drug and what other side effects it can have in the long term, and she also says: "I simply do not understand that our politicians think it is safe to place it on the market without the safety measures that normally apply when using new medicines. Conservatives have no problem with the inclusion of cannabis in medicines, but we just want to make the same demands that it should be possible to demonstrate that the effect, safety and quality are top. So in this case we agree with the Danish Health Service, with the Medical Association and with the 2,500 doctors and researchers who were gathered for a major conference in Copenhagen recently on pain research, and where the message from them was: This is too unknown a country for us to use. So the Conservative People's Party has many concerns about the proposal that is in the Chamber today, but we also have the hope, of course, that it can provide some of the knowledge we are asking for. We hope that this will be the positive thing that can come out of what we are adopting in the Assembly today, namely that we can get some of the knowledge we are looking for. And if we get that knowledge, we get the documentation we want, yes, so I hope it can be approved as a medicine on equal terms with any other medicine in Denmark. I may be worried about whether the research part fills enough in this attempt, but in the Conservative People's Party we have respect for the fact that there is a very large majority in the Folketing that wants it here, and we will try to contribute constructively in the process that is coming now to make this arrangement as workable as possible. There should be no doubt about that. However, I would also like to say that the Conservative People's Party has, in principle, had some concerns about this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104529	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104533	Thank you very much. I would say that it is gratifying that the Conservative People's Party has come into government, because it makes a difference here. I think the rapporteur had some interesting comments at the end, because that is exactly what I have made clear is the position of the Social Democrats that the research dimension and framework for this should be worked on towards third reading. I also find it exciting that the rapporteur says that this trial period is precisely what it is that it will be able to provide knowledge and experience so that we can stand on a different, more justified, informed basis in the future. That is what we want. Can the rapporteur not agree with me that it would have been desirable if there had been companies in the pharmaceutical industry which had developed these products and had applied for marketing authorisation and had received it and that those products had been on the pharmacy shelves? And can the rapporteur not confirm that this has not happened and that there are patients who are looking for these products and that, with a trial period, this might be one of the stepping stones for more knowledge?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104644	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104645	I am glad that the questioner is pleased that the Conservative People's Party has entered the government. Since the questioner himself was part of a government, proposals were also made for medical cannabis, but the questioners did not support this. At the time when it was proposed by the Alternative, the Social Democrats, as far as I remember, did not support it either. Now the Social Democratic Party has decided to be part of this anyway, and one may wonder a little when one is looking at it from the outside. But we must of course take that as an indication that the author's party has changed its position on this matter. And I can understand that, because there has been a great deal of public pressure on this issue, and I believe that the author's party has given in to this. I can't confirm that there are no companies that have been researching this and have made experiments. There are already products on the market that contain medical cannabis, but those products have just been approved; it has been possible to prove that they have the quality and safety that we demand. So, no, I cannot confirm that nobody is trying to do this, because there are already products on the market today, but they have been able to meet the safety requirements we are putting on new medicines.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104751	That's all. Thank you. Then there are no more rapporteurs or any more comments. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027104804	Thank you for your comments on the bill. I think that today's debate confirms the broad support for the legislative proposal and also for the pilot scheme that has been agreed in the pool of rates. I fully acknowledge, and this is also some of what has been said in a number of the rapporteur's contributions, and the consultation answers also show that there are places where we can look very much at, in terms of law-making, whether we can be even better at, for example. to make knowledge collection, and whether we compared to the 5 million. kr., which we have jointly set aside for the collection of knowledge, and where, after all, a pool has been reported out by the Danish Medicines Agency, which can be applied to in relation to randomized trials of precisely doing clinical trials in the area, can also be even more effective in ensuring that we collect the effect and knowledge that is available and thus ensure that the experimental scheme also subsequently, when it has been running for the four years, provides a much better basis for decision than what I know many people have felt there is at present. We know that there are patients today who are taking medication to make themselves feel better and to ease their pain. I believe that we have all received inquiries from, but have also met some of the patients who can tell that after being bedridden and having used large doses of painkillers for not only months, but for years, suddenly they can feel an effect that makes them feel that they can make everyday life hang together. They have used some of the magically manufactured products or some of the approved products that are already there today, which can make a huge difference for cancer patients compared to soothing nausea during a course of treatment. There is no doubt that when we, as a government, put forward the legislative proposal, it is also an indication that we can see that there is a group of patients today who do not see that they are being given the treatment they need, that the means and opportunities available today cannot sufficiently relieve pain, cannot adequately respond to the needs that exist. It is therefore also important that, in the light of the self-medication that we know is taking place today and the illegal market we know there is in this area, with the legislative proposal and with the experimental scheme, we have created a proper framework in this area, because it is not without the risk of meditating ourselves. It is not products that are without side effects, or products that you can just dose yourself, because it can have and it has consequences. Therefore, it is also important that we now create a proper framework for the use of medical cannabis and that we also ensure that there is a proper framework for how a doctor can prescribe it and how we get a fixed framework for health care in this area. In connection with the experimental scheme, the Danish Medicines Agency has pointed out some indications and patient groups that can be treated with medical cannabis in the experimental scheme. These are groups where there are, it has to be said, such a greater knowledge and broad recognition in relation to the experience of a beneficial effect. But it is also important to say, also as a result of some of the comments that have been made, that it is not an exhaustive list. It is, of course, an indicative list where we know more than we know in a number of other areas. Therefore, it will continue to be for the individual physician to assess whether a patient should be treated with medical cannabis. It will also be up to the individual doctor to say: I do not think I have a sufficient knowledge base. I do not think I have sufficient competence to prescribe this preparation. That is why he says that he cannot vouch for it. This is also one of the things that we have openly discussed politically, that is, that this competence should lie with the individual doctor, both when it goes beyond the four groups described in more detail in the experimental scheme, but also when it comes to being able to refrain from it. And then, fortunately, patients have their free choice to seek out others who then feel that they are more medically dressed to make these decisions. So doctors are not limited by the Danish Medicines Agency's assessment, but when there are going to be deviations, it must of course be justified professionally. So, in other words, there is a free right of prescription for the individual doctor, and I think that is important to emphasise, and there is also a free right to say no. The medical cannabis that can be included in the experimental scheme can come from abroad, and hopefully it can also come from Denmark, because that is at least what the government has put a lot of emphasis on by opening up a production permit in parallel with the experimental scheme. We also like to see Danish produced products which, of course, must meet the quality requirements that exist and that we can also get Danish produced cannabis and products into the scheme. That is why I also hope, and I think that we can see that there is an overwhelming interest in the cultivation scheme that has been withdrawn, and therefore I hope that the Danish producers will both seize the opportunity, but also ensure a high quality of Danish cultivated cannabis, so that we can get it into the Danish experimental scheme. You're being asked about medical supplements. We have had a large number of meetings, and this is not what Mrs Carolina Maier is suggesting, as Mrs Magdalene Maier suggests, that meetings have not been convened. Several meetings have been convened where we have discussed this. It has just not been possible to reach agreement on the financing of a subsidy scheme. But I also see that, as we have also written in the consultation note, there is a perception that we cannot directly predict what the price will be, and the assessment is that there will be a great difference in price depending on whether there will be Danish-produced medical cannabis, or whether we are dependent on buying it on the world market where there is already scratch on the products. It is therefore necessary that we follow this very closely and also follow the need for a subsidy system very closely. We have no wish, not even as a government, that this will be an attempt that is isolated for those who have an economic capacity in their purse to participate, because then it will not be the attempt that has the broad aim that we all want. That's why it's clear that we're following this closely. I hope that all the relevant parties, perhaps especially the doctors, now, with the legal treatment of this bill and with the entry into force of the experimental scheme on 1 January, will start to focus on the purpose of the experimental scheme and then remember who we are doing this for, namely patients. We're doing this to help people like this. have very severe pain and do not experience relief from conventional drugs. We are doing this because we have patients who are now part of an illegal market in this area and where we need, also politically speaking, to ensure that there is a proper framework. Then, of course, we have to recognise that we do not know much about the long-term effects, and that is why I also hope that during the trial period we will have a greater knowledge in this area, because it will benefit patients, as well as providing doctors and our health professionals with a better basis to stand on. Until we have the exact knowledge, if you can ever talk about getting it, but at least more knowledge in the field, which also makes people feel more comfortable in terms of ordination, then the Danish Medicines Agency will provide guidance in this area, which should help ensure that professionals also feel that they get the knowledge they need. As I said, we have also jointly created a pool of 5 million. kr., which will be used for experiments in the field to collect more knowledge and also to focus on the patient safety consequences of the trial scheme that we are implementing. So I would like to thank all the parties behind the agreement and those parties which also include the Enhedslisten, who have indicated that they will vote in favour today. I look forward to further cooperation in this important area. This is something that matters to a large number of patients who have not felt that they have received sufficient help in our traditional and conventional products.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105604	Thank you, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105609	Thank you so much. That is not why I asked for the floor, but I would like to clarify with regard to the negotiations: I did not say that no meetings had been convened, that was not what was intended at all. There have been, but I just mentioned that I had moved for it sometimes, and then there had also been a summons. But what I want to ask is whether the Minister for Health can reveal a little bit about what status is in relation to this import of cannabis from other countries and the prospect of Danish production. So, if there are any estimates, are there any calculations and expectations of how much of this we are going to be able to deliver on the Danish side, and are we still going to import from abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105645	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105646	I think that is all, far too early to say anything qualified about. We will expect to have to import, but in the case of the Danish cultivation scheme, which will come into force in parallel with the experimental scheme, i.e. per year. On 1 January, we have emphasized from the Danish Medicines Agency and also in the things that have been reported by the Ministry that if there were Danish applicants who had submitted their application here within approx. 1 week ago, i.e. before October 22nd, we took stock as per. On 25 October, we would also ensure that cases could be dealt with so that they could, in principle, get started per year. 1 January 2018, i.e. in parallel with the implementation of the experimental scheme. Of course, it will require that they can meet the requirements, both safety requirements in relation to employees, building safety requirements and, of course, product quality requirements, that they can qualify for this. The Danish Medicines Agency provided information on: On 25 October, 13 applications for Danish production had been received and a number of applications had been received for handling intermediate products, thus ensuring that we can also distribute it via pharmacies. So I'm confident.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105757	Thank you. And one more brief comment, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105804	Thank you. Thank you for the answer, we look forward to seeing what is happening on that front. Another question I would like to ask here today concerns some of the things I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, namely the epilepsy patients and their concerns about not being on the list. If, in the course of this trial period, new evidence, new research indicates that there is a beneficial effect beyond what may be research and evidence for today, will the Minister be open to discussing in the circle whether to include epilepsy on the list • i.e. if there is more research suggesting that it might be appropriate?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105836	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105841	Well, I think we're going to be discussing this on a regular basis, including what kind of knowledge we're getting. I believe that what is important to say, and as I said in my speech, is that the list of four areas is not, after all, a restrictive list in relation to each doctor's prescription options. But these are the recommendations of the Danish Medicines Agency in relation to those groups where you can see that there is an immediate effect and their assessment that the patient groups can benefit from medical cannabis. As far as epilepsy is concerned, we have been informed that the company called GW.I do not really think it should be said in relation to advertising.A phase 3 experiment is currently being carried out with a marketing-based and cannabis-based preparation which is aimed precisely at some of the rare and small forms of epilepsy. So there is much happening in the area of epilepsy when we speak medical cannabis.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105931	That's it, and that's it. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak and the debate is closed. Then I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027105958	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027110005	I have said many times here from the platform that one of the biggest challenges that our health services unfortunately have is the lack of doctors, the lack of health professionals. Now we have to make an adjustment to the Health Act, which among other things. I'm gonna have to look at this point. When we look at where it is that we lack the doctors, well then we know that it is primarily in the province as far as practitioners are concerned, but also in relation to other specialists. However, in socially disadvantaged residential areas too, there is unfortunately a great shortage of practitioners. A medical committee has been set up, it has spoken, and it did so at the beginning of the year. Immediately thereafter, the Minister for Health called for a political debate which we, on the part of the Socialist Group, recognised that we should take immediately, because the area is so serious and the consequences are so great for a great many citizens. That is where we all took political decisions together, and that is one of them. must be translated into the amendment of the Health Act here. We know that it is the five regions that are responsible and have the task of securing practitioners for all Danish citizens. It was a wish from all five regions that their time frame should be extended from four years to a longer period, and there we agreed politically on six years, compared to if they are going to run regional clinics where there are no practitioners to run their own outside numbers and their own clinics, or that there are no supply clinics that offer themselves. That's a really good change we're making here. Here we have been sensitive to those who have the task and responsibility, that is, the five regions. Another point we are also amending here in the Health Act is that we will make it easier if a general practitioner wants to buy an outer number from another general practitioner. We are making a system that is less bureaucratic. It is in itself still the same overall framework, namely that they may own no more than six outer numbers. The third and final element I would like to highlight here, which is a change, is that a change is also being made to the Patient Safety Finance Agency, where previously it was felt that the regions had to pay per person. Hospital unit. A simplification is now being made so that it will be a total fee per year. region. That all sounds right, and that is why we Social Democrats support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027110249	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no comments. Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027110300	Sometimes I feel like I belong to another generation, and that is mainly when we talk about doctors. You remember from your childhood that you came up to the doctor's house for the doctors you knew. They knew the whole family. We knew the nurse who patched me up in the face the times I came up there after being in too wild a game in the schoolyard. This is probably one of the things we fight for in the Danish People's Party, that is to say we get the family doctor back; but it is also probably one of the places where we can see that in the future there will be another way to contact our doctor. We have enormous challenges around the country, be it in rural areas and in residential neighbourhoods with citizens with many complex problems, in other words precisely in those areas where there are a great many elderly and sick citizens. It is sad that today we have clinics, either private or public, where doctors change so quickly that when the elderly or the very sick patient arrives, it is a new doctor sitting in the chair in front of them who must hear the entire patient's life story or read it out. We were very pleased with the medical coverage committee that was set up, which looked at all the places where there were some challenges. The question is whether it has become too late and that it should have been done years ago, as one could actually see that there were fewer and fewer doctors around. After all, this draft law, as previous rapporteurs have also said, provides that we are trying to make it easier to have doctors, at least in some of the places where we are lacking today. One thing is that we cannot get the family doctor back, but even worse is that there are some people who cannot have a doctor. I regularly get letters from people who write that they've now become a ghost patient because they don't have a permanent doctor or because they can't choose a doctor for themselves. They can't decide for themselves whether to be a man or a woman. It's so hard now, too, because there are a lot of female doctors. But there are some challenges in this area that we need to take seriously, and we have to say: well, this does not solve everything, but it is part of it. It is also, as you can see, that a doctor can now have more clinics. Of course, they cannot be at all clinics at the same time, but you can then hire some of the doctors who dare not buy a practice in a particular area. But I also think that we should listen to some of the good ideas being formulated by doctors. I read the other day that there was a doctor who actually lived in Greve Municipality who got a practice in Nysted. Then Region Sjælland suggested that the doctor start the work day from home, and she then got a bus to sit and work in. When she was picked up at 9:00. 8 in the morning, there was telephone consultation on the bus with the patients for the 11⁄2 hours it took to drive to Nysted, where the doctor could then accept the patients in his practice. When the doctor returned home, she could do all the writing on the computer. This could be done in a lot of places. It was an idea that the doctor himself came up with, and it was a region that seized it. Such ideas can also be very good at seeing how we can get doctors out into some of the areas where it is needed. At least I think it's a great idea. With this proposal, we can only say that we are happy that doctors are allowed to own more outside numbers. The regional clinics can now run for six years instead of four, although we hope that in time we can minimise the number of regional clinics because the doctors who are there are not there for a very long time at a time. However, we support the proposal and hope that more will be done in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027110708	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027110716	Today, we are dealing first with a bill to help ensure better medical coverage in Denmark. And it's a bill that I've really been looking forward to. Because whether you live in Fjerritslev, Faaborg or at Frederiksberg, you have to have easy access to a doctor. And that's a matter for us in the Left. That is why I was sincerely pleased when, on the basis of recommendations from the Government's Medical Protection Committee, all parties of the Folketing earlier this year concluded an agreement to ensure better medical coverage. I have an ambition that Denmark should be a country that is in a good balance, regardless of whether we are talking about relaxation of the law on plans, the distribution of state jobs or, as today, medical coverage. Then it is crucial that we do not disqualify opportunities for growth, for development and for being able to have the good life wherever you live in the country. Good life also includes the security that comes with having easy access to healthcare and health services. For more than 20 years, I have lived in Funen's largest rural community, and it has been fantastic years in every way, especially because we in my municipality have been fortunate enough to have full medical coverage. I'm the mother of three children, and I know what it means to have the family doctor close. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case in all parts of the country. In many rural areas and in socially vulnerable residential areas it is a struggle to ensure medical coverage. And whether you are a single mother with three children, chronicles or a poor elderly person, it should be the case that the family doctor's clinic is within an affordable distance. In Hjørring Municipality, the 2015 figures show that over 75%. of the medical practice in the municipality has closed the access of new patients, and in Odense Municipality the figure is somewhere between 50 and 75%. In both municipalities there are on average more than 1,700 patients associated with one full-time doctor. These are areas facing major challenges, both for patients and for doctors. Similarly, it is a real challenge that in about 40 municipalities is 10%. of doctors with general practice 65 years of age or older. So there is a recruitment challenge and is waiting within a relatively short period of time. As I mentioned earlier, Parliament's parties in February, on the basis of the recommendations of the Medical Protection Committee, concluded an agreement to ensure better medical coverage. Since then, general practitioners have agreed with the regions, which also implement parts of the recommendations of the Medical Protection Committee. But what has the Medical Protection Committee recommended, and what exactly are the initiatives we are implementing in the Health Act today? The medical coverage committee has compiled its recommendations under 18 headings. And today we are addressing a few of the recommendations under headings 7 and 8, which deal with more flexible forms of organisation in general practice and extended opportunities for regions to operate general medical clinics. Firstly, the draft law provides that general practitioners who wish to own more than one external number may purchase these directly from other general practitioners. Secondly, it is proposed that the regions should be allowed to run clinics for six years instead of four years, as we know it today. Both support the goal of better medical coverage and access to healthcare and high quality, no matter where in the country you live. Of course, when the draft law here gives us a strong focus on general practice, it is because general practice, such as the leading, advanced part of our healthcare system, is a cornerstone of the close and coherent healthcare system. We must and must ensure that general practice is developed and modernised as well as that it must of course be attractive to settle in the areas of Denmark, for example. has a negative social battle side or has many runners in general practice. No matter who you are or what you fail, you are entitled to high - quality treatment. And access to healthcare must not depend on your postal code. Whether you live in Fjerritslev, Faaborg or at Frederiksberg, you need easy and equal access to a doctor. A corner of the legislative proposal here, which I have not yet touched upon, is the simplification of the system for collecting fees in the context of risk-based supervision. As little bureaucracy and common sense as possible also in the field of health, we say yes in the Left. And that is why we in the Left also welcome the proposal to settle the financing of risk-based supervision per year. region rather than per region hospital unit welcome. The Left supports the bill as put forward, and we welcome the fact that we have now come a step closer to the ambition of a better balance for Denmark. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111227	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111239	Thank you very much, President. The previous rapporteurs have, of course, explained very well the elements of the draft law, so I can only deal with the reasons and our position on it. And we support this bill. Denmark has a serious problem with lack of doctors, partly in socially disadvantaged areas and partly in rural areas. It increases health inequalities when it is unfairly difficult for some citizens to have a doctor's time. The bill takes two steps to remedy it. It is not the world's biggest step, but it is a step in the right direction. Among other things, the proposal provides that the regions will be able to run clinics for longer than they are today, thereby also creating a more stable framework for regionalised clinics. We do not see any reason for a time limit on the part of the Enhedslisten, but this extension of the time frame is positive. We would also like the Danish Parliament to follow the recommendations of the Medical Protection Committee to abolish the existing legal requirement that instead it should be up to the regions whether they want to offer their services or run a clinic themselves. Unfortunately, there was no support for this in the negotiations on medical coverage. The second part of the bill makes it simpler for doctors to purchase outside numbers from other doctors who do not want to continue their practice. There is still the same limit to how many clinics a doctor may own. This can create more opportunities for doctors to become employed in general practice if they wish rather than own. Finally, the draft law contains a change to the Health Act, which has nothing to do with the problem of lack of medical coverage. This is a simplification in the regions in terms of charging fees for the supervision of hospitals, and we can also support that change.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111438	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111445	Thank you. For a number of years there have been problems with medical coverage in certain areas of Denmark. Therefore, the government and all the parties of the Folketing concluded an agreement in February of this year to remedy the problem. That means, among other things, that... less bureaucracy, if a doctor wants to sell his clinic, and if this law is passed, a doctor will in future be able to sell to another doctor without going through the region. In addition, a general practitioner can own several outer numbers. This makes it easier for doctors who do not want administrative trouble and do not want to take a financial risk by starting up themselves to be employed instead of being self-employed. Apparently there is a need for this, and it can therefore solve some of the problems of medical shortages in certain areas. At the same time it became possible for regional clinics to run clinics for 6 years rather than today 4 years. This makes it easier to plan and therefore helps to remedy the medical deficiency. However, this part of the agreement requires constant attention. I believe that it is extremely important to keep an eye on the fact that we do not get in through the back door a nationalisation or, rather, regionalisation of general practice. Although the regions must comply with the rules of the procurement law on equal treatment, it seems that private procurement clinics do not have exactly the same conditions anyway, and that is something that I will look into in more detail. There may also be other factors relating to the so-called medical shortage, because basically the problem is probably closer to the distribution of doctors than a real shortage of doctors. That is also something we need to look at, and we need to look at it with respect for doctors as self-employed workers. The second part of this bill also means less bureaucracy. Instead of charging fees for each hospital, fees will in future be charged to the region. This means that registration and administration regarding fees are assembled in one place instead of many different places. Less bureaucracy and registration are always very welcome at the Liberal Alliance, and we support the overall legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111704	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111711	Thank you. I will start by saying that the alternative also supports the bill. That is part of the agreement that has already been reached. As has been mentioned, this bill will allow the regions to run general medical clinics for a six-year period in the event of medical coverage problems, and it will be possible to purchase additional external numbers as a general practitioner. So some opportunities are opened up for doctors to get further out into the Danish country. I shall not repeat what many other rapporteurs have said before about the content of the legislative proposal. But I was sitting down there thinking that it's really nice that with this bill we are expanding the opportunity to get some doctors out into those areas of Denmark where there's trouble getting medical coverage. But if we want to avoid getting into a situation in the future where we may need to take even more steps towards it or start finding new ways of solving this challenge, then I think we should also think in much broader terms. This is not just a medical problem; it is a problem of depopulation in our country at all. When I'm driving through my childhood cities, I'm thinking, and I think that's how many people feel when they come and visit their childhood cities... Oh, my God, how dead is this place compared to when I grew up, and there was life in the streets. And I think this is a general problem in Denmark, so it is not just about us having to take action to regulate such things as doctors. We simply need to have life back in our cities, and it is, of course, a question of not closing down all the primary schools that we have closed and of returning jobs. We need to create local entrepreneurship to make people want to live in these cities. Everything we can do to encourage life, culture, education, occupation, employment and leisure opportunities to return to our village communities, we must do that, because I think that is the only right way to go if we are not to stand here in the Folketing and regulate how we get, among other things. Doctors out into the outlying areas. So it's just a feed that in the future we should also remember to see it in a larger perspective. But the alternative supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111914	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027111921	This bill is based on a political agreement from February, where all of the Danish Parliament's parties agreed to follow a large number of the medical coverage committee's concrete initiatives in order to get better medical coverage throughout Denmark. That part of the bill is fully in favour of the Radical Left and, of course, we support it. However, the draft law also contains a number of provisions relating to the charging of fees. The original law on this fee collection was radically opposed to it, but it was adopted by a large majority in the Folketing, and now one needs to amend part of this law. We respect the fact that a majority has passed the law and we therefore now support these, as we read, more technical amendments to the law, and we note that there is also no critical consultation response to these changes to the fee collection. That is why the Radical Left supports the entire bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027112024	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027112031	Thank you for the floor. Is there a doctor here? You almost want to say, or at least a doctor nearby, for it can be a matter of life or death. It is therefore also serious that we have to note, unfortunately, that it is sometimes difficult to have medical positions, not least in private medical practice, and not least in certain parts of the country. I therefore believe that it is also an expression of due diligence, albeit at the last minute, that we had an agreement on the training of more doctors and on solutions in relation to the lack of particularly practitioners. However, it is also important that we agree that this is the long and tough move that is needed if we are to achieve the objective of providing all citizens with the important medical coverage, even in the future. The lack of a doctor creates insecurity, and it also contributes to the depopulation of some areas, which is why the SF also wholeheartedly supports the proposal before us, because it brings us perhaps a small step forward in relation to the medical coverage in the outskirts, when the possibilities of extending regional clinics are increased by two years and there is a simplified access to obtaining the outer numbers of general practitioners. Nor should I conceal the fact that, of course, we had hoped that in the contract circle we would have been even more ambitious when we made the medical coverage agreement in January, so that the regions had been given more freedom to set up regional clinics in those areas where it is difficult or impossible to provide general practitioners, both because the outermost regions have a legitimate right to have even more lasting solutions to their medical shortages, but also because it could strengthen the development of health services in precisely the areas affected or affected by the centralisation of health services. If municipalities and regions in the outermost regions are to have the opportunity to put even more meat and blood on the minds of sustainable health houses and health centres, which are often part of the alternative to both the former general practitioner and the former local hospital, then regions and municipalities should have more free hands to hire general medical practitioners and take over clinics in cases where there is no practitioner who will take over an abandoned clinic. We are pleased that we have reached that point today, and I should perhaps also like to stress that the fact that we are also training more doctors helps to solve the problem in the long run. But the long tough move is necessary and the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027112309	Thank you. You are very welcome to take photos from the gallery, just not by flash. The pictures are actually going to be just as good, even if you don't use a flash. Yeah, well, then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027112326	Thank you for your comments. Thank you, too, for the good negotiations we had at the beginning of the year, which were, as such, part of what led up to the legislative proposal we are discussing today, which is about ensuring better medical coverage throughout the country and thus a country in better balance. Because we all know that not having a medical practitioner in an area helps create insecurity. This helps to create insecurity for those citizens who do not have a natural entrance to our healthcare system. A doctor close to him can take care of those small diseases and illnesses, which certainly do not require a specialist hospital; and a general practitioner can also help to deal with some of those broader health and social conditions, which we know as well as our practitioners, and which therefore makes it important that there is continuity in relation to who they are meeting. For the family doctor knows who your children are and does not start by asking if you have children at all when you show up with a vaccination certificate because they have been there for so little time. These are, of course, some of the descriptions that are also given by some of the areas, namely both the total lack of practitioners, but also the fact that you do not see that you can have a doctor in your vicinity because general practice is closed to approach. The draft law that we are discussing today and the medical coverage agreement that all parties here in the Danish Parliament entered into in February have to deal with the situation we have seen developing over a number of years, when doctors have very much lumped themselves together around the big cities. After all, the report by the medical coverage committee pointed out to a large extent that we have both very many well-educated specialists and very many general practitioners, but that the concentration has increased around the larger cities and less in some of the areas in the country where we can see that there is a shortage of doctors. We can also see that we have some special housing social areas where we are also challenged to recruit doctors. That is why the draft law we are discussing today is extremely important as one element in ensuring better medical coverage in Denmark. But it doesn't do that alone. And that is also why it is important to say that in relation to the committee that has worked under the former Left Government and made a number of recommendations on how to ensure better medical coverage in Denmark, it is just one element of the elements that we are now implementing. It is easy and unbureaucratic to hand over the external numbers from one doctor to another to ensure that you can own up to six practices and thus perhaps get a satellite practice that allows you to have a greater proximity, even in some of those areas where there may not be an equal patient base. It means something. Having a regional clinic is absolutely not preferable. This is not the first choice for us as a government, but it is a necessary solution in some of the places where, both in terms of recruiting practitioners, but also in terms of getting private actors to run medical clinics have not succeeded in doing so. There is an opportunity for regional clinics. There we must also ensure that patients who are then associated with a regional clinic also experience that connection and continuity and the affiliation that exists when you meet the same doctor or a couple of individual doctors in a medical centre over and over again and therefore also experience that they know you when you enter the door, so that you do not have to explain your disease story over and over again. As I said, this bill is just one element in ensuring better medical coverage in Denmark. The government took the initiative earlier this year to raise the number of medical students admitted to the study in Aalborg. It's clear that those doctors won't be ready tomorrow. But there is no doubt that 50 extra places in the medical school in Aalborg are also part of the long-term solution to ensure better medical coverage in North Jutland, where we know we have a very special challenge in terms of medical coverage. The fact that we are now taking the initiative that all medical students as part of their education should go around general practice is also an element that should make it easier to recruit doctors for general medicine, because they would like to see the exciting work that lies in general practice, and thus also help to solve the problems we see with receding medical coverage in some parts of the country. I could also highlight and mention this, and I will also do so, the agreement which the regions have jointly concluded to ensure that young doctors also come to some of the smaller hospitals. I believe that it is really important that the five regions have jointly committed each other to ensuring that it is not only the posts in the large university hospitals that are attractive, but also that there is much greater solidarity in ensuring medical coverage throughout the country and ensuring that educational positions are spread out in such a way and that there is also more work on dividing positions. This has not been resolved in one day, and that is why it is also something that I, as a minister and as a government, am following very closely, because it is an important priority to ensure better medical coverage throughout the country. This is a prerequisite for people to feel safe in their daily lives. The prerequisite for wanting to settle in an area and for an area to grow is to ensure that we have good medical coverage. That is why I very much welcome the broad support for today's legislative proposal and also for the joint agreement we have made in this area. I believe that these are important steps and that this is something that we will be following closely, also jointly, to see whether all actors in this area also fulfil their respective responsibilities. The aim is full medical coverage throughout the country so that patients throughout the country can feel safe and assured that they can have a doctor in their vicinity.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027112911	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027112934	The debate is open. Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027112940	Thank you. This bill, as the President says, is about three legislative complexes that need to be adjusted. It is in itself of a very technical and administrative nature, and it is in order to achieve a greater degree of flexibility and less bureaucracy. The first area is medicine chests. Medication coffins are the concept that covers the medicine you store on board a ship. I think it actually says the same thing if it is on board a plane and it is about always having some medicine, so that in very acute situations you can intervene and hopefully save lives or better a person's acute situation due to pain or other. It is the case that you facilitate access for those who negotiate it, so that you can also buy medical caskets in other countries, for example if you have a Danish registered ship that is sailing in other parts of the world. So it is a more flexible approach to the purchase option itself and to the handling of the purchase. Another element of the bill is that you give others the opportunity to negotiate medical coffins, so that it is not only Danish pharmacies but also wholesale companies that can deliver medicine coffins. A third element is that private pharmacies are allowed to supply medicines to state emergency institutions and to the Danish defence in situations where you cannot buy the medicine because it is simply not marketed on the Danish market. The fourth and final element is that the Danish Medicines Agency is empowered to appoint bodies which can make the necessary supervision and control measures in relation to medical devices on the Danish market. So it is legislative proposals and very technical changes which the Social Democratic Party naturally supports, because it provides greater flexibility and less bureaucracy, and it also provides savings for many of those who are going to operate these measures, and it ensures that the emergency tools and medicines are available where they are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027113209	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Liselott Blixt, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027113217	It's really nice to come second, because then you don't have to explain what the whole bill is about. I'd like to say that this was the first time I even encountered the word medicine coffins I've probably never worked on a ship or plane where you had medical coffins so I thought that then I'd better understand what medical coffins are at all. So I surfed the Internet a little bit and found out that when you're a sailor, you're often a long way from land, and you can get sick on a ship like that. It can be a fishing boat that is close to shore, or it can be a luxury liner; it can be small and large ships on small and large seas. But no matter what, you have to be able to react if something happens to yourself, or if you have to be able to help someone in an emergency out on the water, and there have to be different medicines. And then I realized, and I thought, "Of course, you need some medicine." It could be morphine, it could be something else that's important to have in these medical coffins. I also learned that out on the water it is most often the captain or chief officer who is actually responsible as a disease practitioner. In the Danish Maritime Authority there are some technical precepts about working conditions, etc., and it is also written that there must be a ship medicine chest, and there are in fact different types of medicine chests, namely A, B, C and CR. So I have been very well versed in medical coffins just because we now have the bill that makes sure that it becomes the Health Authority that takes control of it, that is, where it can be bought, what should be in etc. The only thing I want to say about the proposal itself is that there are others who have included it in their hearing reply, and the Minister has also promised to look at it as regards access to compensation for damage caused by medicinal products. Strangely enough, this is something we have also discussed or are discussing at the moment with patients' compensation, i.e. who has the liability, and there is a gap in the exact coverage of drug damage, because some of this medicine is not prescribed to the individual to whom the captain or chief mate should give the medicine. So that is where I hope we will find a solution so that it will, as it were, be included in the legislative proposal when it is voted through. But we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027113455	Thank you to the Danish People's Party. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027113502	The bill we are discussing today acts, among other things. on the supply of medicines to our rescue teams and on a new type of business permit to the Danish companies that negotiate medical caskets with medicines stored in life-rafts and in boats, that is to say vessels that will rescue our seafarers if they are in distress at sea. Danish maritime history goes back a long way, and we have strong traditions in Denmark to take good care of our sailors. Just think of Frederik II, who in 1560 decided to set up the first Danish guy at Skagen, Anholt and Kullen; or at Christian IV, who set up the navigation school in 1619, so that Danish sailor should be prepared for a better life at sea; or at our own Ludvig Holberg, who in 1722 wrote himself into the story with the quote • A chart to understand, another ship is to lead and thus made it maritime for everyone. To this day, Blue Denmark has a position of business. Modern Den Blå Danmark includes shipping companies, shipping companies, ship brokers, ports, yards and a number of subcontractors who in various ways ensure Denmark's future as a maritime nation. Overall, Danish maritime companies account for about a quarter of Danish exports. It is inconceivable that Denmark is among the world's leading maritime nations, and it is simply in our DNA. But we are in fierce competition with other nations. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we constantly be keen on where and how we can reduce the economic burden. We in the Left have a clear ambition to maintain the Danish position of strength. To achieve that ambition, the draft law contributes to this, because now we are relieving the administrative burdens. Let me give you an example: the price of a Danish medicine chest is approx. 88,000 DKK, but the price of a ship chest purchased under Singapore flag is approx. 66,000 kroner. But it is not the price of the coffin itself that is the biggest challenge, it is the transport costs and the authorisation to bring the medicine into another country that is costly. The draft law we are discussing today concerns three different laws: the pharmaceutical law, the pharmacy law and the medical device law. And, as I mentioned at the outset, the amendments to the three legislative complexes must include, among other things: ensure that drivers and ship owners of Danish ships built or registered to sail under the Danish flag abroad can purchase either whole foreign medical chests or one, more or all of the medicines required in the statutory medicine chest in the country where the ship is currently operating; that Danish companies specialising in the production, servicing and replacement of lifeboats and liferafts can negotiate medical chests; that in future the Danish Medicines Agency is responsible for the designation and supervision of the notified bodies; that private pharmacies can manufacture medicines for use in emergency situations or the Defence. The fact is that not all medicines for use in emergency situations are marketed in Denmark, and today only hospital pharmacists can manufacture magistral medicines for preparedness and defence. This puts Denmark in a vulnerable situation and should we exercise due care if the accident is out, it is crucial that private pharmacies can contribute to the manufacture of medicinal products when these cannot be replaced by a medicinal product for which a marketing authorisation has been granted. It is an advantage both from the point of view of security of supply and from the point of view of competition that we are now liberalising, so that pharmacists have the opportunity to produce more medicines Magistrates, and that at the same time we also allow dealers of medicines coffins to negotiate medicine coffins purchased from foreign suppliers in the future. The Left will vote in favour of the bill, which, with many small elements, hopefully will make a difference to maritime Denmark and help to ensure that we remain competitive. One is a chart to understand, another is a ship to lead. At least now there are good opportunities to do so with good health along the way. I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027113930	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027113944	Thank you. The bill contains a number of very different elements. Let me start with medical coffins, where I also belong to those who have never heard of it before, but then we learned what is, after all, a box of medicine that can be used for illness and accidents at sea. Here the government proposes to lift the requirement that the first purchase of medical chests for ships built abroad for Danish flags, or ships that are flagged into Danish flags, should be Danish. In addition, it is proposed to liberalise the pharmacy reservation so that the purchase of Danish medicine chests does not need to be made at a Danish pharmacy, but can be done from foreign suppliers. We can see the reason for the Minister's interest in updating the rules because it is difficult today to comply with the requirement to buy Danish medicines because of import restrictions, but we do not understand why the Minister believes that it is necessary to liberalise pharmaceutical legislation again, because this is beyond the necessary updating of the legislation. We have that pharmacy reservation, which says that the supply of medicines in Denmark is handled by the pharmacies in Denmark. We have this reservation, among other things. to ensure a high level of professionalism and control of the medicines that the Danes must consume. We do not believe that there are serious arguments here for further weakening the prescription of pharmacies. Another part of the bill is to create the legal basis for private actors to produce medicines for emergency situations, state rescue, other emergency authorities and military defence. As part of the problem, it appears that it is more and more difficult to obtain medicines for emergency situations, as the medicines are not marketed in Denmark. In Enhedslisten is concerned that we in Denmark do not have a well-functioning production of medicines for our preparedness and that we are dependent on the purchase of such medicines from private or foreign suppliers. We therefore believe that the Minister should take into account the response of the Capital Region. As the Capital Region describes, the legislation is based on §55 (1). 2 to allow the Minister to allow a hospital pharmacy to supply medicinal products to state institutions. If the Minister wishes to grant the authorization, the Department of the Capital of Denmark's pharmacy can provide the defence and rescue services with the medicinal products in demand, thereby ensuring both the supply of essential medicines and even a saving for the public. What is missing is the Minister's willingness to use the legislation. The Minister's refusal to authorise the public production of medicinal products is justified by the fact that public production may have a restrictive effect on the earnings of private pharmacies and thus have an impact on the distribution of medicinal products as a whole. We think that is a perfectly hypothetical claim made here. The Minister continues to state his reasons for rejecting the idea that there should be supply considerations in favour of granting such authorisation, but that is exactly what we are discussing. We are discussing a change of law in the light of security of supply problems. The reason why the Minister wants to change section 12 is that it is harder and harder to obtain medicines for the emergency services, but that is precisely a good reason for using the law to allow the regions to produce for the emergency services on the basis of security of supply considerations, so that we do not rely on a private market. If that happens, then the proposal for amendment of the law is superfluous and unnecessary. Finally, I would like to say that we support the part of the proposal relating to the transfer of competence from the Ministry of Health to the Danish Medicines Agency to designate notifying bodies and to carry out certification and control measures with medical devices. We believe that the relocation can strengthen professional insight into the area, but since we disagree with the other two elements that we consider to be wrong solutions to an important problem, we cannot support the legislative proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114400	Thank you to the rapporteur. In fact, we have reached Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance, which is now on its way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114419	Thank you. It is really nice that former rapporteurs have already explained what a medicine chest is and what it is used for, because I have to admit that I had no idea either. But that means that then I can go straight to the purpose of this bill, and that is, of course, to strengthen the supply of safe medicines for rescue or emergency situations at sea. This will facilitate the business of Danish companies that negotiate medical caskets with medicines for use in lifeboats and rafts in emergency situations at sea, without compromising quality. At the same time, it will strengthen their competitiveness in the global maritime market. In addition, Danish ships must in future be able to buy medicines for the ship's mandatory medicine chest in the country where they are located. Again, a welcome relief of administrative burdens and lower costs, and it is clear that the Liberal Alliance supports such a proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114524	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then I should like to point out that we must not call on the higher powers from here on the platform. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114537	Thank you. I'll be very, very brief. I hadn't heard of medical coffins before either. I learned a little more from reading it, but I was much wiser to hear the speech of the Danish People's Party rapporteur, because at least thorough research had been done on it. So thank you for that, too, from the rest of us. This bill, as has been mentioned, facilitates a number of challenges in relation to, among others. the Danish companies that are negotiating medical coffins and these ships that need medical coffins, so of course we support that in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114615	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114622	Thank you. The aim of the draft law is to strengthen the supply of safe medicines for life-saving care and in case of acute illness, accidents or emergencies at sea and to delegate competences concerning medical devices to the Danish Medicines Agency. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114645	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114652	Thank you. I'm not the other one, but the other last one, so I'm just gonna make it short. The SF supports the main intentions of the proposal to strengthen the supply of safe medicines for rescue, also because the proposal has not given rise to any particular debate. However, the SF would still like to ask in committee about the pricing of medicinal products, as pointed out by the Danish Pharmacy Association, and the possibility of access to compensation as a result of drug damage from the medical chests. However, the SF supports the proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114736	Thank you. Now Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen was the last in line, for the Left has welcomed from the Conservative People's Party. That is why we have now reached the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027114750	Thank you for your comments and for the broad indication of support for the bill with one exception. I would, of course, like to make myself available to clarify some of the questions raised by the hearings, in relation to drug damage, but also in relation to some of the other questions, so that we can have them settled during the committee procedure. Thank you, too, for the very kind of maritime metaphorical speeches that have been made here today. This does not, of course, mean that much of the content needs to be clarified in this area. If I want to add a few words to that, it is because I really think this bill is such a very good example of a legislative proposal that nobody notices in any way, but which nevertheless has some value to those involved, for example. for Blue Denmark and for the many ships in which it is found today that it is bureaucratic and there is an expensive link, and where you experience that the law is so old-fashioned and reflects a different time than what you are sailing around the oceans and experiencing today. That is why it is such a bill which does not take the major headlines in the newspapers, but which has a concrete meaning, among other things. for our Danish shipping companies, for our Danish fleet and also for our preparedness in those situations where you also need to produce products that are not marketed in Denmark. And it matters if you are out on the Atlantic Ocean and there are accidents or diseases or emergencies, that you have both a good and well-equipped ship chest, and that you also see that there are no problems in getting the right things in the ship coffin if you call at a port somewhere else in the world. After all, the proposed amendments to the pharmaceutical law must both regulate and ensure the quality of the handling of medicinal products by Danish companies that negotiate medical caskets with medicinal products for use in rescue vessels and in emergency situations at sea. That is why I do not share the Enhedslisten's concern that this should be a deterioration in quality. I think that this has been largely taken into account. I fully acknowledge that the Pharmacy Association has pointed out in their response that they also want to be more competitive in this area, so that they do not see that it is a market that disappears from them. And as many have said, a large proportion of the costs today are not linked to the content, which consists of both medical equipment, free products and medicinal products, but is very much linked to some of the bureaucracy that may be involved in getting something into another country, that is to say that which is linked to transport and other things. I would like to respond to that, and I would also like to see, at second reading, whether the wishes of the Association of Pharmacies, in terms of being more competitive in this area, can be met in any way. If it then requires economics in relation to their own system, well then I also have an expectation that if the wish comes from the Pharmacy Association, they themselves are aware of that part. I have also read the consultation answers, just as Enhedslisten has, and so I am fundamentally positive about the changes that you want. In contrast to Enhedslisten, however, I do not feel that we should continue to maintain a bureaucratic system for the Danish fleet and for our many ships sailing around the world because we want to maintain a structure in the pharmaceutical market, where everything should be reserved for production in Denmark. We live in a global world, and I think it is also necessary to consider that the Danish fleet is sometimes more often located in ports other than Denmark, and that the Danish rescue team and the companies that also produce life-rafts for other countries' ships need to live in a flexible world where we do not, like us, believe that only Danish requirements apply. That is why, as I said, I would also like to look at the inquiries that have come from the Pharmacy Association towards second reading. I am quite sure that this is something that will benefit Blue Denmark, and I think that is important, even if it is not a bill that draws big headlines. Then there is the whole question of preparedness. I also think it is extremely important that we have that part in it, because it will provide more flexibility in terms of preparedness. And when the consultation answers point to the products on the market, it is something other than what is being regulated now with this bill, which is the non-market products. And that's why there's a difference between what Mr. Finn Sørensen says in his speech as a reason why Enhedslisten cannot support it, and so what lies here. Because there is a big difference between whether we are talking about a product that is marketed in Denmark and that is therefore available and can be bought, also by the Danish defence and by the preparedness, and a product that is not marketed in Denmark, but needs to be used in some emergency situations where you obviously need it quickly and where you need it in another country and may not be able to get the delivery. There must then be the possibilities in the Health Act that you can have it produced magistrelt in a hospital pharmacy. What we are talking about here are the non-market preparations. This means that these are preparations which cannot be bought simply from free production, for example. Danish pharmacies. In my view, it is important that it should not only be reserved for hospital pharmacists, but that we should also be able to provide emergency services to buy it from private pharmacies in Denmark. Because that can be anything, for example. Iodine tablets in an emergency storage facility that must be there if and if there is a nuclear spill accident or other, and in this way it is not about getting a high price from a company abroad, in a country where there is a marketing authorisation because you cannot get it in Denmark. I therefore believe that this bill debureaucraticises, improves and makes it cheaper for our preparedness to be able to deal with the emergency tasks associated with both defence and preparedness staff, but also with the Danes in general, for example. talk about iodine tablets in relation to nuclear emissions and other things. Thank you for the floor and thank you for your comments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115349	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115355	Thank you. It is probably because I am a temporary rapporteur on this and perhaps not understand all the details of the Minister's reply from the Chair, but would the Minister not like to try to explain why the possibility that lies in the legislation, which I referred to in my rapporteur's speech, cannot be used to allow a hospital pharmacy to supply the requested medicines to state institutions? I would really like an explanation for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115434	The points referred to in the consultation answer relate to marketed medicinal products, which can be bought on the Danish market and which today are compared to what was previously said by Enhedslisten about respecting the rules we have on pharmacies. The pharmacies. There is a narrow interpretation of the law today so that it can be used in acute situations. It may be if you need something here and now. What we are now regulating with the bill is the non-market preparations. It can, for example, be done. be related to iodine tablets, as I mentioned. But it could be a large number of products where there is not necessarily a marketed preparation inside the Danish market. There, we believe, there should be the possibility that the preparedness can get it produced also at a private pharmacy in Denmark, otherwise the alternative is that you have to go out and buy it abroad. So the dividing line actually goes by the small word "not," i.e. whether it is marketed or not marketed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115522	Thank you. So it is the Minister's interpretation that if it is non-marketed products, it is not possible to make use of the possibility provided by the legislation, Paragraph 55 (1). 2, to allow a hospital pharmacy to deliver them. Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Otherwise, as I do not have any more shots in the gay right here, I will have to ask a question in committee. But I would like to hear the Minister's answer to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115552	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115554	Well, of course, you are very welcome to put it in writing, and so there may be good reason for doing so for the sake of general information. What this bill regulates is the non-market products. What the hearing is about is that they are marketed. As far as marketing is concerned, there is a legal basis today, and there is the opinion of the Danish Medicines Agency that it is a narrow interpretation which is the basis of the health law as it is today. And, of course, I'll be happy to elaborate on that. This bill sets new rules for non-market preparations, where in future we will allow both the defense and the preparedness to have it produced magically in a private pharmacy. They do not have such opportunities today for non-market products.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115634	Then we can thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115702	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mr Seligman to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party MortensenMøller-Democratic GroupFlemming in order to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027115713	This is a bill that the Social Democratic Party is happy to support. It is a very fine modernisation, it is a time-lag, and it is also an attitude towards the laws we have in this area. This allows couples and also single women who simply do not have useful eggs or useful semen to become pregnant by double donation. Here it is important for me to say: is this a big problem? Yeah, this is a huge problem. Up to one in ten pregnancies, up to one in ten babies born in Denmark, are born by means of fertility treatment because eggs and semen in Denmark are of poor quality. That is why, in addition to the bill here, we must, of course, also ensure that we have politically focused a sharp, sharp focus on the reasons why the fertility of eggs and semen in Denmark has so little quality. A short time ago there was also a hearing in the Folketing on chemical and hormonal effects in relation to fertility. However, this is a very good legislative proposal, which now opens up the possibility of receiving both donor eggs and donor sperm. We took political discussions, the Ethics Council was consulted to know what is for and against, and whether there are arguments and consequences that we have not just seen. The majority of the Ethnic Council also recommended the lifting of the ban on double donation. The Ethical Council recommended that we should say that there should still be a medical indication for the treatment. The Ethical Council also recommended requiring either a known egg donor or a known sperm donor to give the child a certain knowledge of his genetic origin. This is a discussion that we have also had politically and in which we have agreed that the recommendations that were here should also be the framework for the amendment of the law here. We Social Democrats agree with this and we are pleased that there is such broad support for these changes. There is another change in the bill here, and it goes on throughout the tranquilised area, which has been through a very marked and very pleasing change in law complexes and guides in Denmark. It is a small minority group whose rights we have so much been put on the agenda and in which we have also been frontrunners on some points in relation to what is being done in the world as a whole. It's very pleasing. It is all on the basis of the respect and dignity of the individual and the identity that one now has with oneself. Therefore, it is also necessary in this context to make some adjustments in relation to language, terminology, in the Health Act. No diagnosis should be made in relation to transsexuality, but it can be replaced by the requirement that the person should just be transgender. Well, there's a really big charge in how things are, and this is a very nice adjustment. Another change is in relation to sex change in relation to castration, and that it should no longer be a requirement for the Danish Health Authority to authorise castration as part of gender change, but that it can be left to what we are also discussing in our health care, in relation to treating and attending doctors, and that in the close dialogue and discussion with the individual trannised one can make the decision. So these are important, important democratic changes we are making. It is often in relation to the fact that in taking into account and setting up frameworks for small minorities, one has to understand the depth of a democracy. That is why the major legislative changes are being made here. Are there any social democratic reservations? Yes, well, we have been very aware of what LGBT Denmark has made of comments, and just before we started the legislative process here, there was an answer to some questions put by LGBT Denmark to the Minister for Health, and of course we will look forward to the second and third readings. But as a starting point, we support the bill here. It's a really nice bill with changes to two pieces of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027120201	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Then we have reached Mrs Liselott Blix from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027120209	In the Danish People's Party we want all children to know who their parents are. To many, standing as a human being without deep roots can become a problem for the life you want to live. But society has changed. More and more people are having trouble having the children they want. That is also why we are seeing the fertility treatment we are seeing today, precisely to help those who want to be parents. Today it is the case that double donation is not allowed because we had the attitude in society that it is important for the child to have a connection with at least one of his parents, but challenges have also been created for others and for the way one has chosen to live. If there is one woman who wants to live with another woman and who wants to have children cannot have children, then, as the legislation is today, you cannot get eggs from your partner. That's what you can do after this bill, and it'll make sure you can get semen from a donor. We have had a bit of difficulty with this because, as I said, we would like to know where your parents come from. We repeatedly see in programs adopted children and others who are looking for their parents because they have a great need, they have a big empty hole, they have a disease they don't know, or they have some traits they don't know from where they have. So having to have two completely anonymous donors would be unthinkable to us. But I would also like to say that in the future and with gengest, and what we can now see, there will come a day when it cannot be concealed where you come from. That is very good, from our point of view, because then it is a little easier for those people who actually have a great challenge with it. As previous rapporteurs also mentioned, this law also changes by trannised, i.e. that terminology is changed, precisely because we decided on 1 January this year, 2017 to delete the tranned from the diagnostic list, i.e. as a mental illness, so that it becomes easier when you are transgender. So we fully agree with that. So this is a proposal to which we would like to ask a few questions. We're not cheerful. Much of it can be a slippery path to something else, but it is a proposal that is nevertheless positive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027120459	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027120505	Today we are debating a bill which, on the one hand, has to end the ban on double donations and, on the other, changes the rules on castration, a bill which will have a major impact on the childless couples who, due to a health challenge, cannot or only with great risk, can bring children into the world. From now on, they will experience a whole new world opening up, hopefully. Many people in Denmark find it difficult to have children. Yes, you can almost call infertility a people's disease, and it is both sad and unhappy if you want children when you can't have them. Many can get the help of skilled doctors in the Danish health care system, while others have to adjust to a childless life, unfortunately. But there are also couples or singles who can actually have children, but where the risk of the child being born with severe disabilities or a serious hereditary illness is so great that it may be difficult to look out of it, just as there are situations where, for example, there are situations where the child is born with severe disabilities or a serious hereditary illness. neither man nor woman has reproductively capable germs. Such situations are deeply unhappy, and so far there has not been much help, but now it is brightening ahead. Because with the bill here, we are lifting the ban on double donation, so that double donation will now be legal if the use of donor eggs and donor sperm is justified in terms of health. We in the Left are fully in line with the Ethical Council, which has dealt with the ethical issues of lifting the ban on double donation. And let it be said straight away: it has not been an easy decision to reach this, because there are a number of ethical issues associated with the removal of the child's best interests, for example. When you allow double donation, you also take away knowledge of your genetic origin from the child, because the child will not be genetically related to either mother or father, and you can rightly ask the question whether we are not all entitled to know our genetic source, in other words know who we are, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said. And I wonder if most of us have watched television broadcasts where unhappy people travel around the world to find a mother or a father they've never met. But for us in the Left, it is and has been crucial that the child has the opportunity to know about his genetic origin, that is to say at least one parent, and that is why I am pleased that the legislation is designed so that children conceived by double donation will in future have the opportunity to know the identity of at least one parent. Of course, this presupposes that the non-anonymous donor has chosen to be contactable and that the parents who have had children by double donation tell the child about their source. There is no guarantee of that, but there is no guarantee of that, for example. adopted children. I have great faith that parents want their children the best. Love and care are not genetically conditioned, and the parents judge that the best thing for the child is that they tell about the genetic source, yes, then I actually think that parents will put the child's well-being above all else. The world around us is changing, new family forms are emerging, and no one is more right than others. I have noted that LGBT Denmark would like lesbian couples to have the same opportunities for double donation when the bill is drafted here, so that it is not only in a medical indication that double donation can be initiated. And I would like to make it clear that we in the Left are open to the same possibility for lesbian couples, as long as they bear the costs that go with them themselves, but of course I am also aware that others have different starting points and views. The second part of the bill is not about pregnancy, but about gender, more specifically, tranquilized. For the matter is that Denmark, which we have a tradition of, has taken the lead in the fight to recognise trannised people as being non-psychically ill, but a minority group in line with other minority groups in our society. Specifically, Denmark has chosen to make up for the WHO's diagnostic code system and established a separate Danish solution, so that the codes for the tranned are no longer included in the chapter on mental disorders and behavioural disorders. It is a milestone and I am both proud and happy that we in the Left chose to go all the way and changed the code from 1 January this year. We have sent out a clear signal that with a phasing out of the diagnosis of transsexuality and the transition to transsexuality we in Denmark recognise that being born in the wrong body has nothing to do with sexuality. Now we're adjusting the health code so that it's also up to date. This means that the requirement for the Danish Health Service to approve castration as part of a change of sex is lifted, and in future the responsibility will be on both the medical officer responsible and the surgeon to ensure that the patient has given informed consent. Castration, whether male or female, is irreversible, and therefore it is essential that the patient gives informed consent, but also to ensure that the patient, for example, is informed. is not mentally ill or for any other reason is not aware of the consequences of irreversible intervention. Tolerance and freedom are values that we cherish in Denmark and that we cherish in the Left. With the bill, we are sending out a clear signal that we are following in time and that we are using the new options after careful consideration, and that is, whether you are a future mother or father, transgender or one of the children who will be born in the future without their parents being part of their genetic origin. The Left can support the bill as tabled, and I would like to welcome the Conservatives and say that the Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027121048	Thank you to the Left, and then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027121100	Thank you. I agree with the Socialist rapporteur that these are actually some democratic achievements which are part of a progressive development that some of us have been fighting for for for a very long time. And there you can sometimes rejoice that in the midst of all our struggles for money to be spent on tax relief or welfare, and all our struggles for different views on value policy seem to us to have a broad consensus in the Folketing on such things as are being proposed here today. To start with the first part of the legislative proposal concerning the lifting of the ban on double donation, we think it is positive that more opportunities are opened up for people to be helped to become parents if, for one reason or another, they are unable to do so themselves. So far, it has not been possible to get both sperm and egg donations, and this has ruled out couples or agreers who needed both to have a child. This changes the law when the ban on double donation is lifted. In considering whether it should be possible to be an anonymous donor, there may be conflicting considerations to be weighed. In this case, it is in the child's interest to know his biological origin, which faces the donor's interest in being able to remain anonymous, including the question of the best possible conditions for obtaining donors. As a starting point, we believe that the most important thing is that the child is raised by parents who care about it and not whether the parents are related to the child. It must be up to the families themselves to determine when and how information about donations should be passed on to the child. We therefore support the fact that there is no provision for the creation of compulsory information on donations. But, of course, we also acknowledge, as has other rapporteur, that for a child who finds out that it has come about by donation, it can be of great importance to be able to identify his biological source. It is also made as an important point by the Children's Council in their hearing response. We therefore support either semen or eggs being donated in non-anonymous form. It will also be a continuation of the practice that exists today. We are aware that people who choose double donation are exposed to a risk in the form of pregnancy complications. However, we believe that if this happens on the basis of a properly informed consent, there is no reason to prohibit children from coming into the world in this way. We therefore agree with the consultation answer from LGBT Denmark that it is a pity that the bill maintains the requirement for a health professional indication for donation. The Enhedslisten does not believe that it should be illegal for a couple of the same sex who want to have a family to donate eggs to the other, if this is done on a properly informed consent. It will also increase safety, as we know that there are already couples who defy these rules today. We will table an amendment to this part of the bill and hope that other parties here in the Folketing will support it. The Enhedslisten wholeheartedly supports the second part of the bill, which is about amending Section 115 (1) of the Health Act. We believe that this is a clear step forward and that the fact that people should no longer be allowed to be castrated as part of gender change is a recognition that tranned people are able to make choices on their own behalf. In general, we believe that the ongoing process of detigmatising the transgenders is necessary and we support actions to make our health services meet people with respect and dignity regardless of gender identity. The withdrawal of authority prior to the surgical removal of genital glands is a step on the way to removing the pre-enhancing of transpersonals from the past, and that is why we support the bill, and that is in its entirety. However, we are going to table an amendment to extend the possibility of using double donations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027121450	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027121458	Thank you. With this bill, even more families will be able to bring wishful children to the world. I am very pleased about that. In future, lone women and lesbian couples will also have the opportunity to have a family with children, and more children will thus be able to become part of this world. The bill will allow a child to become even if it requires both donor eggs and donor sperm. However, there are some limitations to this, as one donor must be non-anonymous. But even with that limitation, the bill helps make this day a day of joy, and I know that many have been waiting for it for years. And then I have to see if I can convince my colleagues along the way that double anonymity must also be allowed and that this can be done on the basis of the best interests of the child. Another part of this bill is also a very important and major step on the road to equality and showing respect for a group of people, namely transpersonals. The fact that authorities and health professionals have managed to understand that transsexuality has nothing to do with sexual preferences or direction is great. And I must commend the National Health Service for moving in the perception of the binary gender disorder. This means that we are changing the misleading term transsexuality to transsexuality, and at the same time the fantastic thing is that Denmark is taking the lead and, as the first country, is changing the WHO's diagnostic code, so transgenderness is no longer in the same chapter as mental illness. In all this work, it has been important to me that it is not only changes on a piece of paper, but also in practice, and that the guidance given by the Ministry also meets modern standards. And again, I must praise, because I think we have come a long way. There are certainly some who will think that we are not far enough but then we will have to look at it. For the time being, I would like to welcome the great progress that has been made with the efforts of all parties. In particular, however, I would like to thank Mrs Magdalene Maier from the Alternative for her excellent cooperation and thank the Minister for her positive attitude to this area. The bill here has to be seen in the context of all the previous work, and this part of the bill will mean that in future it will be the doctor responsible for treatment who decides on castration in connection with sex change, as is the case with all other health decisions. In the past it was not the doctor who made that decision, and of course it has to be a health care professional who does it. So LA supports this proposal with a big smile, and according to the consultation answers there may be some wordings that need to be clarified, and we shall have to look at that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027121818	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027121826	Thank you. Some time ago, perhaps a year ago, I was called by a woman who told her story, and the story was that she lived in a homosexual relationship with another woman and was and is married to this other woman, and they had been trying to have a child for a long time. I was a health rapporteur, and I think I may not be the only one called. The woman who would then bear the child was the youngest of the women, and it was she who wanted to go through a pregnancy, but she could not have children herself because her eggs were simply too bad. So they had tried to be artificially fertilized many times, but each time they had failed, and they were through severe hormone treatments. They were then not allowed to use the other woman's eggs to make her pregnant with an unknown father or donor, and this was, among other things, the case. the story that grabbed me very much about the heart, because I thought why just that couldn't be done. I think it was some of the things that actually led to these negotiations starting to be held in the Ministry of Health at the time. So it is very positive that we are standing here today in a situation where this can be done for, among other things. a lesbian couple to have a child where neither the egg nor the semen of the man is actually genetically related to the woman who carries the child. Then you can ask the question in relation to it with knowledge, that is, the donor's knowledge, i.e. whether you should know the donor, or whether it is okay that there is full anonymity. In this bill, it is proposed that at least one half of the genetic origin should be known. We are, in fact, very much in agreement with this, because I think it is important from an ethical point of view, and one might ask oneself that the child who comes out of such a relationship and of such a construction, I was saying, may at some point be allowed to return to a source that one knows is known. It then also asks the next question in relation to what Mr. Finn Sørensen from the Enhedslisten mentioned whether it should only be medical indications that allow you to receive double donations. Should it be, as in the case of the woman in question, because there are medical reasons why you cannot carry a child or that your eggs are too bad? And there I think we will be in favour of an amendment from the Enhedslisten. The reason why it has been chosen is because it is based on the Ethical Council, which has stated that there is a majority which believes that there should be medical indications. But there is a large minority in the Ethnic Council who think otherwise, and we must remember that. I think the Ethnic Council has been very divided on this issue, so you have to do something about yourself where you lie down, but as a starting point, I think we are going there in the alternative. This is something we should be discussing, but I could imagine that we are laying down where we will be positive about double donation, even if there are no Medinian indications for it. For us it is important that there is a knowledge of the genetic origin of one of the parents. Then, of course, there is also the other half of this bill, which is about the fact that access to castration has been simplified and that the Danish Health Authority no longer has to grant permission for castration. We fully support this, because, in relation to our entire fight for LGBT rights and the rights of tranners, this is a very good step in the right direction. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122153	There is one brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122157	Thank you. I noted that the rapporteur had a thought about possibly supporting a future amendment from the Enhedslisten. I just think I would like to mention that the draft law here has, as it were, come about on the basis of an agreement in the area of ethics and the discussions we have had there. I just want to ask whether the alternative recognises the process that we have been through together in ethical circles.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122224	Well, of course I do, and when I mention this, I say that's something we'll consider. It has been our health rapporteur who has been involved in the negotiations, and I will, of course, go back on that. Because if this has been a point of disagreement in the negotiations and we have said in the alternative the opposite of what I am saying now, then I will withdraw it. I am not aware of that, but I think that if it is a new element that comes in now, then of course we will look at it. However, I am, of course, entirely in line with the responsibility and properness of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122251	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen from the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122300	The Radical Left is in favour of lifting the ban on double donation. We have wanted to get rid of this ban for several years, which is why we are, of course, pleased that a majority in the Folketing is now agreed to abolish it. In the Radical Left, we would have liked to go even further and not conditional double donation with the need to provide a medical justification for treatment. We think it should be possible for lesbian couples, for example, to be able to donate eggs to each other, so that it is possible that one woman gets pregnant and gives birth to the child, while the other woman is an egg donor and is therefore born with her genetic material. However, there was no broad consensus on this, and we naturally respect the agreement that we have made. We also think it is fine that the donated semen or donated egg should be donated in non-anonymous form so that it will continue to be possible for the child to have at least partial knowledge of his genetic origin. Radical Left strongly supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122413	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122420	Thank you for the floor. It's always nice when you can help make life easier for more citizens and introduce legislation that is more up-to-date and in line with current family patterns and gender identities in this case compared to the crowded and couples and single women who need help with their reproduction. With this proposal, we have come a step closer to the now absolutely necessary detigmatisation of transgendered citizens when it is finally possible to have a castration carried out without prior permission from the Health Authority. The decision on the future should be made only by the patient and the treating physician. This is a major step forward, which the SF supports warmly. In the SF, we believe, in line with a number of previous rapporteurs, that it is time to put an end to the ban on double donation of eggs, first and foremost because this gives more opportunities for carrying out a pregnancy and thus giving birth to our own child, but also because the proposal before us makes the necessary arrangements so that the possibility of double donation is made on the basis of health grounds. It will still be partly possible for children to learn about their biological origins. In cases where the couples and the donor want full openness, this will also be an opportunity. The SF is also grateful for the cooperation and will warmly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122555	Thank you. In fact, we have reached the Minister for Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027122608	Thank you and thank you for today's debate and for the great support for the bill. It is, after all, a legislative proposal which arises from an agreement we have made in an ethical circle and which has been discussed and discussed over several meetings. I also know that the parties have had it in the groups, because it is something that we have asked the Ethics Council to deal with and make recommendations on. I also know that this is something which has also been called for by a great many groups for compromise to be possible in order for us to reach a common agreement. And the joint agreement on which the draft law is based is based on a high degree of follow-up to the recommendation of the Ethics Council, namely to define the bill in relation to lifting the ban on double donation to those places where there is a medical justification for treatment. I can say, on behalf of the government, that we support and fully support the agreement we have made, and we support it, even though, as some of the rapporteurs have said, some of the rapporteurs who do not belong to the government parties might well have intended to go further. I know this applies both to red parties and to blue parties. However, this is part of a joint agreement based on the recommendation of the Ethnic Council, which just recommended that we deal with those areas where there was a medical justification. That is also the reason why the draft law has been drafted as it is, and I respect the agreement we have reached, and I think it is actually a pity that something that has been agreed and agreed must suddenly be the subject of the compromises that have been made, so that it is signalled that some others will not be more progressive in one area. Because I think it will make it more difficult to work on some of these ethical issues, where we have also had an understanding that there must be consensus among the parties if we are to be able to change that. There is no doubt that this draft law is helping to bring the legislation more up-to-date, that is to say to keep pace with both professional development, but also with cultural and normative developments in society. And it is important that we ensure that those who really need help to have children are also given the opportunity to do so. That is also why I think it is a very important legislative proposal in terms of amending the Assisted Reproduction Act, so that the ban on double donation is removed in situations where there is a health professional justification for the treatment, precisely on the basis of the recommendations of the Ethics Council, so that couples and also single women who need the treatment can get help. At the same time, as part of the agreement, there has been a desire to know its genetic origin, and that is why we also demand that at least one donor should be non-anonymous in order to enable the child to have partial knowledge of his biological origin. The second part of the bill also concerns an area where developments have gone very fast. This is an area in which we have also taken a large number of initiatives together in the Folketing, some of which have made Denmark to be the first mover or first in the world again on a number of points, namely the whole question of moving the trans-area in relation to the diagnostic codes, and it is so clearly marked in the WHO context that if the WHO did not do so together, we would go Danish alone. This is an area in which we have also had a broad consensus here in the Danish Parliament, and I also think it is strong that we now say, in relation to the bill, that there should be no doubt that all persons regardless of gender identity, including tranned people, must meet with both dignity and respect in the Danish healthcare system, and with the changes that are happening here, we will do away with the diagnostics that have otherwise been found in the legislation. I have taken note of that, which I have also answered as part of Question No. 1 to the bill that LGBT Denmark would have liked to have seen the wordings further changed in the comments to the bill. As I have answered in committee, the comments cannot be changed after the submission, but there has been no wish or intention to write it in any other way or in a way that could be interpreted differently from the guidance issued, and so I would also urge the parties of the Danish Parliament to include the answer in the report so that it can be included as an element in the future interpretation of the draft law. Because if that is the way it is read, we also have to deal with it, of course, even if it has not been the intention of the wordings. As far as this whole decision on castration is concerned, which we have also discussed in several contexts, and on which there are also changes in relation to guidance, we are here making a legal decision which ensures that we do not have to have the Health Authority's permission in future for castration as part of a sex change. Instead, it will be the medical officer in charge who, together with the person, will assess whether castration should be carried out. I also think that in this way we will create a more up-to-date legal position for the people of the region, in relation to what their situation is today and also in relation to their desire to deal with castration in the future. On this point too, there has been a desire to ensure that those who are, as it were, in the process before this draft law has come into being will also have the opportunity to make use, after the adoption of the bill, of the far more modern rules that the draft law is now implementing. I also have in answer to Question No 3 by Mr de la Malène, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 1 to the parties indicated that I am actually willing to table an amendment on this, if that is the wish of the parties, so that we ensure that, for those who are in the process of progress and who are somehow caught between old and new legislation, we take the initiative that with one amendment per person. 1 January will come to the new legislation. I therefore hope that the parties will also discuss it and take it with us so that we can, hopefully, jointly respond to that part. I would, of course, like to raise any questions that might arise from the committee and to welcome the good cooperation we have had in ethical circles in doing this modernisation of legislation in an area which is of great importance to the small minority groups, as this is about. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123223	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123241	The debate is open, and Mr. Kaare Dybvad, the Social Democratic Party, is the first on the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123300	Thank you for that, President. In the law that we made in 2015, we then gave the opportunity to point out from the municipality and to make the free-care accommodation contract system more flexible, and we have then evaluated that. And we have then come to the conclusion that we would like to open up free-care accommodation in rented premises. It can be remembered that before the tariff was set on the basis of a national average, and this meant that some municipalities were paid an expense which was much higher than the cost to a citizen of the municipality's own nursing homes, and that was one of the problems that we tried to lift at the time and which both municipalities and suppliers pointed out. According to the government, free-care homes are now available in rented premises, which is, of course, limited by the fact that the corresponding service area is also subject to the Nursing Housing Act, and this means that an owner can have the same security for the lease as if it were covered by the Commercial Rental Act. Given that it is provided that there will be no higher rent or a deterioration in the legal position of residents who are still subject to the law on rentals, as the government states in the bill, we can support the proposal on the part of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123416	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123422	Thank you. Indeed, the bill here is relevant to the law that in 2015 made it possible to operate free-care accommodation in rented premises, and it was adopted by a unanimous Parliament with the exception of Enhedslisten. The law was then designed so that the relationship between the owner of the property and a free-care provider was covered by the rent regulation law, yes, it is a botched word. This has not been shown to be appropriate since a self-care residential provider uses the premises for the professional operation of care activities and should therefore be subject to the Occupational Housing Act. This should lead to greater freedom of agreement between the two parties in favour of the residents. The change, as Mr. Kaare Dybvad also mentioned, should have no impact on the rent level in the included free-care homes, which among other things. Danske Senierer also emphasizes in their hearing answer, and therefore the Dansk Folkeparti can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123518	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123524	As most people are aware, a number of amendments to the Free Care Act were adopted in 2015. Here it was among other things. possible to operate free-care accommodation in rented premises. Under the current rules, the lease relationship between the owner of a property and the free-care provider, when the free-care provider establishes dwellings in rented premises, is subject to the rental law. We are changing this situation with the proposal here, so that in future the lease relationship between the two parties will be covered by the VET Act. The change will increase the freedom of agreement between the owner of a property and the provider of a home-care facility, since the two parties will be more able to agree on the conditions which they consider most appropriate in the specific lease relationship. And thus, the possibility of operating free-care accommodation in rented premises is no longer restricted by inappropriate regulation. By precisely removing this inappropriate regulation, we will be able to support the possibility of operating free-care accommodation in rented premises, and this will strengthen the interest of potential landlords in offering suitable premises for free-care accommodation providers. It is therefore the expectation of the Left that the proposal here will help to increase the supply of premises that the free-care provider can rent. In this way, we can strengthen the free-care housing market and thus the proposal here will also benefit potential tenants. In this context, however, it is important for me to stress that the proposal does not alter the conditions of the residents in subletting conditions. This is also evident from the text of the law itself. It is the Left's expectation that this proposal will benefit the parties involved in order to increase the freedom of agreement and the freedom to agree on the conditions which the parties consider most appropriate in the specific circumstances, without having a negative impact on the residents, and that makes very good sense in our optics. Against this background, I can inform you that the Left supports this proposal. I should also like to inform you, on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, that they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123746	Thank you. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen has not arrived yet, so we move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance. I have been informed that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen is on his way. Here you go, Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123810	Thank you. The aim of the bill before us is to increase the contractual freedom in the lease relationship between a free-care provider and the owner of the property. The proposal is about facilitating access to free-care accommodation in rented premises. Specifically, the bill will mean that the lease relationship between the tenant wishing to operate a free-care accommodation business and the owner of the property will be subject to the Commercial Rental Act in the future and not to the Rent Act and the Housing Regulation Act, as is the case today. This will give the parties more freedom than they are today to agree on the precise terms of the lease themselves. In this way, the legal basis for the lease between the owner and the landlord is changed in order to ensure greater freedom and to attract more operators on the supply side. This will ultimately mean better and cheaper free-care accommodation, while at the same time the residents will continue to be protected in the same way as in the rental law. We therefore support the proposal in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123922	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027123929	Thank you very much. I'll be relatively brief. It is explained that the proposal amends the scope of the lease law so that leases intended to be used for the operation of free-care homes will in future be covered by the Commercial Rental Act. The proposal merely amends the main rental contract between the property owner and the provider of free-care accommodation. It is, in our view, more correct to say that the lease agreement is an agreement on a commercial lease, and the legal position of residents is not altered by this. That is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124000	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124006	This bill makes it possible to rent its property to a free nursing home, and the Radical Left can support that. We see no reason why landlords should not do so, and we note that the Ministry is responding to the Elders case, that the legal position of the elderly does not change. We support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124032	Thank you to the rapporteur. This time we move on to the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124039	Thank you. As has already been said, this proposal will place free-care homes under industrial rental law, because it is supposed to be more flexible. In this particular case, it will mean that the rent increases because there is freedom of agreement and not regulation. It is such a kind of flexibility that the SF just does not support. It can, among other things, be used. This means that a number of rental-regulated apartments are transferred to free-care homes because it gives the landlord a profit and thus gives it fewer relatively cheap apartments available to other citizens. That's why the SF is on an equal footing with the Land Organization of Rents against this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124130	Thank you. And then, sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, arrived and is hereby allowed to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124138	Thank you. I would like to say very clearly that Enhedslisten is opposed to this bill, because it means that there will be a freer rental when the lease becomes subject to the industrial lease law instead of the rental law as it is now. We really think that there is an important issue that needs to be clarified, and that is: are free-care homes to be regarded as housing? And can the Commercial Rental Act apply to the regulation of rental contracts, according to Section 1 of the Commercial Rental Act? The Act applies to the rental, including subletting, of premises exclusively rented out to non-residential residents. I think that is actually a fairly clear wording, which surely means that you cannot make this bill, that you cannot make this amendment. It will then be very important to clarify it and clarify it in a committee procedure. We very much fear that this bill will help make it possible to make more money out of the free-care homes. In other words, it is private operators who may have better opportunities to enter and build structures that include more companies that are a little tenants to themselves, and then it ends up being more expensive for the elderly. And our great concern about this bill is that there is further liberalisation of something that we really think should develop in public rather than in public. So basically, we are against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124316	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124324	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. The aim of the bill is to make the operation of free-care accommodation in rented premises more flexible and to increase the contractual freedom in the lease relationship between the property owner and the free-care accommodation provider. The bill will mean that the lease relationship between the owner of the property and a tenant who is to operate a free-care accommodation in the premises will in future be covered by the Commercial Rental Act rather than, as today, by the Rent Act and the Housing Regulation Act, which regulates residential rentals. This will give the parties greater freedom to agree on the terms they consider appropriate in the particular case. By way of example, it is the supplier who is responsible to the tenants and the public for the safe maintenance of the property and the individual leases, but when the lease agreement, as it is today, is covered by the lease law, it cannot be agreed that the landlord will take over part of the owner's maintenance obligation. This makes the home-care provider dependent on the owner fulfilling his obligations, and this is not appropriate. I would like to emphasise that it is only the legal basis for the lease between the owner of the property and the free-care provider that is changing. The residents will, as they do today, be subletters and protected by the rent law with the amendments provided for in the Free Care Housing Act. So there is no change in the contractual relationship between the home-care provider and the residents. The protection currently in force will also apply after the proposed amendment of the law. Just as today, the owner himself will not be able to be a landlord in relation to the residents unless the owner himself is certified as a free-care provider, and this is not a matter of operating the company in rented premises. The short of the long term is that free-care accommodation providers operate a business that is strictly regulated by the law and that in the free-care housing law it is provided that the company can operate in rented premises. Therefore, it is only reasonable that the lease agreement between the owner of the property and the free care provider, i.e.: the two operators must be subject to the same rules as apply to all other leases used for professional activities, and that is only what the bill is about. When we now propose that the relationship between the owner of the property and the free-care provider should be covered by the Commercial Rental Act, which is more suitable to regulate the lease relationship between traders than the lease law is, we expect that there will be more operators on the supply side who have so far been reluctant to invest in properties suitable for free-care homes. This must ultimately mean that it will be easier and cheaper for free-care accommodation providers who want to run their business in rented premises to find suitable premises for the purpose, and that is only good. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for your positive comments. I look forward to the committee reading in this positive spirit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124636	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124655	We're opening the negotiations, and that's sir. Kaare Dybvad of Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124716	Thank you for that, President, and thank all the listeners who are here to see the discussion of the proposal of something as interesting as digital communication in rented homes. After all, it is good that the residential area can also arouse interest in the younger part of the population. After all, it is an agreement that we have made about using an e-mail when you live as a tenant, and we think it is fundamentally positive that you can promote digital communication to the extent that it is of course done in a way that people who do not want to use digital communication can avoid it. All in all, however, we have to say that it will be cheaper to use e-mail rather than mail, not least with the developments we have seen in the postal services over the last few years. It is in demand in many places, both from those who live in the homes, but also especially from those who rent them, because they are usually the ones who will make up for the saving that is. I actually think it's hard in this case to find some problems with this bill. I think that the vast majority of situations have been taken into account which we might be concerned about. I think it is quite reasonable that you register yourself. I think it is a fine objection that some people point out that you should have it on e-Boks instead of having it on an ordinary e-Boks, but to that we have to say that at least until now no solution has been found so that private people can use e-Boks in the same way as public authorities do. This is primarily a form of public communication. Of course, there will be a risk that some emails will go in a spam filter somewhere when you send emails around to people. This is also true in all other contexts, and we must, of course, be aware of this. Basically, we on the part of the Social Democrats believe that we must simplify the housing sector and simplify the rent conditions, as long as this is done with due care for the protection of those who live in the homes, and we think that is done with this proposal. That is why we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124920	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027124927	As Mr. Kaare Dybvad also mentioned this is, after all, an agreement that we reached in June and in which we comply with the desire that has been expressed by a great many different parties to solve the challenges in the field of digital communication in bearing conditions. Digitisation is the future. We must always be careful how quickly we push it through, and I think we have taken that into account in this agreement, where we ensure that those who are exempt from public digital mail can very simply be here immediately and that people who are not already exempted can still ask to be exempted from it. And with only one month's notice, you can actually cancel the digital mail. So that makes very good sense in the view of the Danish People's Party. Both tenants and landlords have wanted this, and we believe that there are great opportunities in it. As Mr. Kaare Dybvad also mentioned, unfortunately, the e-Boks solution is not within the framework where everyone can use it, but we have taken into account in the agreement here that hopefully it will be an option, so that hopefully we will not have to change the legislation again when we get there. So I think all in all that we have made a really good deal here, and that is why we can of course recommend the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125044	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Britt Baker, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125050	With the bill here, we are implementing a broad political agreement. It is an agreement that focuses precisely on promoting the possibility of using digital communication in private and general housing conditions. It is fully in line with developments in our society. I am not going to go into the details of this bill, but I would just like to mention that the proposal here removes the current barriers to digital communication between tenants and landlords. Against this background, the Left expects the proposal to include, among other things: will result in lower administrative costs for the landlords and make communication between the parties more flexible and more efficient. In conclusion, I would like to stress that the proposal here does not impose on tenants that they should use digital communication in the future. Those tenants who, for one reason or another, do not wish to use digital communications will continue to have the possibility to be exempted from that right just like those who are exempt from digital mail. In the Left, we believe that the proposal here supports forward-looking communication between tenants and landlords with the obvious benefits that this brings, while taking into account those tenants who do not want to use digital communication. We therefore support the proposal and I should like to say on behalf of the Conservative People's Party that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125228	Thank you. And then, actually, it's sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten, according to normal order here in the Things. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125248	I'm sorry I'm late. We are in favour of the legislative proposal that has been made here and that is the consequence of an agreement that has been reached. But I do not think we can solve everything anyway, because what is rather a dilemma is that the way we communicate, the habits that exist in this respect, are constantly changing. The part about being terminated in your home is actually a hugely important announcement to be sure to get, if that's where it ends, that your landlord terminates you in the accommodation you have. I think it makes sense that this communication can continue to take place per year. We are then also in an age in which we receive less and less mail, and that is to say, there can be people who do not have the habit of going and opening their metal box, their mailbox, and emptying it. There are, in fact, young people who are not used to receiving letters physically at all and who do not think that they should regularly empty their mailbox. At the same time, there are other generations who may be connected to all of this with email systems etc., but where we do not know if a spam filter can take some important message or that people can miss an important message. So I think we need to follow up on this to see if we can do even better, because it is clear that digital communication is extremely important, but perhaps at some point we also need to come up with an answer to ultra-important messages to a tenant who resigns. So we stand by this bill, but we also think there is reason to keep up with what might be done by inappropriateness as a result of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125437	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125442	The draft law under consideration here aims to create administrative facilities in relation to the communication between the tenant and the landlord of a rental residence. The proposal alters the point of departure in housing conditions that digital communication requires an agreement on the requirement of writtenness. Instead, the written form in which to communicate will be optional for the parties. In order to ensure a balanced arrangement for the benefit of all sections of the population, the Parties may require exemption from digital communication. This may, for example, be the case if one of the parties is exempted from receiving digital mail. At the same time, the proposal provides better opportunities for digitally implementing immigration and removal supervision and obligation to offer services. In the Liberal Alliance, we support the proposal that will ease the administrative burden on both tenants and landlords who will be able to communicate digitally in the future and thus avoid the cost of physical mail correspondence. This is both sensible and effective, and that is why we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125550	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125556	Thank you very much. We believe that a sensible balance has been struck in the agreement here on digital communication in bearing conditions. As Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen pointed out that there are very different ways to receive communication, and for some generations a letter is the common one, and for others a letter is as uncommon as anything. There will be freedom to choose whether to have digital communication or written communication, and we must, of course, be aware that the extensive digitalisation that is taking place in these years does not put citizens with weak digital skills at a disadvantage in any way. However, we believe that this has also been taken into account in the agreement, since it is possible to demand exemption from digital communications. Of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125649	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125654	The purpose of the amendment is to enable digital communication between tenants and landlords. In short, the Radical Left agrees with the law and supports it, and from our point of view it is perfectly logical that rental contracts can also be exchanged digitally if you wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125720	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF, as the last rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125725	Yes, as the last rapporteur this time. Welcome to the digital age, now also to the housing sector. It is true, natural and certainly also wanted by many that the housing sector can now supply and handle letters, contracts and communications digitally. It is, of course, crucial that in the housing sector too, it is possible for citizens who are not ready for the new age to still be able to receive ordinary letters and paper contracts, but this has also been taken into account in the proposal. SF will, of course, vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027125810	Thank you to the rapporteurs for the positive reception of the draft law. This bill stems from the increased focus that technological developments have set on promoting the possibility of using digital communication in housing-rent conditions. The aim of the proposal is to support the efficient operation of rental property by achieving administrative facilitations in the ongoing communication between the landlord and tenants. The system is balanced so that it takes into account those sections of the population who are not yet sufficiently qualified to take advantage of the benefits of technological development. The bill will mean that the form of communication between landlords and tenants is, as a rule, optional, unlike today, when it requires prior agreement in order to communicate digitally. It will therefore be up to the individual to put an end to digital communication, and it will only be a minority that does not yet see the clear advantages of digital communication. The rental law contains many provisions requiring writing, both for landlords and tenants. For example: the landlord's warnings must be written, as must the tenant's objections. The requirement of writing today cannot be met by digital communication unless it is agreed between the landlord and tenant, and even here the agreement can be terminated by one party without notice at any time. This legal situation may, for some, hinder the transition to digital communication, even for people who have a clear desire to be able to communicate digitally to a greater extent. The fact that digital documents meet the requirements of the law in writing is now beyond doubt. Thus, when the bill proposes to repeal the rules on digital communication in the rental law, this means that in future the parties can choose their own form of communication. This means that an actual agreement on this should no longer be concluded between the landlord and the tenant. This incentive to increase the use of digital communications also provides an administrative relief for both landlords and tenants. This should also be seen in the light of the fact that the vast majority of tenants and landlords want an increased opportunity to use digital communication. Digital communication can, however, be a disadvantage for a small group of citizens. This takes account of the fact that digital communication cannot take place if one of the parties is exempted from digital mail in the digital mail law of public senders and communicates this to the landlord. The Parties may also, with one month's notice, require that digital communication no longer be allowed to take place. The above-mentioned scheme is the main feature of the draft law, but the draft law also contains other provisions. In relation to the transmission of the report on removal from sight, it is clarified so that there is no longer any doubt that this can be done digitally. This is a clarification that both landlords and tenants have asked for. It is also specified that the information to be provided by the landlord in connection with the obligation to offer may be provided digitally. The bill does not alter the requirement of physical in writing when it comes to the termination and termination of landlords. The reason for this is that the tenants in these cases are very intrusive measures which mean that the need to avoid miscommunication in these cases must weigh more heavily than the need for easier communication. The bill will help ease the administrative burden on landlords. Similarly, the tenants will benefit from an administrative relief, since communication with the landlord can be done digitally without the cost of physical mail. I would like to thank you once again for the positive comments and I look forward to the committee's reading in the same positive spirit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130154	We also thank the Minister. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130226	The negotiations have been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr. Kaare Dybvad of Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130237	Thank you for that, President. Now we have had two relatively easy legislative proposals, and then there will be such a collection of different cases. L 62 is a draft law which contains a number of important issues which have been put together in the Social Democratic Party, but I will take them from the end. Firstly, in relation to the modification of the authorising system, we think that this is a bad proposal. We have received a letter from the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Housing Companies, BL, stating what I was also convinced from the outset, precisely that the housing companies and the municipalities are already fully able to make the arrangements that they consider necessary. Should there be municipalities that cannot find out, the parties even make themselves available to go out with some knowledgeable people and find out how to make such an agreement. In this light, I find it difficult to see who exactly benefits from this proposal, and I find it difficult to see the need for it. And we really want to call on the government to weed it out of this bill when you don't really know who wanted it, and when you really just create a red tape on the direction that happens every day in many of the major municipalities around the country, in other words through agreements with the local housing companies. Secondly, there is the possibility of creating youth housing without kitchen facilities, bath facilities, etc., and we really think there are some positive things in that part of the proposal. We believe that there are many young people's homes • almost all those being built today, over 99%. This is fine, but there must also be an opportunity to build a little cheaper. Among other things, there are: was a case in Aarhus, where the residents of the Park Colleges wanted to keep their dorm rooms without bathroom, toilet and kitchen, and that option also has to be available. Young people are different, just like everyone else. Thirdly, there is the question of the use of old-age housing as housing for the elderly. On the part of the Social Democratic Party, we support this part, provided that this is, of course, done through voluntary agreements between housing companies and municipalities. Fourthly, there is the question of dispensing with accessibility requirements for people with disabilities. We are very critical of this, both because we believe it is moving in the wrong direction in relation to the historical development that has taken place, where disabled people have got better conditions, and because it goes against the whole spirit of the general sector, where through the Landsbygningsfonden in recent years 10,000 homes have been renovated, so that there has been better accessibility. We believe that people with disabilities should be allowed to move and choose housing, and we believe in particular that when it comes to housing for the elderly, it is important that there is accessibility, because this often happens in the way that older people move into a dwelling while they have the ability to do so. Along the way, of course, you get older and some get worse. Then suddenly you end up using a walker or something, and then you're sitting in an apartment where there's no availability. After all, this is an unfortunate situation which can quickly end up being expensive or at least difficult for the individual elderly. So we're skeptical about that part. Fifthly, there is the proposal to cover damage in general care homes. There we in the Social Democrats can support the proposal to the extent that, through this formal equality, there is no slippage, so that nursing homes are seen as a cheap alternative, because in the long term we do not think that benefits any parties. Sixthly, there is the question of disposing of general housing units. There we think it is important to emphasise that residents should have the opportunity to vote on it. We do not think it is fair that a general housing department should be able to be disposed of without the local democracy having had an influence on it. That was the individual parts of the bill. Now I have one minute left and so I would like to say a few general things anyway. I think it is a pity that the Social Democrats feel that the government is so busy regulating the general sector. We have a fantastic model in Denmark where you have housing companies that have been set up voluntarily, which receive a little bit of public support, and which solve some huge social tasks in this society. And we think that we should be very careful to constantly make legislation, to constantly change their terms. Some of it comes without anyone wanting it. Some of it comes because you have some idea that someone might want it. But the fact is that the general sector works very well and solves some major societal tasks. We also think that peace should be given to them to be able to do this, perhaps sometimes together with the municipalities, perhaps sometimes completely independent, without the Christiansborgs constantly having to come up with new legislation. And we really think it is important, as a general consideration, to include here that it is not our job to regulate the general sector at all times. So with these comments, I have to say that the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130740	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Britt Baker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130745	Thank you. I note that the Social Democrat rapporteur says that he is incomprehensible that the government chooses to regulate a well-functioning market. Does the rapporteur recognise that the desire to extend the authorising right came from the KL in the economic agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130812	I don't think I used the word market. I do not believe that the relationship between general housing and municipalities is a market situation. In fact, if you have to say something about it, I think it is more of a civil society situation. After all, it is a democratic organisation that negotiates with a democratic organisation. But I have not been in economic negotiations, and if anyone from the KL has said so along the way, then it is something sloppy. But what we can see now is that nobody is interested in it, and then I think you should pack it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130846	To that extent, I agree with the rapporteur, but I have to respond when the rapporteur says that this government is over-implementing and is in charge of regulating a well-functioning market. Because when we go in and extend this authorising right, it's because it's been a desire of the parties. And then we have to review whether it should be changed if that desire no longer exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130914	Well, I am aware that the bourgeois see general housing as a market, but as I said before, I see it as democratic organisations negotiating with each other. And then I would like to say that this should not go too far in such a rapporteur's speech about several situations. So, earlier attempts were made to raise the municipal deposits in the homes to 20 and 24 per cent respectively, and no one wants that. We are on the way to creating a state bank that can provide loans, and that is not something that comes from the sector either. Sometimes you can get a little nervous about where these wishes really come from, whether they come from anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130946	Thank you very much, sir. Kaare Dybvad, and welcome to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027130956	There is no doubt that this bill will take a little longer than the previous two. Normally, the Danish People's Party will support a proposal, which is, of course, the implementation of a two-party agreement between the National Association of Municipalities and the Government, but as I read the consultation answers, the National Association of Municipalities has opened the ballet, and so I will allow myself to raise a number of concerns to the various areas. First, we have the flexible municipal authorising right to general housing where it is intended to reverse the existing rules, so that it is no longer the housing organisation that makes housing available to the municipalities, but that in future the housing organisations must make all the housing available to the municipalities, which can then select the housing that they find most necessary in relation to their emergency housing list. It is a little incomprehensible to me that the National Association of Municipalities does not think that this is an excellent idea, since one has confidence in one's municipalities outside that they will not abuse this opportunity. But the concern that we have in the Danish People's Party is that most municipalities will unfortunately choose all the cheap, small homes, and they will therefore be removed from the market rather quickly, and those who have been waiting for years will suddenly not be able to have a small, cheap accommodation. The part that has also been one of the concerns here is whether a tenant is likely to have to pay rent for longer if it is this continuous registration that the housing organizations have to make. In fact, I think the Minister has managed to respond well, so that is no longer a concern we have. So our primary concern is that we believe that the municipalities will take the small, cheap housing. The next one is housing for people in general housing. There have been some comments made by the Ankestyrelsen, with which we are actually one hundred percent in agreement. We fear that some municipalities may see an idea in changing the award criteria for elderly and nursing homes, which are already too hard in our opinion in many municipalities. Then we also fear for these retirement homes. It may well be that they intend to last only for up to two years, but that is no guarantee, and that means that suddenly we risk that these homes will be used for longer than they intended for 2 years and we see it as a potential slippery path for it to be better able to put people in these accommodations rather than in an offer that is much more suitable. In addition to this, we are somewhat surprised at the fact that we have actually adopted L 61 on free-community experiments, which opens up precisely this opportunity in some municipalities, and we think it is meaningful to wait and see what the free-community attempt will bring before we spread the law throughout the country without knowing the potential consequences. Then there's this thing about requirements for general new construction. We welcome the part concerning youth housing so that they can be established without kitchen, bathroom and toilet. We believe that it makes sense that young people have the opportunity to establish themselves together, just as they can actually do in colleges. It's gonna be the same concept, you might say. With regard to housing for the elderly, we find it inappropriate to open up the possibility of relaxing the requirements relating to accessibility for disabled people. As Mr. Kaare Dybvad mentioned, we know that when the elderly move into a home, they often get worse physically over time and will therefore often need more disabled homes in the long term. At the decorating of the elderly homes, we already know today that very often you have to establish these small kitchen niches. We also know that many municipalities, even after their establishment, are in fact decoupling them again, because it is not appropriate in the vast majority of elderly homes. We think this is silly, but it is simply done alone in order to obtain housing support, because the elderly simply cannot get housing support if there is not this kitchen niche. It does not make any sense, and I must therefore acknowledge that we are somewhat disappointed that the Ministry of Employment is not opening up to look at this inappropriate law in addition to wanting to look at it in connection with the free community attempt. So we really hope that the Minister for Employment will think again, as it is a little waste of money and investment to put money in something that is being removed after all. It doesn't make sense. Then we have the municipal coverage of damage caused by certain tenants in general housing. It makes very good sense, of course, that a municipality can help pay for the damage that a citizen can do to housing, but again we are a little concerned about that, because we need to consider which people you put into general housing. Here there are the border cases up to these § 108 offers, and if we again open up too much here, our fear is that it will again be a slippery slope, where it is said that we have better opportunities to remedy possible future problems if you move them into general housing by being able to pay the damage. We consider it appropriate that the individual citizen should actually be taken as a starting point and give them the precise offer that they are entitled to and need. I see time is running fast. Yeah, that's how it goes, but please finish it if it's not too far). The latter is the sale of general housing for urban policy reasons, and there is the most important advantage for us that, in the case of the sale of general housing, the tenants are guaranteed the same rent as they have had up to now and this will ensure that they do not suddenly find themselves in a deteriorating economic situation. So that part of it we think is actually quite good. But overall we find it rather odd in a two-party agreement that one part obviously does not find the content satisfactory, so we are wondering whether the Minister should not consider whether it is worthwhile to continue with this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131559	Thank you very much to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen from the Danish People's Party and welcome Mrs Britt Baker from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131609	It is no secret that there is a high demand for general housing. We in the Left recognise this, and that is why we basically support the government's work to secure more general housing and to make it cheaper to live in a general home. We do, for example. by improving the efficiency of the general housing sector by digitising the general housing sector, but also, as with the bill here, by concrete measures aimed at ensuring more affordable general housing. This concerns, among other things: on the right of municipal authorising officers, the right to take up residence and the simplification of the requirements for the construction of buildings. As you know, the general housing sector is undertaking an enormously important housing social task. That is why this type of housing is an important element in our housing market, so I am pleased that the aim of the proposal is to help ensure as varied a housing supply as possible. BL and KL expressed their concern in their hearing as to whether the extended authorising law of the municipalities would lead to more vacant dwellings. Against this background, the comments of the proposal were modified so that the housing organisations should not inform the municipality about vacant dwellings once a month, but instead should do so on a regular basis. In this way, we should reduce the risk of vacant housing. It is therefore with a little surprise that I have noted that this week KL and BL have approached the Danish Parliament's housing rapporteurs with a wish that the rules for authorisation should not be changed anyway. Of course, when I receive such a request, I take it seriously. We should not change the legislation if some of those who have the most to do with the area in this case KL and BL do not think it is either necessary or appropriate. I have had a dialogue with the Minister that we are in the process of adopting legislation that would be counterproductive, namely to make things more difficult, and without revealing the whole of the Minister's speech in advance, it is my clear impression that the Minister agrees that this government does not, of course, adopt legislation which does not seem to work and which there is no desire for. However, I would like to say that the Left supports the intention behind this proposal, and that is why I would also like to look forward to the work of the committee, where we will probably make some adjustments, especially in view of the recent request from KL and BL. I would also like to say that the Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131901	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131905	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for her speech. Does the rapporteur think that it is a matter of due diligence not to require access for people with difficulty and disabled people to housing for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131926	I just didn't get the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131934	I think it would be easiest if we allowed the rapporteur ten seconds to explain it so that everyone can hear it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131937	I'll take it on me! Does Mrs Baker think that it is a matter of due care to build old people's homes where there is no access to disability, for example? Level-free access, lifts, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027131958	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132001	I understand the rapporteur's concern and it is also one of the things I have touched upon when I have read this proposal. After all, when we have proposed this, it is with a desire to reduce costs and not make construction more expensive than is absolutely necessary. However, I have also attached myself to this, and I must honestly admit that, since the rapporteur uses the phrase of due diligence, I would say that no, it is not due diligence that has been aimed at this. It has been intended to limit the economy of it so that we make it as cheap for the tenant as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132036	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132042	After all, it is cheap to build it, and thus there is also a cheap rent, but does the rapporteur recognise that it can then become more expensive, because the municipality must provide some tools or maybe remodel something, or that it may just end up with the residents having to relocate a home where they may feel comfortable, because there may not be other homes in the same building available?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132109	Yes, and I recognise that this is a dilemma, and I recognise that this can be the consequence of it, and that is of course not appropriate. We must always find a balance between getting as cheap housing as possible and, of course, having the quality they need when they are intended for older people who can have a different need in a very short time. So I recognise that this is a dilemma, and it is also one of the things that we need to talk about during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132138	The technician who gives Members the floor for the first and second time is not in this room, so it is important that you press both times. That is to say, you press the button when you wish to speak for the first time for a brief remark, and if you want to speak for the second time for a brief comment, you press it again. Then it facilitates the work of the technician, because then he or she will know exactly what kind of microphone he or she has to open. But there is a brief comment from Mrs Merete Dea Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132207	That's just a little further, sir. Kaare Dybvad mentioned. Because, as I recall, there has been a clear desire from the municipalities in the free municipalities that they could go in and reduce these things, including in elderly homes. So, as I understand it, it's the way it's come in. It is a request from the municipalities, i.e. KL, to the government, and that is probably why it is included in the proposal. Is that something that Mrs Britt Baker also remembers is correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132235	Well, I see this and many other things in this proposal as wanting from KL, and I can then note that KL withdraws some of the wishes, and that is rather strange, so to speak. That is why I would like to say in general terms that we support this proposal. I think that the process that has been going on in the area of housing for the elderly and the process that has been going on in relation to the requirements for elderly housing have been a tiny bit strange, and that is why I can only say that I am looking forward to the committee's reading. Every party that supports this must be interested in getting it narrowed in. I am not and we in the Left are not interested in implementing legislation which, in principle, is not desirable, but I must also say that it was my clear impression that this wish came from the KL.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132322	Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132327	This is a little special legal treatment. We have a bill on which the governing parties do not support it, and when there is an additional consultation answer in the last round which points out that this amendment to the authorising right is not something that is wanted by the housing companies, it is, of course, fair enough that we are listening to it. We can change that in the proposal via a committee procedure. However, the second condition is what kind of elderly housing we are doing and whether we have a standard that makes them disabled, so that the people who live there will have the opportunity to stay in their homes if they become difficult to walk or their spouse is difficult to walk or if they are going to have guests who may have difficulty walking. Does the rapporteur not think that this is a completely wrong direction to take when we have an ageing population, that we do not then build something that is suitable for disabled people?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132427	I am simply impressed by Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's ability to overhear my last remarks in my speech, in which I said, however, that I must say that the Left continues to support this proposal. The Left supports the proposal, the Left supports the Minister, the Left supports the government, but we will, of course, take up the points that there are, if not disagreements, then at least doubt about what is intended and who really wanted it. I think we should do the same. So, just to reply to the last point, I would like to say that this is exactly the same answer that I gave to Mr McMahon. Kaare Dybvad: I believe that this is a balance between securing cheap housing, including for the elderly, and ensuring quality housing. Of course, the elderly should not zap from one home to another, but experience that we have housing that is designed for the need to change when you are an older year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132528	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132531	But now we are building housing in a standard so that they can stand for 100 years, and therefore it is reasonable enough to include the trends that exist in society, among other things. people get older and older. So I find it hard to understand the conclusion that the Left draws from this bill. One has the whole analysis that there is something wrong with the bill, and then one concludes that one is loyal to the ministers who are in the government. I understand that there may be a problem of loyalty. But look at the contents, and then try to come to a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132601	Well, I know what we do in committee is to make a bill better. We are changing things that are not appropriate. So this bill could easily be made an excellent legislative proposal when it comes to committee. To Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's first remark: I can easily understand that Enhedslisten cannot understand that we want to make the most of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132624	Thank you very much, Mrs Baker, for today's work, or at least this part of it, and welcome to Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027132632	Well, that's an interesting debate. On the issue of authorising the general housing, I think it is extremely important that we have identified what the negative consequence can be if the municipality has the opportunity to direct all the cheapest housing in the general sector. Then there will be some places where you will have some departments that are difficult to operate because all residents have been assigned to it. Now it is not the case that, because you have been assigned a dwelling, you have to face huge problems. It may be that you have divorced and want to stay with your children in the local area where the children go to school. So it is not to talk it out that it is only a matter of problems if you have been assigned to a dwelling. But if you look at the reality out there, you see that there are already many departments that are carrying out a very large social task, where there is not much extra residents to do before you can do that task. I think it would be important if we were to have more instruments than pointing out that citizens with social problems can have housing in the general sector. I think it is essential to look into whether the authorising right can be established to a greater extent for private rentals. We have, for example. cooperatives, where there are not 100 per cent cohabitants, but where some tenants still live there, and there one could examine the extent to which agreements can be made with cooperative housing associations to dispose of some of the dwellings that have not been converted into a cohabitation. We have to get there, because otherwise we can have the annual school bit that there are some residential areas with general housing that are considered vulnerable areas, and then you can make overall plans and try to help etc., and then perhaps ten years may pass, and then they have come out of the problems that were in such a department. I believe that there are several residential areas that should help to fulfil the social task. So to the thing about the youth housing and the standard that's in it. I can see an advantage in having it relaxed so that you can build youth housing without having to have your own kitchen. But I think that if you choose that path, you should also look at the housing subsidy, because otherwise we end up with some youth housing with kitchens that can get housing support, and then you build some right next door without a kitchen, which then cannot get housing support, and which may end up becoming an expensive home for the student. Then you won't get anything out of this change of law. I think it's fair enough to go in and see if you can make modern dormitories, if you can make some units where there may be five young people who share a kitchen. I think it is a good thing that the draft law here allows for this, but I just think that there is a lack of good arguments about the fact that it is not, as it were, set aside for the housing subsidy to be changed as well. Because that will be necessary, otherwise it will be a law that has no effect, and I do not think that such laws should be adopted. Then you also think you should look at the students' hearing responses. Of course, this is also borne by the fact that there are so many students who want their SU to reach a little more than the rent, and there are many students who actually spend their entire SU on their rent. It's not durable. A study has been carried out that students weigh low-cost housing during their studies, and this can help to ensure this. If you lower the standard but at the same time get some attractive housing, because there are some common areas where there is a community that can develop, these can be excellent solutions. About the handicapped housing, well then we have to build something that we think is also good solutions in 20, 50 and 60 years. If you look at what it is that we get from impairments along the way, then it is an advantage that older people can stay in their homes, even if they have a lower mobility, i.e. that you have a bathroom and a toilet that you can use, even if you lose some flexibility; that you can have visitors who are in wheelchairs. That is why I think it is essential to stick to standards that are future-proof and to build suitable housing for people with disabilities. So about the sale of the general housing: Well, I think it is fundamentally important that things should happen in a sale. It could be in a town where you want to make some urban renewal and where a housing association is in the way. Is that what the problem is, is that what the intention is? Then I think it is extremely important that the Housing Association section also has a right to vote and must vote in favour of a sale so that it does not happen where it is only the housing organisation that can make that decision over the heads of the residents. I think that is essential. So that is our reservation on that point. As the entire bill now stands, we cannot support it on the part of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133144	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133148	I would like to ask the rapporteur what concerns residence halls. Does the rapporteur not recognise that, regardless of how the rules on housing support are and we can then agree that it is not optimal, as it is today, there are some young people, for example. in the Park College in the rapporteur's own home town, which simply wants a more simple dorm room? They do not want to have a kitchenette and a large bathroom, but may see an advantage in that there can also be a community in standing and cooking together etc. Does the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133229	Yes, I fully agree with that, and I thought it was really nice that the residents of the Park College in Aarhus were prevented from merging rooms so that they would in principle have that dorm. I think it was very good that they protested and ensured that there was still a dorm there. However, if we look at things in the future and what can be rebuilt, then I would say that I think it is therefore an important point to make that young people living in those conditions can also obtain housing security. And in committee we may have to have a few crowns and ears on what the reality is right now in relation to the housing aid that is being given. Well, what will it be if you have your own kitchen, and what will it be if you build something where there are the same square meters, or where there are 2 m2 less? What is the level of rent that will be, and what will be lost in public aid? Because if there is no balance in it, you can say that nothing will be done. In other words, there is nothing that is not appropriate, and I do not think that I can see in the annexes here, i.e. the answers to the hearings, that there are good arguments for why this should not be changed. You just don't think it's appropriate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133340	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen and welcome to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133348	Thank you. This is an interesting debate we have here today. The bill amends a number of rules in the General Housing Act. The most central change is that the municipalities are given a more flexible authorising right for ordinary family homes. In addition, it allows for the establishment of housing for the elderly in general housing, while simplifying the requirements for the design of general new buildings. The overall objective of all this is to provide better opportunities for municipalities and housing organisations to build more cheap general housing. These are measures that make real sense, especially when demand for cheap housing is increasing as it is at present. With this bill, it will be up to the individual municipality to determine the design of newly built elderly and youth housing. In this way, therefore, the municipality is given greater room for manoeuvre so that local demand can be taken into account in terms of both price and quality. In the Liberal Alliance we think it is sensible to leave it to the municipalities to decide on the design of newly built general housing. Municipalities will now be able to create a more varied supply of housing which can meet many different wishes and needs. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance support the proposal. I have the impression that this is something that the National Association of Municipalities has wanted and that the government has listened to and complied with in the municipal negotiations. But if the National Association of Municipalities has changed their wishes or there have been misunderstandings, then we must look at it during the further reading of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133534	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133537	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. There were some things I didn't quite get into. Firstly, does the rapporteur think that it is a matter of due care to build old people's homes where there is no access to disability? Secondly, does the rapporteur think that it makes sense to build youth housing without kitchen, bathroom and toilet? Thirdly, does the rapporteur think that it makes sense to close down and sell general housing units without involving the resident democracy in the individual department?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133616	Now it is not the case that all elderly people need, for example. a wheelchair. And immediately it makes sense to leave it to the municipalities to assess how much of the homes you expect will need access with wheelchairs, so that you do not spend money on designing all the homes, for example. Only a quarter of the homes will need it. So at first it makes sense. With regard to youth housing and kitchens, bathrooms and toilets, I think it is important to listen to young people if there are those who want to live more spartanly in order to get cheaper rents or if there are other wishes. Well, then you have to adjust the market to that. I simply did not get the last question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133704	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133708	Thank you. The last question was whether the rapporteur thinks that if you sell a general housing unit, you should have the opportunity, what is it called, to involve the resident democracy that is in this department? Well, this is the part where those who live in the department make decisions about maintenance and operation, etc. So in relation to the answer to the first question: does the rapporteur not think that it can prove very expensive for a municipality if you build elderly homes without access to disability and the elderly then later have to have all kinds of aids and assistance or conversion to make everything go up when they may have lost their ability?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133748	Well, it may be that it can be more expensive if you think it is not necessary at first and then you have to rebuild it instead of doing it from the beginning. But I think it is the municipalities that can best assess what is needed and what is not needed. Because it can be even more expensive if we dictate from here that all homes should only have that access, even if only a proportion of them need it. So I believe that the municipalities, which are closest to the citizens, have the best opportunity to assess this properly and thereby make it most efficient and most economically viable. As far as the last question is concerned, we must always listen to the people who have to do the things we have to do. You have to listen, and then you have to see how far you can get together and how you can meet each other. Obviously, you shouldn't sit in here and dictate everything. The more you can get users involved in all decisions, the better it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133850	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027133854	Well, with regard to involving citizens, it is very simple in a general housing association, because there you have a resident democracy, so there is just to hold a departmental meeting and ask the residents what they think and what they think the board should sign. So there we have seen a construction that allows the residents affected by a planned sale to be fully involved. But that's just what you want to get rid of with this bill, so you can run it over the people's heads. What I have of questions is about the handicapped housing. It is true that you can ask out in the municipalities how many people are driving wheelchairs now and so on, but I think we have an obligation on the part of the Danish Parliament to create a general framework which will result in a more accessible society. Can the rapporteur not see that with the homes being built now, which are to stand for the next 100 years, it can be an important premise when it is targeted at older people that those homes are in such a way suitable for disabled people?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134005	Yeah, I can see that. That is why I also believe that the overall framework should be to provide municipalities close to the citizens with the best conditions for assessing how many of these homes should be designed for disabled people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134030	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Excuse me, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen had been in favour of another question, so he must have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134034	Well, there are no municipalities that know how many older people will have a blood clot next month and may lose their ability and have to have a walker or sit in a wheelchair. So I do not think it is fair just to say that the municipalities know better. I think that there should be some general rules that we should lay down in this Parliament so that the municipalities can subsequently translate them, but there must be a certain minimum standard. I therefore think it is very reasonable that we should make something accessible suitable for disabled people, that we should be able to come in through the door and out again, that we should be able to go to the bathroom, that we should have guests in a wheelchair. In fact, I think it is a reasonable premise that you are not forced to leave your home if your spouse has a blood clot.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134116	Of course, the homes must be designed for the people who are going to live there. Of course, if it is the elderly and the disabled who are going to live there, the homes must be designed so that they can have a good life. But when it comes to not being able to say who gets a blood clot tomorrow, then no, you can't, but you have a statistical material that you are allowed to go into and ask: How many people usually have a blood clot? How many have needed a wheelchair over the past many years? You can go in and make a fair assessment by looking at the statistical material, plus that they in the municipalities have a much better and closer knowledge of this than we have in here. With regard to minimum standards, perhaps in some municipalities you have a very good service, better than the average may have, and what happens so often, if you go in and make minimum standards, is that in some places you lower quality, because you say: we just have to comply with the minimum standard that then is. So minimum standards can more easily give a worse quality than leaving it to the municipalities to assess in the current situations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134224	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134235	Thank you. Well, it's gonna be exciting now. You have to hope that you have drawn the right lot if you need an elderly home, where you may need a wheelchair at some point. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that people living in elderly homes, who are obviously for the elderly, often need aids that require accessibility or rarely need aids that require accessibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134259	I guess they often need it. And so do the municipalities. It's not just something we know. But as I said, this bill is based on the wishes of the National Association of Municipalities. And if they do not want it that way anyway, or if there are some misunderstandings along the way, we must look, as I said in my rapporteur's speech, at it in committee, whether there are some things that need to be changed or whether there are some things that should not be as it is described here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134327	In other words, citizens living in elderly homes often need aids that require accessibility. And then I have to ask: do the citizens then have to move when they need aids, or do the municipalities have to pay for a conversion so that they can still use the aids on which they become dependent, the older they get? In fact, I doubt that the municipalities themselves think that the last bill would be advantageous. And that could be why the municipalities may not quite think this proposal is fantastic either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134401	Then it is precisely I say that if the municipalities do not want this anyway, we must change it. So it's not anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134407	Thank you to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134416	Thank you very much. That was quite a bill to consider. I tried to get a picture of it, and first I remembered a buffet, but actually the big problem with this bill is that it's not a buffet. It is simply a boiled dish with far too many bitter pills. I can take them from one end of the line. Greater flexibility in the authorising court sounds good, but whoever wants it and just gives it a further red tape. As far as housing for elderly people is concerned, it may be a good solution to exploit overcapacity, but there is also a risk that we will stop some of the development and reconstruction of housing for the elderly, which is becoming increasingly necessary. Then there is the one with the simplification of the design requirements. Now Mrs Kirsten Normann also brought up the fact that it may well be that you have a statistical material, but you do not know who it will be about. On the other hand, it makes perfect sense to create a freer framework for building youth housing, but as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen pointed out that we will have a problem with housing support. Municipal coverage of damage caused by certain tenants also sounds logical on the one hand, and on the other hand there may be a risk that there will be a slippage in the references where the best solution would have been a different kind of offer. On the disposal of general housing for housing policy reasons, I must honestly say that I cannot see through the consequences of that part of the proposal. I think it is a pity that so many and relatively different things have been put together, where I am sure that some of the individual proposals we could have negotiated a common understanding of. Let this be a general call. I know that we will then come to the Chamber and to the platform a little more often; I would certainly like to do so for the opportunity to negotiate the individual parts instead of eating this cooked dish.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134654	Thank you, sir. Nikolai Amstrup. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134659	Now I did not mention it myself in my rapporteur's speech because there is a limit, but I think that the rapporteur has a very good point in relation to that, that this bill, unlike the other two legislative proposals, which are very small and specific, is actually boiling together a lot of quite large decisions. I think that could be relevant, for example. have the same discussion of it with elderly housing and access to disability. I think that is actually a rather big discussion; and the same with the instructions. There are quite large decisions here that have been put together, and that is not appropriate. But if I can lure an answer out of the rapporteur, even though he is not trying to go down too much in it, it is really about what I also asked, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen about earlier, which concerns residences and youth housing and kitchen and bath etc. Where does the alternative stand in relation to that case?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134750	We're very open to it. As has also been mentioned earlier, it may also be a way of living, as many want. It can be a community. It may also be a general desire to live as cheaply as possible, but it is a major problem if the housing support rules do not follow, so that we may run the risk of having cheaper housing, i.e. cheaper to build for those who build them, but the real rent for those who have to live in them will not be different, and that is not what we wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134829	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Amstrup and proceed to Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134840	Unfortunately, the radical housing rapporteur did not have the opportunity to be in this Chamber today, so he has written a speech which I have promised to read out. I shall not do so, because it seems to me that a number of amendments will have to be made during the committee's proceedings, including those relating to the environment. on the basis of a new hearing answer which came yesterday. However, I would like to make it clear from the point of view of the Radicals that we support the intention of the law. We are extremely critical of the part about the dedication of disabled people, so that in future we do not need to make all elderly homes built by the municipalities accessible to the disabled. We are quite critical of that part. But what the overall law will look like after committee reading we will wait. But our starting point, as I said, is that we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134954	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027134959	Thank you. The rapporteur says that the Radical Left supports the intention of this bill. Now, I think there are a lot of different intentions in this bill, so just to make it very clear: does the Radical Left support this amended approach to general housing, which is of course neither the municipalities nor the housing companies are interested in?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135021	Well, since I'm not a radical housing rapporteur, I haven't seen an apparently very late hearing response that has come. And that is why I have not read the rapporteur's speech. Because I do not think that, on the basis of what I have heard in the Chamber today, I can tell you where the radical position is in that particular area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135045	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135050	This is not the first time that the Radicals have difficulty in choosing between two different positions. I guess they're gonna have to use that opportunity again. However, in relation to the issue of youth housing, which I also think is quite central, I would like to ask: how does the Radical Left stand in relation to the possibility of changing toilet and bath requirements, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135113	I would like to start by saying that I do not actually think it is quite fair to say that we are having a difficult time choosing. I am not here as a radical housing rapporteur, and that is why I do not quite have the same conditions. Unlike some other smaller parties which do not put forward a position at all, we just thought it would be better for me to come, despite the fact that, from what I have heard in the Chamber today, there are some things I have doubts about. However, what I have no doubt about is the last part that the Socialist rapporteur is asking about, that is about youth housing. And there we are quite positive. In fact, we are very positive about the flexibility contained in the proposal. It is clear, as the alternative rapporteur also said, that it is of course important that we have a look at whether something is happening about housing support rules. But the starting point is that we are very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135200	Thank you. I should like to say from the Chair that we are also very positive about every single party wishing to take part in the debate in the Chamber. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135223	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. We need to consider a proposal on flexible municipal authorising law, the establishment of housing for the elderly in general, the simplification of the requirements for the installation of new buildings, etc. I have first of all noted that the directly involved stakeholders, namely the National Association of Municipalities and BL, are wondering about the proposal and are supposedly having difficulty seeing the idea of it. In relation to flexible rentals, this is allegedly the possibility for municipalities to dispose of available general apartments for housing social purposes. I think I have seen KL quoted that it is an early Christmas present which, in turn, is not needed. It is of course important that the municipalities have sufficient opportunities to direct housing for housing social purposes, but both KL and BL believe that most municipalities already do. And for the municipalities where there is a problem, a process has been agreed in the municipal agreement for next year. Both KL and BL therefore point out that the proposed model is bureaucratic and that it can, above all, result in a loss of apartments which will be left empty due to the procedure. And that is precisely what will have consequences for the larger municipalities, which already have a lack of housing. The question remains: (1) whether there is at all a problem for which no solution has already been agreed, and (2) whether the proposed solution is at all a solution, or whether the proposal would instead mean a huge bureaucracy and risk that good vacant housing could not be rented at the required rate. We in the SF would, of course, very much like that to be clarified in the next committee. The bill also contains a change in relation to the so-called accessibility requirements in elderly housing. It is proposed that, for example, the requirement for accessibility. A derogation may be granted to wheelchair users. It'll make the apartments a little cheaper. I admit that not all elderly people will need a wheelchair at some point, but it does happen, not so rarely. If the need for a wheelchair arises, what effect will it have on the elderly? Should the elderly then move or should the municipality be subject to high costs for conversion? We know that the number of older people is increasing, and thus we will probably also see an increasing number of wheelchair users. That part of the proposal does not seem well thought out, and the obvious advantage is not very clear either. But perhaps the Minister can explain that in a future committee. The draft law also contains a proposal which allows the provision of youth housing to derogate from the requirement of own kitchen and toilet. This could make youth housing significantly cheaper, and significantly cheaper youth housing is certainly needed. BL believes, however, that youth housing can then be difficult to rent. At least it makes sense to assess whether the demand for what is similar to old-fashioned colleges is large enough if the price reflects the premise. The alternative could have been to look at whether it is possible to make it easier to create real collectives without the high cost of expensive shares etc., but that is not part of the proposal. However, as I said, there is a need for cheap youth housing, and as there is, of course, all opportunities should also be explored. Of course, the proposal will also allow more youth housing to be built within a given budget framework, and we recognise that. However, we are confident that the individual municipality is able to assess whether this type of youth housing will make sense in the individual municipality. Unfortunately, it is more the rule than the exception that the government brings together a number of proposals in the same draft law, and in this case with quite a few more thistles than praises. The overall position of the SF is therefore that we will vote against the proposal in its present form.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135622	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. There are no brief comments. The next one should have been the Conservative rapporteur, but it will be the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027135643	It is the responsibility of the municipalities to ensure that the local supply of housing matches demand. In these years, we are experiencing an increasing need for both small and cheap housing. The demand for cheap housing is increasing, primarily because more and more people choose to live alone, as single families, but also because there are citizens in our society who have a low payment capacity. As a society, we want to create our cities so that everyone can find a good and suitable accommodation. It is a question of ensuring a varied supply of housing which, at the same time, can meet many different needs and needs and meet a number of quality requirements. A number of municipalities have specifically called for better and more flexible opportunities to provide cheap housing. The government and KL have together reviewed the rules for the general housing sector and have identified a number of areas where the rules can be adapted differently so that the municipalities have better opportunities to build cheaply and make better use of existing housing. This is among other things. in relation to the local authority's authorising law, requirements for new construction, integration homes, etc. So this bill consists of the majority of proposals that have been agreed between the government and the National Association of Municipalities in the municipal negotiations. These are proposals which are intended to accommodate the municipalities; they are proposals which the municipalities have wanted to adopt because it would make the lives of the municipalities better. The government does not have a great need to adopt these legislative changes. It is not the case that the life of the government will be easier, it is not the case that the Treasury will have less spending. It is the municipalities that are getting lower costs as a result of these legislative proposals. Therefore, the agreement has been reached between the government and the municipalities. It is some ministers other than me who have negotiated, because this is how the local government talks are going on in the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, I cannot say in detail what has been going on around the table, but I can see that agreement has been reached on what the municipalities want and what the government has to deliver for the municipalities. It is therefore with some astonishment that I find that the National Association of Municipalities is now going out and saying that they do not want any part of this at all, and that I am now going to present a bill written for the sake of the municipalities, but as the municipalities say they do not want to have some of the proposals. But it is also easy for me now to say that if what is the result of this process, where the National Association of Municipalities gradually finds out what the National Association of Municipalities wants to have, is that they do not want to have it all, then we can easily change the bill. However, it would have been easier if the National Association of Municipalities had found out what it wanted before making an agreement on it with the government. Then it could have been in the draft law from the start and not be amended gradually during committee reading. So I think what this debate first and foremost shows is that in these municipal negotiations the National Association of Municipalities might well need a shot of professionalism. But now I want to list what the bill contains. There is a flexible municipal authorising right for general family housing: it is proposed to amend the rules on municipal authorising law in order to improve the ability of municipalities to solve housing social problems. The proposal will allow municipalities to better reconcile housing provision with the needs and wishes of the housing seeker and will at the same time ensure better use of the general housing stock. The result will be that the municipalities will have more cheap housing that they can provide for the benefit of the citizens. Establishment of housing for the elderly: Some municipalities are currently experiencing difficulties in renting out general housing for the elderly. The proposal gives municipalities the opportunity to make available old-age housing for the unemployed as housing for the elderly, and that is to say, to assign the vacant housing to citizens who need to train themselves for a period of time to live for themselves. The proposal thus provides both a better use of the general housing stock and will increase the number of residential housing for the benefit of citizens with such special needs. Simplification of requirements for the design of general new buildings: the aim of the proposal is to extend the scope of the municipalities in relation to the provision of general youth housing and old-age housing. Municipalities and housing organisations have pointed out that there are a number of state requirements for the provision of general youth and elderly housing which can increase the cost of the new building. With the proposal, for example, there will be a reduction in working hours. be able to build cheaper youth housing, since the proposal envisages that the municipalities should be able to decide for themselves whether newly built torum youth housing should be provided with independent kitchen, bathroom and toilet, or whether access to shared facilities is sufficient. Similarly, the proposal allows municipalities to better match the layout of the elderly housing with the actual needs of the residents. There are, for example: no need to set up all elderly dwellings for wheelchair users if only a small proportion of future residents are wheelchair users. Together, fewer design requirements will lead to better use of resources and cheaper youth and elderly housing. Municipal coverage for damage caused by certain tenants in general care homes: It is proposed to improve the ability of municipalities to use general care homes for persons with a mental or physical impairment, although such residents cannot be expected to meet the obligation to treat the rented properly. The proposal provides for the possibility for municipalities to bear the cost of rehabilitation work in general care homes as a result of damage caused by tenants with a mental or physical impairment. The proposal means that people with significant disability and social problems can also be accommodated in general care homes. This will increase the flexibility of municipalities and improve the service that a municipality can provide in relation to its citizens. Legalisation and extension of the practice of disposal and demolition of buildings involving general housing: It is proposed to incorporate into the General Housing Act the practice applied by the Ministry for the treatment of applications for the sale and demolition of general housing for a number of years. The objective reasons for approving the application for the sale and demolition of general housing will now be set out in the General Housing Act. In addition, it is proposed that the current practice of authorising the sale of general housing should be extended. This will allow the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing to approve applications for the sale of general housing when housing stands in the way of new urban development projects being implemented. There are several examples of the fact that the State, on the basis of the practice in force in the case-law, has refused sales applications and has thus prevented the implementation of good urban development projects. These are projects on which a housing organisation and a municipality have agreed locally. In future, it will be up to local actors to make such decisions and to weigh up the consideration given to tenants for the need to implement urban development. However, sales will be required to be essential for the realisation of a local plan or urban planning statute. Thanks for the treatment today. I think the committee procedure is going to be exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140451	There are just a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140456	I think that this will be an exciting committee procedure, in which we will be able to clarify whether there is a majority for something. Because there are, in fact, good elements in this bill, and it makes it a little difficult to deal with the law here in Parliament. And whatever processes have previously been with KL, we must undertake the task of taking stock of what is of consultation responses. In other words, if it is really cheap housing that you want, then perhaps that is what should have been the headline of it all, and perhaps we should have dealt with it in a different way. I think we are missing an evaluation of the 10,000 homes that the former Left Government gave us when they said to the municipalities: we need some refugee housing, some cheap housing, and the state came up with 5%. of the basic capital. As far as I know, 8 000 homes are being built out there, and I really think it might be appropriate in the debate here to include what the effect of this has been. What did you get for government money? Did you secure some small homes? And is that in a standard that, in general, adds something that is good to rent? Does the Minister have any reflections on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140609	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140611	After all, it is beyond the scope of this draft law to deal with proposals which will cost the Treasury as much as that, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen here proposes. This must be part of financial law negotiations, and there I would urge the Enhedslisten to engage constructively in the financial law negotiations and there to promote their proposals. That is the case with all costs: it must be balanced against what you want to spend money on, and you cannot spend money on both one and the other and the third. The Enhedslisten has a lot of spending proposals, and it seems that they cannot all be held at once, even though Denmark's bnp was twice as big.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140652	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140654	After all, financial law negotiations are important and when the government wants to spend 66 billion. kr. on new fighters, there is at least one place to take the money from the security of housing to ordinary people. Well, I actually think the Folketing has an obligation here. When a majority in the Folketing has introduced the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and low integration benefits, how do you ensure housing for those people who are going to try to survive on a very low level of service? That is why I think it is appropriate to include what the alternative to what the government is proposing is. The government's proposal is to reduce the conditions for people with disabilities, so that we have a society that is not accessible to people with disabilities. I do not think that is fair and I think that we should go another way to the society of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140733	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140734	It's not the government's proposal. The Government's proposal is to allow municipalities to build older housing more flexibly and to allow municipalities to assess how many of the elderly homes need to be suitable for wheelchair users and how many there is no need to make suitable for wheelchair users. If the municipalities estimate that 50 per cent. of the new elderly dwellings shall be suitable for wheelchair users, or 80%; or even 90%, according to the municipality's assessment, there will be enough housing for the elderly who need to enter their accommodation with a wheelchair. But it will still be a small saving, i.e. if only 10%. doesn't need to be arranged like that. And if it is the municipality's assessment that it will correspond to the municipality's need for wheelchair-equipped elderly housing, then in the Liberal Alliance and in the government we have confidence that the municipalities can assess their need for disabled elderly housing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140832	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140834	Thank you. I would say in general terms that if the government is such a stamp office where you put forward other people's proposals, which you do not agree with yourself, then I would suggest that you do not do so and then only put forward those proposals which you yourself think are a good idea rather than, as the Minister puts it, take a proposal from the KL and then bring it forward when the KL is not in favour. Anyway, it's the internal process. In general terms, however, in politics, I think you should stand only for what you really mean. But I would like to ask the Minister after the debate that has taken place here: if the Minister were to change this bill, or if there might be a revised version of it, what are some things to be included in it, and what are some things not to be included in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140914	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027140915	Well, it is too early to say, because all the things that the municipalities maintain that they have an agreement with the government and that they want to maintain an agreement with the government must be included. But if the municipalities, for example, are to be found... say that they do not want the more flexible authorising right at all, but then it is not the government's aim to impose the flexible authorising right on the municipalities. We see it as a wish from the municipalities to get it, and that is why it is obviously not right when Mr. Kaare Dybvad says this should actually be against government policy. All of this can be contained in government policy. In other words, politics is often pursued in order to accommodate some people, in this case, in order to accommodate some municipalities. But if these people do not want it, if no one is asking for it, then the government can have a different policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141014	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141017	Thank you. I would like to ask you a little more about this accessibility, because I understand if citizens with disabilities think that the government is making their lives miserable in terms of accessibility, not least because the Minister has also issued an announcement which has made up the accessibility requirement in relation to the general construction of parcel houses, a notice which, moreover, KL has also been critical of the area and now also of the elderly housing. So I would like to ask the Minister: regardless of the fact that the municipalities choose that it is only a percentage of the housing • if they did it now that should not be disabled, that is to say with the increased accessibility, what does the Minister envisage to happen to the citizens on the day they will still need aids that require accessibility? Do they have to move from the home or do the municipalities have to pay for conversions? And will it not in fact ultimately be much more expensive than solving the problem of accessibility from the outset?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141121	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141122	Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen has much more experience in care for the elderly than I have. But you can imagine older people, for example. is bedridden but does not need a wheelchair to enter the bathroom. I think you can imagine. And that means that it may be older people who come home from a hospital after having been treated, which is now bedridden and where there is no expectation that the bedridden condition will cease. I guess I don't need wheelchair space. But that is just my reflection, and it is in recognition that Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen has much more sense of care for the elderly than I do. But it comes because the municipalities have asked for this opportunity to be able to build older homes more flexibly. And the government trusts that municipalities can assess the need for elderly housing and their accessibility to the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141232	One is almost tempted to suggest that it should be an elderly rapporteur who will be the Minister for Housing next time, because it is quite true that I think I have more understanding of care for the elderly than the Minister for Housing has. But I can inform the Minister of Housing that most people, no matter how bad they are, need to be able to go to the bathroom for example or need to be able to get out of the home. Even if they may be bedridden when they come home, they sometimes have to bathe or use the bathroom. It would require either some housing changes or that the citizen should be moved • Who should pay the expenses?
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141307	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141308	But if the municipalities have decided to build too few elderly homes, which are accessible to the disabled, so that they have underestimated the need for accessible elderly housing, then it will be up to the municipalities to pay to correct the miscalculation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141334	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141354	The debate is open, and the first rapporteur to be welcomed is Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141413	Thank you for that, President. The background to this bill is an EU directive aimed at promoting the broad development of the market for alternative fuels and minimising dependence on oil and thus also reducing the environmental impact of transport. The bill authorises the Minister to lay down administrative rules on the implementation or application of international conventions and EU rules on infrastructure for alternative fuels. This is not only true in relation to the specific EU directive, which has led to this draft law, but also in relation to new EU rules and standards which may come in the future within the scope of the law, i.e.. publicly available charging stations, publicly available service stations, as well as land-to-sea power supply refueling facilities. However, the draft law's observations show that it is not any type of new EU regulation within this scope that the Minister will lay down rules on administrative matters. The aim of the law is that it is EU rules of a more technical nature that the Minister can implement through announcements. Thus, the observations of the draft law state that acts which bear not insignificant political weight will be submitted to the Folketing. Basically, we think that it makes a great deal of sense to have some EU rules and standards in this area. We also think that a Danish framework law in this area makes sense, as is being proposed here. We wonder a little bit about the fact that the wording of the legislative proposal has changed somewhat from the draft that was sent in consultation to what is being presented now, without really having so much to do with the consultation responses. In the legislative proposal submitted for consultation, it was not as clear as it is now that the legislative proposal is not just about the specifically mentioned EU directive, but also future EU regulation of a more technical nature. Nor was there any mention in the consultation version of the draft law of the possibility of laying down administrative rules on penalties and fines, which has now been included. In other words, there are a few elements in this draft law which the consultation parties have been unable to deal with because they were not so clear from the draft that was sent in consultation. Nevertheless, we believe that what is now in place is sensible. We think it might be worth considering in committee whether some kind of evaluation of this new framework law should be included in the draft law after a few years have elapsed. An evaluation could, for example, be carried out. pick up how much and how often new regulation has been introduced under this law, how much has happened through announcements and how much of what has been implemented through legislation in the Danish Parliament and perhaps also something about how this balance has been made between what has a technical character and when something such as that stated in the bill is not insignificant political weight. However, the consideration of whether we should have such an evaluation into the legislative proposal can be taken together in committee work. Basically, as I said, we are positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141719	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141727	Thank you. The bill gives a number of authorisations to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, and also creates the necessary legal basis for various implementations in order to comply with Denmark's EU and international obligations. Since these are a large number of powers, I have a wish from our usual rapporteur, Mr. Kim Christiansen, that the rules will be submitted to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee before entry into force. It is just a wish and so the Minister can choose to comply with it or not. Overall, I assume that everyone is interested in reducing the use of petrol and diesel, which is why we think it makes sense to lay down a number of rules for the deployment of alternative propellant infrastructure. The Danish People's Party therefore looks forward to the continued committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141814	Short and clear. Thank you so much. The next rapporteur is Mrs Britt Baker from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141828	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing today aims to create the legal basis for implementing an EU directive so that Denmark complies with EU obligations. The EU directive aims to establish and harmonise the development of infrastructure for alternative fuels in the EU. The Directive deals, inter alia, with: chargingstands and refueling facilities for alternative propellants for both electric and gas vehicles. The development that we see taking place in the use of green solutions for cars is important. In the Left, we focus on making use of green solutions for infrastructure in the future. We are concerned with technology-neutral solutions that promote green transport, so green conversion is technology-neutral solutions that apply to both hydrogen, biogas and electricity. That is why we also support the legislative proposal, which can authorise the implementation of the EU directive, which helps to promote the infrastructure of several types of alternative propellants. The Left supports the bill. And I have to say on behalf of the Liberal Alliance that they also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141945	Thank you. The next one is sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027141956	The draft law is intended to implement parts of the so-called AFI Directive, which lays down a number of minimum requirements for EU Member States for building an infrastructure for alternative transport drivers. We in the Enhedslisten think this is important, and it is also important in Denmark, although the government does nothing to promote alternative propellants. This bill then implements the directive's provisions for charging stations for electric vehicles, for filling stations for hydrogen and various types of gas, including both natural gas and biogas, as well as for the supply of electricity from land to ships. So far, as well as desirable developments, the directive and this legislative proposal want to support, although I think that natural gas as a fossil fuel does not fully meet the intentions of the directive, just as we believe that the use of biogas can be problematized if it is not so-called second generation biofuels. We have a few critical comments on the proposal. The draft law covers Articles 2 and 4 to 6 of the directive. According to the comments, this should be the current one. the only known EU legal regulation in this area, but another mention is made of Article 7 laying down detailed rules on the requirement for user information. Why is this Article 7 not covered by the implementation that is taking place with this bill? Nor are we comfortable with the fact that the draft law does not give effect to the authority given to the Minister to lay down rules on supervision and control, to issue injunctions and to provide for penalties for infringements of the provisions laid down by that law. It seems naive if one imagined that there would be no difficulty whatsoever in complying with the rules. Rules will only be implemented in these areas if this proves necessary. But how do we see it if we do not exercise supervision and control? The Minister must be able to answer that question. Trust is really good, but control and sanctions in the back pocket are now a very good remedy for the more sluggish in a given profession. The AFI Directive is to be implemented on an ongoing basis up to 2025 and can be implemented under this law by means of authorisation provisions for the Minister, and although the comments on the draft law state that it is only a question of implementing technical, administrative and updating measures as a result of technological developments, it is, however, very widespread application of the authorisation provisions that is being proposed. The authorisation also applies every time the EU legal regulation in this area develops beyond the framework of the AFI directive. Add to that that the European Commission can, after all, implement the AFI Directive by means of delegated acts and certainly also acts that go beyond the framework of the AFI Directive. So we are about to be where Enhedslisten will describe it as on rocking ground and where there is a lack of democratic control and influence over the law that the Folketing is about to adopt. The last point that has been made is that on 25 October a letter of orientation was distributed, informing the Committee on Transport that the European Commission has sent a reasoned opinion on the AFI Directive. The opinion itself is not included, so I would like the Minister, when he has the floor, to reveal what the Commission's opinion says. It could of course be important for the consideration of this bill. The unitary list will so far await its position on the draft law until we have received an answer to a number of questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142344	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. There are no more brief comments at The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142357	Thank you very much. The bill implements an EU directive on infrastructure rules for the transmission of alternative propellants, and the Minister is empowered to implement the directive, and it empowers the Minister to monitor and monitor and impose fines in the event of a breach of the rules. We're glad there's gonna be a framework law. We are also a little puzzled by the breadth of the alternative fuels, but the fact that there is a framework law which allows the Minister to act agile on things in the future is fundamentally positive. Of course, we have the small concern that means that we will follow the Minister's action in this area closely, and I think that we will do so in committee at all to see whether things are being updated and implemented rapidly. However, as a starting point, we support the bill and expect that the confidence shown to the Minister will be sustained and foresight.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142511	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Amstrup, and welcome to Marlene Borst Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142521	Radical Left's vision is that all fossil fuels have to get out of our transport sector the sooner, the better. The bill here does not lead to more renewable energy in the transport sector directly, but creates the framework for it. The European Union has decided to create an internal market for alternative and climate-friendly fuels for our cars, ferries, aircraft, buses and so on, and the Radical Left is very positive about this initiative. The bill here authorizes the Ministry to implement the laws adopted in the EU in this context. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142605	Thank you for that and welcome to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142610	This is a legislative proposal which provides for the implementation of EU legislation on minimum requirements for alternative fuel infrastructure, such as: charging stations for electric cars. As Denmark is unfortunately lagging behind when it comes to the green transition and the transition to electric cars, the SF welcomes the proposal. A diesel car will emit twice as much CO2 infrastructure in 2030, of course. The draft law also provides for a new main law to act as a framework law for the implementation of internationally required legislation on infrastructure for alternative fuels. Given that developments in the area of renewable energy and alternative fuels are currently moving rapidly, we must, of course, ensure the necessary regulation so that we keep up with developments. The SF may support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142721	Thank you very much to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. And then the trip has come to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing, as I do not see rapporteurs in the Chamber who wish to speak. So we warmly welcome him.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027142740	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their positive comments. The legislative proposal we are discussing today stems from an EU directive of 2014, which deals with infrastructure for alternative fuels. The infrastructure for alternative propellants includes, inter alia: chargingstands and refueling facilities for electric and gas vehicles. The EU directive has, among other things: The aim is to promote alternative propellants such as: electricity, and to support the creation of a coherent network of infrastructure for alternative fuels in the EU. This is done by establishing common technical standards for inter alia: publicly available charging stations for electric cars. This provides security and greater scope for other electric drivers, as they can also load their electric cars in other EU countries. The draft law proposes that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing be authorised to lay down rules on the implementation or application of international conventions and EU rules on infrastructure for the transmission of alternative fuels. The authorisation provisions contained in the bill give a more general authorisation to the Minister than simply to implement the EU directive. This is because the alternative means of transport are constantly being developed, and so is the charging stations or other refueling facilities on which these means of transport depend. It is therefore to be expected that new common technical standards for charging or refueling facilities for alternative means of transport will be adopted at EU level on an ongoing basis. Such new rules must be assumed to be characterised by many very technical regulations, which must be updated and updated on a regular basis to reflect developments in this area. It is against this background that it is proposed that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing be authorised to lay down detailed rules in administrative regulations. It would be inappropriate for us in this Chamber to have a debate every time there is a new technical standard for example. The mains socket on a charging station for an electric car. It is also proposed that the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing be authorised to lay down rules on supervision and control, as well as rules on the notification of enforcement orders. This is done to ensure that action can be taken in the event of non-compliance with the rules adopted pursuant to the proposed law. Finally, it proposes that rules issued under the law may provide for penalties for infringements of the rules. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the good and constructive debate. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027143019	You're welcome. There are no questions for the Minister in the first place. The Minister for Transport, Building and Housing Is there another round? ) Yes, there is at second reading. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171027143042	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Thursday, 2 November 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
