ParlaMint-DK_20170113100031	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Holger K. Nielsen (SF), Nick Hækkerup (S), Christian Juhl (EL), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Martin Lidegaard (RV): Motion for a resolution No. B 50 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the ratification of amendments to Kampala (aggression crimes)). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 51 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the refusal of asylum seekers at the border). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100111	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100135	As you know, the draft law here is about changing the remuneration and pension conditions of ministers. The draft law stems from the fact that we had a remuneration commission which looked broadly and generally at the situation of both MFs and ministers and local politicians and made a large number of recommendations. Most of them chose at least a majority in the Folketing to override, so that they only pick up on those parts of what was thought to be immediately the most sensible. This means that today we will have to deal with two legislative proposals, first L 100, which, as you know, are about ministers, and subsequently L 106, which are about the remuneration and pension of Members of Parliament. As far as L 100 is concerned, on the remuneration and pension of ministers, we can support the proposal. These are minor adjustments compared to current legislation. We note with satisfaction that future wage developments are regulated in relation to actual wage developments. We also believe that it is right and proper to reduce the minimum period for ministerial approval from 18 to 6 months. And then we also think it is right and sensible that the retirement age for ministers should be followed in the future. In addition, there are a large number of minor adjustments that we can all agree to. So social democracy can support the proposal as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100326	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100331	Thank you. It is a good thing that the Social Democratic Party can support the proposal, but I would like to know why this solution has been ended, because the history is that there is a remuneration commission which, among other things, the Social Democratic Party. thought that no matter what result they arrived at, they should be followed. It then came to the conclusion that the pension of parliamentary politicians should be normalized, and then there should be a sharp increase in wages. I think it is very good that the Social Democratic Party was out to say: no, politicians should not have a sharp increase in wages. But why has the normalisation of pension conditions been tampered with? Why is that not followed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100410	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100412	We take on board the parts of the proposal that the remuneration commission made, which we think is common sense, and that is to say, when the proposal came forward, we used our common sense and said no to the rather large wage increases that the remuneration commission had come up with, and said that we do not want to follow that, but, in addition, we take on board a large number of the elements that we consider to be very reasonable at the outset, and that means that we have this proposal today. That's the procedure, that's the method. We use common sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100443	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100447	I think that is a good thing, because the Social Democrats originally said that they would follow the remuneration commission, no matter what it came up with, whether it was common sense or not, so I am very happy about it. Why is it not common sense to lower politicians' pensions so that you get a funded pension that is roughly equivalent to well-paid people elsewhere in Denmark? Why do we want to maintain this very, very high pension that we politicians are getting today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100517	Here you go, Social Democrat rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100518	We do not see it as a very, very high pension. We take the view that the average MF is in the Folketing for a total of 7-8 years, and then the pension that one reaches there is a smaller proportion, on average, compared to what one earns through a life, and that is why we believe that the level of pension levels in relation to the current system is very reasonable. So that is our reason for it, and that is why we do not want to change compared to the pension proposal made by the remuneration commission, because the remuneration commission conditionally saw that if you changed it, you should at the same time change the salary ratio, and we did not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100601	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100604	Thank you. The elements of this, I think, can be very good. Where, in fact, I personally, but also from the point of view of the Alternative, am in doubt is what kind of problem we are really going to solve. In my optics it is among other things. transparency, that is, there must be transparency with our salaries, with the salaries of ministers, which must be transparent with our pensions and our pension conditions, which must be transparent with our post-regulation. And I would really like to hear the rapporteur's position or position on whether this increases transparency or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100649	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100651	Yes, you have to say that everything is enlightened. If you read through the proposal, there are, in fact, no nuances that are not described and covered here, and it must be said that when it comes to the salaries, pensions or pensions of members of parliament, including ministers and others, it is not because this is a subject under discussion in the public mind. I think it is reasonable to know what this is all about. Then you can say that there are all kinds of conditions in and around wage formation, which are of course elements which, if you get into them, catch little, how people are once like ministers, or how long they have a period of office, or how long they are in the Folketing or something else, and then the complexity gets higher. But it's for reading. So in this way I think it is quite simple and direct. I think that the fact that some adjustments have been made here, which means that one cannot just become a minister for 5-6 weeks and then a few 18 months after approval, is very sensible. The fact that we are doing this, that we are following the retirement age, now that we are asking all sorts of people to do it in this society, is also sensible. So I think that some very reasonable adjustments have been made here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100802	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100804	As I also said at the outset, the elements can be very good. When I talk about transparency, of course I fully agree with the rapporteur that you can read the individual elements, there is nothing hidden. There's full publicity about it. Now it was before our time, you might say, but when you asked the Pay Commission to submit its report, it was also, as I understand it, to clarify how we are actually increasing transparency, how we increase comparability with the rest of the population, for example. Why it is that we continue to have an official's pension, etc. That's the part I'm asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100839	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100841	I shall be answerable to what the ambition for transparency was, when this remuneration commission was set up, i.e. whether it was to create greater clarity so that people were happier that they could see what it was all about more simply and luminously. I don't think you'll ever get to that because pension relationships are complex. It is also remuneration, and it is working conditions at all. In other words, if you go out and look at any other contract or employment contract around society, you will also find a great deal of complexity. There will also be in relation to MFs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100920	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100923	I really think this proposal is quite sensible, but there are also some things I am wondering a little bit about. If you change that and equate the retirement age of the population with that of politicians, then I do not understand why you do not go all the way, and Mrs Pernille Skipper also asked why you do not make this pension-based or savings-based. All I have to say is that was what the rapporteur said that the reason why they did not do so was that the Commission's recommendation to raise wages was not taken into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100952	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113100954	That's right. After all, the Commission looked at this in a context and said that, if we are to reduce at some point in relation to the pension that somebody earns as a member of the Folketing or as a minister, we must instead increase the wage ratio considerably. As we then choose to ignore the fact that we are increasing the wage ratio considerably, we are not changing the pension situation either. That's the logic of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101016	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101018	I don't know if that's logic. Well, it seems like we're gonna have it. The most reasonable thing, I think, is that we will have our pensions equal to the pensions of the population and then we will have an independent discussion about wages. So the rapporteur does not think that it would have made more sense to establish equal treatment for our pensions so that we have exactly the same model as the population and that, in addition, we could have had a discussion on pay? I think it seems a little strange that one should depend on the other. What does the pension have to do with our salary?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101052	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101053	I do not think that the rapporteur from the SF would come a long way in collective bargaining, and when one had to sit and negotiate with people's working conditions, if he looked at matters with such logic. Actually, things are connected. Exactly pension and wage conditions are linked, even when you open any agreement. So I would like to introduce that logic to the SF rapporteur if you have not heard of it before. For that is at least the logic behind what the remuneration commission did, and I think it does, in fact, when, moreover, we are negotiating on the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101122	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101141	Thank you, President. L 100 on proposals for the remuneration and pension of ministers stems from the agreement previously made by the Left, the Social Democratic Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party and the Radical Left. The Danish People's Party is not part of this agreement, but let me put it this way that it consists of quite a few elements, and there are both some that we think are really sensible and that are going in the right direction, and also some that we are a little bit sorry about. But let's start with the positive. I think it is very positive that this calls for the retirement age of ministers to follow the general retirement age. I think that is a very good step in a direction in which, if not going all the way, then at least try to normalize some conditions for the ministers. It's really, really positive. It is also good that something is being done in relation to the post-regulation rules, which we have had a lot of debate on in the media over the last few years because of a few quite unreasonable cases for, I think, a lot of people. There, too, we go some way along the road, and I think that is very sensible. And that part of it will be supported by us as well. There is also something that we are not so happy about. I think it is a pity that the 5-percent reduction that has been made by the Minister's Secretary-General is going to run out in 2019. I think that's a bad thing to say in good Jutland. We think it was commendable when, a few years ago, the government made sure that the ministers went down a little bit in wages, to show some willingness, to the fact that there is a shortage in this society, that there are scarce resources available. It sent a very good signal, and we took the hat off for that time, and we thought it was nice. That's why I think it's too bad that you now see that it runs out and that you stop it in 2019. After all, the overall agreement reached between the parties also means a proper increase in the salary of mayors and regional presidents. We are not really very happy about that part of the agreement, because we think they make enough money. We do not think there is a need to raise the salaries of politicians in general, and we have actually been quite happy with the rate. And if you had to change that rate, it wasn't in the upward direction... no doubt about it... it was rather the opposite way. In general terms, there is a very positive, but also a negative, point in the proposal, but we look forward to discussing it further, and can of course welcome the fact that the retirement age is moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101426	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Then it's mr. Søren Gade, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101439	As has already been explained, it is a follow-up to one of the recommendations of the Pay Commission that we are discussing here today, and this is the follow-up to the vote agreement reached between the Social Democracy, Liberal Alliance, Radical and Conservative back in 2006. Let me say this straight away: we naturally support the proposal. We think it is good and logical that ministerial regulations should be regulated in line with general wage developments. We believe that this is entirely in line not only with the spirit of the people, but also with our own objectives that the Danes should work longer, that the retirement age for ministers now follows the age of retirement. We certainly also believe that it is reasonable to reduce the post-clearance payment from a minimum of 18 months to 6 months now. The draft law provides for normalisation in relation to the normal labour market, and we in the Left welcome that, so we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101539	Thank you. Someone just pulled in. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101545	Thank you, President. That was a surprisingly short speech, sorry. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left that a number of things are said, I noted, fair and regular. I think that is two important concepts to stick to when we talk about politicians' pay and pensions, including those of ministers. One of the recommendations made by the Salaries Commission was that ministers' pensions should also be normalised and that it would be more reasonable, that is to say, that a contribution-financed pension could be obtained. This means paying into a pension scheme completely like everyone else, unlike today, when ministers get a lifelong pension and do not think about it: how many years is this going to last, how long do I live, how long is it going to last? That extra security I think is worth gold if you ask a lot of people. Why do ministers have to have the extra, special, good pension that everyone outside these walls doesn't have?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101657	Let me start by stating that my starting point is quite different from that of Mrs Pernille Skipper. I do not think that parliamentary politicians are paid too much; I do not think ministers are paid too much. I have the same take on this as the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, I think of it as a whole; there is a part of the wage, and there is a part of the pension. The remuneration commission suggested that the salary should rise and the pension should be reduced. We have said no to the increase in wages, and we maintain the pension. We normalize the limit on when it can be paid, i.e. when you become a pensioner. I would also like to refer to what Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen said that the average time for a parliament politician is 8 years here in the Folketing. And it is not a matter of getting hundreds of thousands of crowns after you have been in the Folketing for 8 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101745	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101746	No, but what you get, even if you're only sitting here for eight years, is a lifelong pension. It is something quite, very special, but it is not the only pension that former members of parliament receive; they have also had another job on top of it. All I have to understand is that if the Left and also the Social Democratic Party believe that the salary and the pension are undoubtedly linked, so much so that we do not want to reduce the pension if we do not also have a gigantic increase in wages, where does the rose come in here? Then it is quite the same whether you had agreed to an increase in wages and then a lower pension. What is summa summarum is that you don't want to normalize some conditions unless you get a wage increase, and then it got so little too unpopular, and then you had to say no to the wage increase, but then you get stuck in this special pension scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101844	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101845	I will try again: my starting point is quite different from that of Mrs Pernille Skippers, I would like to repeat it. I do not think that parliamentary politicians are paid too much; I do not think ministers are paid too much. What we are ensuring here is that the retirement age of ministers is now set in line with the citizens of Denmark's retirement age, that it is regulated, just as it does on the labour market in general, that the post-employment rate is a deterioration compared to what it is today, because one can argue that it has been too positive. So I see it as an overall package, and I am willing to target both ministerial salaries and the salaries of parliamentary politicians. I could see from an estimate that in the municipalities alone more than 300 are paid more than the ministers do in the Folketing. So I just have to say quietly: I do not believe that ministers in Denmark are overpaid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101932	Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113101937	Thank you. Well, it is a good thing that the rapporteur can stand up for it. A few years ago, the same rapporteur was also able to measure up to the rules we had in the area of pensions. Fortunately, however, we are seeing a slippage because some people have called out and shouted, and that is why we are getting this change that we are dealing with today. I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that even with the changes we are discussing today and hopefully adopting, it will still be the case that the people, the ministers who stood in the chair to extend the Danes' retirement age • Mrs Margrethe Vestager, Mr. Morten Østergaard, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen and many of the others still away themselves will be able to retire long before the ordinary Dane, because these changes do not seem backwards, one only forwards. The people who made that decision and intervened in thousands, yes, millions of Danes' retirement age, can still look forward to a former retirement for themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102039-2	I became a minister in 2004 and, of course, I cannot get a ministerial pension until I become a pensioner. I think I can get part of it when I'm 60. Those who were ministers before Anders Fogh Rasmussen's reign, i.e. in the Poul Schlüter era and Poul Nyrup Rasmussen period, have been retired since they left as ministers. That was the agreement that was then. It is true that it will not be regulated, because it was the agreement of the ministers who were then. And it's true that they've been retiring since the king of diamonds was a kid. None of them became ministers during Anders Fogh Rasmussen's reign, nor have they been given them during the reign of Helle Thorning-Schmidt. There you get after the agreement that lay at that time and there will be some ministers who will get part of the pension when they are 60, when they are 63, and then now when they are 67.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102127	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102128	Thank you. That is what I wanted to confirm before we over-reject this agreement, namely that a large number of the ministers, a large number of the prominent politicians in Denmark, who have taken a hard step into the retirement age of the Danes, have still maintained a retirement age for themselves, where they can go on well-paid retirement at the age of 60 or at the age of 62. So it's back after today's, I hope, gratifying attitude to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102203	Here you go, sir. Søren Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102204	I see that as a comment rather than a question, because I cannot do much about it. I mean, I'm not getting a pension until I'm retired. There are ministers who were on a scheme that made you get a ministerial pension from the moment you left. There are people who have been receiving a ministerial pension since they were 40 years old, but that has not been possible in recent times. Now we are normalising it so that for those who are ministers today it is the contribution that has to be saved, for example. Our Minister of Finance Kristian Jensen will be paid after 1 April 2017 when Mr. Kristian Jensen reaches the age when others also get their pension. Then it is true that the pension, as Mr. Kristian Jensen saves until the end of March 2017, another, what to say, has the date of entry into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102253	Sir. Kristian Jensen is Finance Minister Yes, that's right). But it may be a little diffuse in this discussion, I recognise whether to say the name or the title of the minister. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102305	I just need to get this straight. As I understand it, all the ministers who sat under the former government and all the ministers who sit now and until 1 April 2017 will be able to obtain all the pension they have earned in the past. They will be able to retire earlier in terms of that part than any other person in this country. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102332	It is quite true that the agreement that ministers have now makes their pension payment time a different one from the money they save after 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102345	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102346	How can it ever be reasonable that when we change our own pension conditions in here, it only applies in the future? So, all those who have earned a pension can get it paid earlier than all other Danes, because that is only for the future. But when we change the Danes' pension situation, that is the case immediately. If we change the Danes' pension situation now, is that true of all Danes? Then we'll raise their retirement age. Is this not really what the government is proposing? Where is reasonableness in that difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102417	But that is the way in which the agreements that have been concluded are respected. It's like in the labour market. I hope, then, that the rapporteur from the Socialist People's Party believes that the agreements that have been reached should be respected. Now we are changing the basis of the agreement, and that is why you will get your pension paid in the future when you are 67 years old, and that is the money saved after 1 April 2017. That is what the draft law says, and that is what I have explained. I think it is quite reasonable that we should have a pensionable age in the future similar to that of Mr Kellett-Bowman. and Mrs. Denmark has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102450	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102452	Thank you. As I also said to the Social Democrat rapporteur, I think there are a great many positive elements in this. What I really want to ask is how we can ensure that we have transparency in relation to the rest of the population. As I see it now, and I can also hear from the questions that the other rapporteurs are raising, there are, of course, questions about the amount of pension and when you can retire, and the amount of pay and all that. But one of the things I think the people are asking for is that there is transparency, that it is immediately understandable and that we in here, who have been elected, have the same conditions as the rest of the population. What does the rapporteur of the Left think about this in relation to the legislative proposal that lies here? Does it increase transparency in relation to what kind of conditions we are paid in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102542	Thank you. Yeah, I think it certainly does. As Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen said that politicians' wages and pensions are probably one of the most controversial and the most written things. And, as I have also said, I am happy to be on target for the salaries of both Members of Parliament and Ministers. This is, after all, a normalisation in relation to what it is like in the labour market in general. We come up to the retirement age that most Danes find themselves at. We are reducing the amnesty so that one cannot be a minister for 14 days and then get a minister's salary for 18 months afterwards. I think that these are reasonable changes, and they are also some of the changes that have been justified by the Danes to have them introduced. And that is what we are doing here today. I have no illusions that we will ever agree on what politicians' salaries should be, because as long as there is a politician who gets $1, some people will think they are getting too much. But I just have to say quietly that one can also have a system in which it becomes so that only extremely rich people want to enter politics because others either do not find it attractive or cannot afford to be there. I think it should be balanced. It should not be money that drives people into politics. Nor should it be money that keeps people from going into politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102650	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102652	But I am in complete agreement with that and therefore I did not ask for wage levels and so on. What I was asking was transparency. For example: There's no way, when we're talking about after-treatment, there's a full set-off. It's there if you're hired after an employee agreement. Then, as a starting point, there is full set-off unless, when you are dismissed, you negotiate something else after the first 6 months. That's the kind of thing I think about. Why don't we get the same terms? Here's what I'm saying, we can always discuss the amount of pay and something like that. I fully agree with the rapporteur that we probably never agree on that. There will always be some Danes who, as the rapporteur says, believe that we should only have DKK 1, and other Danes who think that we should have much more than we get today. But it is the transparency to which I am referring that we have the same framework and follow the same rules as are applied in the rest of the labour market, for example. in relation to set-off, and in relation to the fact that we could have an occupational pension and not an official's pension.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102746	Now I myself, at one point, have resigned as a minister, and there was a full set-off in the subsequent recommendation I received. So when I got a job afterwards with a salary that was above my ministerial salary, my aftermath stopped immediately. So I do not know where the rapporteur is from, that there should be no set-off. There is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102804	Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102807	As far as I know, there is no set-off in the first year for ministers, but we can check that out. I understand that the rapporteur does not think it would be appropriate to change the rules of the ministers and former ministers who, like them, had the expectation that they could retire at the age of 60, even if everyone else had to be older to retire. But when you changed the after-wage, you changed it for all people in Denmark, even if people had saved up for the after-wage for years. So when it comes to the ordinary Dane, you seem to think it's fair enough like changing the rules backwards. When this bill is implemented, it will continue to be the case that there are ministers and former ministers, including Mr. Søren Gade, who can retire earlier than anyone else. A simple question: is that fair, is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102905	First of all, I would like to say that this was the agreement that was when I entered the Folketing. The agreement that was when I entered the Folketing, and when I became a minister, was that one got a pension and it was then paid out at a given time. Now the agreement is being changed so that you now have to be 67 years in relation to the money you earn after 1 April. It is a little surprising for me to hear Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen attack that particular point. I have not heard Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen mention anything about all those colleagues who have been receiving a ministerial pension for 20 years, despite the fact that they are still on the labour market. However, this was a point that could be discussed. But to attack an agreement that we have become what to say is employed by the citizens, and then to say that it should be quite awful to follow it, I have very, very difficult to understand, I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102950	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113102952	But I do not ask what the rules were like, because it is quite true that when Mr. Søren Gade became minister, was it so that Mr. Søren Gade could start receiving a pension at the age of 60, and that is earlier than any other person in Denmark. Those were the rules. So I'm not talking about it being illegal or something. I'm just asking, does Mr. Søren Gade, it's fair that, for example, Mr. Søren Gade and all kinds of other ministers and former ministers continue to retire earlier than other Danes, even when this bill is being implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103031	I have to say to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen that I have no illusion that I can retire at 60 years of age, so you have to familiarize yourself with the amount I will receive at 60 years of age. But I think it is quite fair that the agreement I had at the time I became a minister is being fulfilled. I also think it is quite fair that we decide today that ministers will be paid their pension in the future when they reach the retirement age for which the Danes have been set to work. So I have no problem with the fact that I am now helping to adopt a new agreement for the ministers who are in the Folketing today or who will be elected after 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and then it is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103128	I think it will be very, very difficult to determine how many hours Enhedslisten's MFs and employees have spent on normalising or at least eliminating the worst injustices in the wage and pension conditions of members of parliament and ministers. And that's for good reason. In total, far too long politicians have been able to score high wages and save pensions, which are much, much higher than ordinary Danes. And while one party after another has not only proposed, but also implemented, that you have to work even longer also all the people who lift bricks and children and become worn out much, much faster than you do by sitting on the soft chairs in here • they have been able to retire themselves at the age of 60. While the early retirement has been scrapped and the unemployment allowance halved, and the ceiling on cash benefits has sent sick and unemployed people into poverty, after a very few months of work ministers have been able to secure full pay for two years, and this is without being sent to work tests or being available for the labour market. While sick people who are bedridden have been on work tests, politicians have been able to raise both a copy from the previous job as a full-time politician and the salary from the new job. So today we are dealing with a proposal that is moving a little, and I think a little, about some of the most obvious absurdities that are for ministers. We really appreciate that in the Enhedslisten. We have been waiting for and fighting for too much, for a very long time. This shows that it is useful, and it shows that, although there is a great deal of defence for the affairs of ministers, it can change if you fight long enough. There are two problems with this bill, which I would like to highlight in particular, and these are some things that are conspicuous by their absence. One is that the ministers who sit today and have earned a pension in the run-up to the adoption of this bill will still be able to retire at the age of 60 or 62. They will still be able to go away from long before ordinary Danes, and so nothing touches their relationship. Even if it is the case that every time changes in early retirement or retirement age are adopted in here, that applies also to all the people who have gone and planned after, for example. To go on early retirement. The second is that there are still far, far better conditions for ministers than for all other Danes. After all, for the remuneration commission which had otherwise been pushed in front of it came up with a proposal which said that ministers should have an enormous increase in salaries, and so should members of parliament, in return for the normalisation of pension schemes. The authors of the motion for a resolution, in other words the government and the other parties to the agreement, did not really think we could get away with that. That's why the pay increases have been scrapped. There is, however, the normalisation of pension conditions that could have been achieved. Members of Parliament are now earning a lifelong pension, so it is safe and pleasant to know that you should not think about whether the pension can last for many years. It is a special security that we have in here and that we are not prepared to do away with. That is why it is a particularly high and very, very favourable pension that ministers will continue to have. At the same time, ministers will also continue to have a de facto 5% increase in wages, because they will not continue the downward adjustment that has taken place. In other words, there are a whole lot of things on which we would like to table amendments in relation to this bill. We hope that this will be supported, and we also hope that we can get some concrete answers to the specific amendments. In the end, of course, it is a proposal that is the result of a lot of years of work from really, very many people who have tried to push this through, and it is only a step in the right direction. Politicians should not sit in such an ivory tower and be shielded from ordinary people, and they should in fact also have some conditions that make you reasonably understand what it means to have a budget to hang together, i.e. things that all other people are dealing with. So this is a step in the right direction, but I would also like to say that it will not be hard to be a minister in the future. On the contrary, there is a great deal that we still need to make up for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103641	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, Social Democrat, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103645	Thanks for the speech. I understand that Enhedslisten has always worked hard to change the wage and salary and pension conditions for MFs and ministers in the downward direction. Then I thought maybe I could help the Enhedslisten a little more. For we can be helpful in making an amendment to both this and the next legislative proposal, so that an option is given in relation to the amount of remuneration you want. So I want to hear Enhedslisten, if you wouldn't want to be part of it. And then the rest of us could get a salary and be accountable to it, and then we could put the remuneration for Enhedslisten's members down to a different level. I wonder if Enhedslisten could tell us what level you would like. Because then we can help with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103738	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103739	Well, I'll enlighten you. Because it is de facto that you can have that option. That's why we have chosen in the Enhedslisten that we get a significantly smaller salary than all other members of parliament in here. We pay what we call a quota, a party tax, to our party, and then we receive what is equivalent to an average metal worker's salary in Copenhagen, plus a cost supplement. So I think that is a reasonable level, and it might be that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen can live for it when I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103820	Here you go, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103821	But why should the Folketing and the poor taxpayers finance Enhedslisten's employees? Well, we can just make sure that the wage level is reduced to something less and more reasonable. But that means that the guideline must be the pay and working conditions of a metal worker, and I would like to help with that, and then Enhedslisten can just cross in. I don't care what internal rules you have in order to get more party officials. But we can make sure that the wage is reduced just as far as we think is reasonable. Because then you have to raise your party support somewhere else. So we would very much like to help, and in this way we will deal with the problem so that Enhedslisten can have their pay and can run around talking about those things, and we others can then be responsible for ours.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103906	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113103907	Now it is the case that I have a little doubt about what it is, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen is going after him. If it is to withdraw some more money back to the Treasury because he believes that the money should not go to Enhedslisten's party tax, then that is a discussion. De facto, we are actually getting a lower salary, and we are getting that because we think it is important that members of parliament live a life that is just about in line with ordinary people's lives, and I am not going to complain because it is still a very high salary we get. This means that you can reasonably understand what other people are living in, and then it becomes a little more difficult just to sit and say that people who are on the daily allowance are just statistics and that this is how it is when you lose your daily allowance; then it becomes a little harder to abolish the early retirement pension and raise the retirement age for everyone else. That is why we think this should be the case, and that is why we live by it; it is rules that are laid down in our party. You know that when you run for Enhedslisten, that's the way it is. I think that has something to do with what kind of people we get into.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104012	Thank you. And no one else has any comments. Then it's mr. Leif Mikkelsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104035	Thank you. I think it's been considered what we're discussing today. It is always difficult to discuss the terms of members of parliament and now the conditions of ministers here, because there is always some jantelovs talk about it. I am not a minister, I have not been a minister, and I can therefore say that what I have been able to see is that ministers have a very hard working life, which is usually very high in terms of what people can organise themselves in most cases. It is also the case that, in a number of contexts, ministers must abandon the interface with the life they normally form part of on the day they become ministers. There are rules for that. So I think it can be said that it is not unreasonable that there may be some special circumstances that take account of that situation. And I can then allow myself to say so without being attacked for any personal gain. That is why I would like to say that we support this bill and that, moreover, we believe that it is also a normalisation that gives greater transparency and understanding of the conditions that you have as a minister and the situation that you are in the day when you then stop as a minister, where you may have just had to let go of a number of points of contact in this society that could justify the pension you receive. There could be several reasons for the work done by the Service Commission's report, and there is a vote agreement that I do not need to review here, but I would just like to point out that this provides more transparency, and we are satisfied with that. So we agree that this bill is fair. We can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104230	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104235	I would like to know how high the Liberal Alliance thinks politicians' salaries should rise. Because, as I remember, the Liberal Alliance thought it was a good idea to increase the salary proposed by the remuneration commission and to regulate and normalise pension conditions and make wage increases as proposed by the Commission. That's how I remember the views of the Liberal Alliance. How much does the Liberal Alliance think the salaries of politicians should be up?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104309	Now, of course, we have to discuss the terms of the members of parliament in connection with the next draft law, which deals with the retirement of ministers. If we are to stick to the matter at all, then it is the retirement of ministers that we are talking about now, and I shall refer to that. However, I would like to discuss the salaries of Members of Parliament following on from this, and we in the Liberal Alliance are fully aware that this is a special task and that we have a duty to ensure conditions that make all sections of society want to go in and participate in democratic work. So it is quite true that we have pointed out that we could easily have helped to have followed more closely the recommendations of the Pay Commission, which has not been followed here; Mrs Pernille Skipper is quite right about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104349	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104351	I'm sorry, I'm the one saying the wrong thing. But the remuneration commission is also proposing a fairly significant increase in the salary of ministers from 6%, and I think that is 11%. as far as the Prime Minister is concerned, as I remember, right? Would that be a reasonable level of pay? In other words, could it attract the people who the Liberal Alliance thinks are getting away from politics today simply because they think that wages are too low for them to be involved in politics? I understand that is the reasoning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104422	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104423	We do not really know whether it would attract others, but it can be seen that elected representatives often sit with high-ranking officials on the basis of the pay system we have and, moreover, negotiate with people, lobbyists and so on, who have a significantly higher income than the ministers or members of parliament involved. We can see that in the real world, and the question is how reasonable it is. And in that light, we do not want to enforce the jante law and say that it is really bad that elected representatives get a good and decent payment for the many hours at all sorts of warped times they use and that also applies to ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104500	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104504	Thank you. I just want to hear whether the rapporteur can confirm two things: firstly, that the rapporteur voted to raise the retirement age of Danes and abolish the early retirement age, as much as it has now been abolished; and secondly, that the rapporteur himself can retire, that is to say that the pension begins to roll into the rapporteur's account, from the age of 60, that is, long before all the Danes from whom the rapporteur himself has helped to steal some of the pension years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104536	Now the rapporteur will be very difficult on the day of my 60th birthday, because it is, in fact, becoming a long time ago. So I have passed that day and I have shown the way of working much longer than you have to, so I fully follow my party's policy that we have to work for a long time to contribute to this society. That day is well exceeded, so I have quite voluntarily ignored all possible pensions, so if you are going to talk about my personal circumstances, it is very atypical in relation to what is being asked. However, it is quite true that we have voted in favour of the adjustments that have been made in this area of post-retirement pay, which we believe should be completely gone. This is something quite different and this is in relation to retirement age, and there we are very pleased that ministers will have to follow the retirement age in the future. We agree with the criticism that has been made that some of the conditions that have been before were strange.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104625	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104627	You've agreed because we've been fighting for this for decades, and it hasn't been possible to move on to it. But that's a good thing. And congratulations, by the way, on continuing to work. It's really nice that you have a job where you can keep doing that. But may I not just ask the rapporteur to confirm that the rapporteur's current party chairman, Mr. Anders Samuelsen, who has been one of those who was in charge of stealing pension years from the Danes, can retire himself at the age of 60.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104658	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Anders Samuelsen will follow the rules that are and, if necessary, the rules that we adopt in this Parliament... I think he has respect for the rules... and that's what we're doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104710	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104715	Thank you. I just want to hear: why is it that politicians, particularly ministers, should be able to earn lifelong pensions so much faster than all other people on the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104728	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104730	Yeah, it's always debatable. I have tried to justify this by saying that I actually believe that ministers have a form of work, a period of work which says that you deserve some conditions, in the light of the fact that you have to give up many points of contact on the day you become a minister. I have noted from what I have seen, and it is ministers from all kinds of parties, that it is not a rest home, that it is not a period in which you almost decide your calendar and so on. So it is actually quite reasonable that proper conditions have been signalled, even on the day of retirement, especially in the light of this, I would like to stress that many links have had to be broken off with one's normal way of life on the day one becomes a minister. There are a number of rules that I assume the rapporteur knows on the day it happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104820	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104822	In fact, I believe that this is how I have read it at least that a minister can earn a lifelong pension, equivalent to that of a worker, of eight years, i.e. eight years of ministerial work is equivalent to that of, for example, a worker. a carpenter or a earth and concrete worker or a factory worker shall work his life. I agree that ministerial work is hard and that it is also an isolated job, but is it so hard that, in eight years' time, you have to be able to earn the same pension as an ordinary worker does in a lifetime?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104853	We are in favour of this, and we note that this is, in fact, a deterioration because you can only retire on the day you reach retirement age. So we are heading in the right direction from the point of view of the questioner, I assume. So I assume that before long we will have to hear some outbursts of joy from the questioner that this is really good and you are backing it up completely, and I assume that we can hear from the party that you end up supporting the bill or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104922	That's it. Then there is no further comment to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen. Then it is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113104941	Thank you. Yeah, we're standing here on the platform, treating L 100, among other things. Council of Ministers' pension. What I would like to focus on at the outset is what kind of problem we would like to solve. The problem we want to solve in my optics is that there must be transparency so that the private Dane can understand what kind of remuneration is being paid by both MPs and ministers. That is really what matters. That is why it was launched before the Alternative came to the Parliament of Parliament a commission work with a Service Commission, which was asked to look at everything, so that we really should not have this discussion about what politicians' salaries should be, how much they should have in retirement, etc. They were asked to come up with a comprehensive package containing all the elements, including salaries, pensions, reimbursements, tax-free allowances, etc. etc. In fact, in our optics, the Pay Commission came up with a package that made up the fact that our salaries are opaque and old-fashioned structured, for example. both ministers and members of parliament have civil servants' pensions and we have tax-free allowances. I also think that what was in the Salaries Commission was that the members of the parties who were at that time had asked the Salaries Commission to try to look at it overall so that we ourselves would not stand and, you might say, pick out elements and discuss them. So if it had been up to us today, we would have been working together on the whole package from the Pay Commission, with one exception. In relation to set-off, the Salaries Commission proposes that there should be set-off if you went out and took a political position, where we say that we think there should be set-off, no matter what job you go out and take afterward, just as it is in the ordinary labour market. As I understand it, today's revenue is more than DKK 135,930. offset in the after-the-counter layer. And then I heard the rapporteur from the Left say that the remuneration for ministers is set off from day one. That is not the understanding I have, but it is possible that I am the one who is wrong. On the one hand, we think that this bill, which is in place, brings a number of improvements. It is a good thing that the minimum level of post-mortem inspection should be reduced to 6 months. We do not understand that the ceiling for ministers is yes, I apologise, it will come later, but it is positive that in future the salaries of politicians will follow the wage trend in the public sector. In particular, I think it is positive and I think we should bear this in mind that in future the retirement age of politicians will follow the retirement age. I really think that is one of the things that has been difficult to understand in the surrounding world, namely why our retirement age should be different. I think it is problematic that we should not move to an occupational pension, because that would be in line with the rest of the labour market. I find it problematic that the draft law here does not provide for the abolition of the tax-free supplement and, overall, I think that it is problematic that this will not increase transparency. However, as I have said, there are a great many good elements in it, and we can support the individual elements in the alternative, but I am still unsure of how we stand on the legislative proposal because we do not think it overall makes up for increasing transparency. And that's what I think is the crucial problem. Here we had a unique chance now to say: Now we are making a single package. We're gonna have this discussion going forward too. I fully agree with what the Social Democrat rapporteur also said: if you really get involved in it, you can find that it is all public and so on, but there is just no alignment with the rest of the labour market. This is gonna help a little bit. In particular, I think the retirement age is very good, but there is no alignment. I would have liked to have a full alignment so that we could go out and say that we have the same conditions as there are in the rest of the labour market. So I want to hear the various inputs today, and then we will do our job in committee. But again: the individual elements that lie here we think are positive. We would have liked it to have included a lot more from the remuneration commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113105453	Thank you. There are no comments, and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113105506	Thank you very much. The question of how we honour our politicians is always a difficult question, where we have to balance between two important considerations. One consideration is that of course you have to pay a salary that will enable you to attract qualified people and that is in line with the management task of being a politician in this country, regardless of whether you sit in the Folketing or in the Ministry, and which also prevents corruption, and we can say that you do not get into what you unfortunately see in some countries, i.e. such a race to the bottom, as it would be called in English, that politicians outbid each other in giving lower and lower formal wages, and then there are all kinds of legs that are less transparent and democratic. So there must be some level that is reasonable and that does not deter people from taking office. On the other hand, of course, there must also be the reasonableness in the fact that people do not want to become politicians just to get a big salary, and it must be comparable to the salaries we see in the rest of society, so that there is some kind of recognizability among the people of what politicians get. This is the difficult balance that we must try to find in here, and it makes it particularly difficult that it is about our own salaries, and therefore it is also some difficult political debates where some parties may be tempted not to dare to say openly what they really think should be the right level, while others, almost whatever we decide, fall into the temptation of such a little cheap populism, because it is always popular to say that politicians should be paid less. I think personally and fortunately my party also thinks that the level of pay we have for parliamentary politicians in this country is reasonable. This corresponds roughly to what a head of department in the public administration gets, and I think that corresponds well to the responsibility that we assume and the level that one can expect when one is a member of the highest thing. The same is true of ministerial salaries, which are high, but which are not higher than the salaries that will be found in the private sector for management tasks which are significantly less complex and with significantly fewer employees in the organisations. Then there have been some things that have shouted and screamed to heaven. One of the things that the Radical Left has been fighting for for many years is that the retirement age must of course be the same for people who are in here as for people who are out in the rest of Denmark, and that is why we are extremely happy that we have now managed to get the same retirement age for ministers and members of parliament as for the rest of the population, and we are glad that today it looks like a broad majority can gather on it, and it is certainly also time, to put it bluntly. We are also pleased that we have had some of the rules removed, which have also stuck in our eyes. So we think that we have been able to sit in a ministerial post for a few months and yet receive a long-term salary. That is also being cleared up by the bill we have here. I actually agree with Mrs Josephine Fock that this has not been the prettiest process we have had up to this bill. A Commission was set up to sit for a very, very long time and to consider it here, and its results were thus shot down in a frighteningly short time, and that is to some extent an expression of exactly what I started by saying: it is a difficult political debate. Maybe we would all have been better off if we had just breathed in and then taken it. However, there were also some thistles in what the Commission brought along and, in my opinion, the package that is now in place, both the legislative proposal that we are talking about now and what is coming shortly, is, in fact, a great step forward in relation to what we have today. This is certainly something that satisfies several radical issues, which is why we can, of course, also vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113105905	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113105914	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. The rapporteur calls it populism to address these issues. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he cannot confirm that the Enhedslisten has made on several occasions in this Parliament about the same proposal as what we are adopting today, namely that politicians' retirement age should follow the ordinary population and that the rapporteur's party has voted against on several occasions, and that it is possible to conclude that it has been important that it has been so fair that some people kept shouting, regardless of the fact that others saw it as populist, and that it has certainly helped us to get there, that a committee of experts has been set up at all. It took many years for the proposal to be put forward for the first time and for a proposal to be actually adopted today which at least takes a long step in the right direction. It's just to have order in the storytelling here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110010	Well I fully acknowledge that Enhedslisten has fought a great battle with us, by the way, against the fact that there should not be the same retirement age in here as in the rest of society. I'd be happy to give that credit. Now I don't know why Enhedslisten felt made by me saying that some parties so populist were running a fight against Parliament's salaries. But now that Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself takes it up, I would say that I agree that we should have the same retirement age • we have also tabled a resolution on it ourselves. It is true that there was a short period during which the Commission worked, when we did not want to take a position on the matter before the Commission had thought about it, and there was a reason for that. For what the Commission proposed was, after all, the same retirement age as for the rest of the population, but a significantly increased remuneration for members of parliament. We did not think that the increase in remuneration was something we could stand by. But then we also found it difficult to take the 8-10 per cent. of the parliamentary bill, if we were to have exactly the same pension rules, and then we found the solution called the same retirement age and roughly unchanged parliamentary fees. So there was a reason why we had to get the overall basis first. But we have, and we have said this all the way through, always believed that of course there should be the same retirement age, and we are glad that Enhedslisten has agreed with us on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110127	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110131	That is not quite true, because Enhedslisten made proposals back when the retirement age was changed, and almost all parties may have voted against except the SF and the Danish People's Party. That was years before we set up a commission. Then a commission was set up, and then it was the excuse for not voting in favour. But there is also a period ahead of it. But let it go. Does the rapporteur think it is right that as a four-year-old parliamentarian you can earn as much lifelong pension as a skilled craftsman may be 15 or 20 years old to earn?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110210	In other words, it is clear that if, as I did, you make a comparison with a head of department in the public sector, you can see that a head of department in the public sector, because the salary is higher, will also receive a higher pension than an unskilled worker will. So, in the amount of the fee alone, there is, of course, a higher pension built-in. Then there is the thing with us that must be elected and we each have our own history for it • that often it is very difficult to reconcile with ordinary work to run for a parliamentary election, and by the way, the vast majority of those who are running are not elected. Therefore, for long periods of time, many people must not have a job or work less than they would like to do in order to be able to run. That is why it is not quite unreasonable, I think, to have suffered other pension conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110257	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments, and then it's Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110306	Thank you. In the SF, we can support this bill which changes the pay and pension conditions of ministers. Frankly, we think it's time it came. There has been a lot of talk about populism and back and forth, so I really just want to start by saying that I and SF would like to praise the people and parties who have helped to make this bill. We think it is important and we think it is a clear improvement. What we are wondering is why, when we have it on the table, when we are now in the process of improving and achieving equality, what is creating more, I believe, trust in the public and transparency, then we do not go all the way. That's what I'm trying to ask you today. I think it is a good thing to change the post-regulation, and I think it is right that, as a politician, one should also have an after-the-counter attitude, because politics is different from other working lives, and it may be difficult, perhaps after a long political life, to get into a job. So it is reasonable to have a copy, but it is also reasonable that we should now change it so that the minimum period is different, so it is 6 months. Then the agreement also means that a person in the future cannot obtain reimbursement from previous professions as mayor or chairman of the Regional Council at the same time as a minister or member of the parliament. It is also more than reasonable and a clear improvement. I experienced it myself when I left Køge City Council, where I was chairman of the committee, and then I got a copy of it, and I had to accept it. It ended up giving it away, but I had to accept it, because you couldn't give it up even if I got a parliamentary salary. It makes no sense, it is not fair, and I think it is actually a good thing to change it now. Then I also think it is very good that this agreement should change the pension situation in the future, so that politicians retire at the same time as those who retire. But there are just the two things that I do not quite understand, and that is also what I have been trying to ask about today. Why are we making this transition period? When you change the retirement age, what seems to be a lot of parties that want to do it again, you do it for the whole population, so why should it be different for politicians? Why should I be able to obtain the pension that I have earned in the year I have been sitting in here earlier than other Danes can get their pension? I simply do not understand that. I don't understand why you don't change it. Then I do not really understand why the pension is not made savings-based, so it is similar to the pensions we have on the labour market. In fact, I do not think it is right for a minister to be able to earn the same lifelong pension of eight years as a worker can on a full working life. So basically, I think this is a good proposal and I think it is a clear improvement, but I also think that we should have gone all the way and created a total equality between the pension situation of the population and the pension situation of politicians. But, of course, we are voting in favour of an improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110611	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110618	Thank you. I have followed the debate with great interest so far. I have also read the hearing answer and noticed that ATP was so kind to write in that according to § 1 paragraph. 6, there should be no comma in front of the word choose. This must be read in detail during a period of consultation, so we can be grateful for having received that help. What we are discussing today is on the basis of the recommendations of the Salaries Commission and the vote agreement that has since been concluded. There are a number of elements which came from the remuneration commission that have been chosen and which are included in this vote agreement, while other elements are not included. L 100, which we are discussing here and now, regulates the affairs of the ministers. There are a number of elements in what we think is very sensible. This applies, on the one hand, to the fact that the retirement age is going to follow the rest of the Danes in the future and that wages will be regulated in line with wage developments in the public sector, which also ensures that when we ask others for wage restraint, it is also what is being practised in here. After a study, we have shown that the employment situation is not as difficult as one might have feared. We also think that this is very sensible, just as we are also regulating it here, with the fact that you cannot be elected President of the Regional Council or mayor if you hold a ministerial role at the same time. These are all very sensible regulations that we support. I really think so, sir. Søren Gade said it very rightly in the past, namely that it should not be money that drives people into politics, nor should it be money that drives people out of politics or that does not put people in the first place. But it must also be said that the salary conditions of politicians are particularly complex, because there are many things to be taken into account, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard mentioned it. Many people are fighting for many years to be elected before they succeed, and in that time you have less time at work and you take time off from being able to campaign. I personally quit my job to fight to be elected to the Folketing, and that's how I think everyone has their stories. That I still pay off on a student loan to this day, I don't think I would have done either if I hadn't spent so much of my time on politics and hadn't had the opportunity to have a job during that period. That's how a lot of different circumstances are gonna be involved in this whole puzzle game. On the conservative side, we support the bill that is here and we think that the balance is very sensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110853	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and that is why it is the Minister for Finance now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113110902	Thank you for the many comments in the debate on the terms, remuneration and pensions of ministers. As always, this is something that involves a great many people in and outside the Parliamentary Chamber. However, I would like to make a few comments on this. The draft law which is now under discussion and which concerns the conditions of ministers must, of course, be seen in the context of the changes for members of parliament, mayors and presidents of the regional councils, but they run in two other stages, respectively through the announcement by the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Minister for the Interior and in the subsequent proposal. So what we are discussing now is the terms of ministers. There is one thing that has been repeated several times, namely that the conditions are now being changed for ministers to retire at the age of 60. I should just like to remind you that there are in fact a whole series of different dates and that the question of when a minister can retire depends on when his term of office began and when pension rights have been earned. This means, for example, that those who have been ministers since 1 January 2007 will not be able to retire at the age of 60. They have the opportunity to retire when they reach retirement age, and it is not a fixed nominal age, but the age laid down in the rules on early retirement. So as the retirement age is changed as adopted, the retirement age and the terms for retirement will also be changed. For those who have been ministers in the past, the conditions in force at the time when they were ministers are maintained for the part they earned while they were ministers. This was not changed by the fact that in 2000 the rules governing the remuneration and salaries of ministers in general were changed, nor was a backward-looking change for those who had been ministers before. When the changes to the withdrawal reform were made, it was considered reasonable that the conditions that would be for ministers should also be changed in the future, in the same way as the conditions that would be for Danes in general would be changed in the future. In exactly the same way as other commitment pensions are in force in relation to the commitments made at the time of work, the same applies to ministerial pensions. This then means that the general claim that ministers could simply retire at the age of 60 is not true. I myself managed to be a minister for a number of years before 1 January 2007, and a small part of the pension that I have saved today will be able to be paid from my 60th birthday, and a somewhat larger part will then be paid at the time when I reach retirement age, whatever it may be, and, if so, that I must have some time as a minister after 1 April 2017, that part will then be paid at the time when I reach the current retirement age. So ministers' terms forward follow exactly the conditions we offer to all other Danes. What has been earned on a commitment pension in the past follows what was in force at the time when the commitment pension was earned. Having said that, I would like to welcome and note that there is broad support for the proposal. There is, of course, the discussion about whether you should have just taken the remuneration commission's model as it lay. It is no secret that I was among those who helped to propose that a remuneration commission be set up. I have to say that there was no support for the full model, and that was among other things. on the question of what conditions are at stake between the amount of remuneration, that is, the pay component, and, on the other hand, the right to earn the pension component. I have to say that the two parts, which make up for each other, have been put aside and many of the other issues are clarified here, and I think that is excellent. There has also been a discussion, particularly on the part of Mrs Josephine Fock, about whether there is transparency in what is. I have to say that members of parliament and ministers are some of those whose pay conditions are most transparent. Exactly what our pay relationship might be is on the PM's website. Whether they are easy to understand, i.e. whether they are simple to understand, may be something else. But to understand what the conditions are for ministers, including what the terms of pay and pensions are, is quite simple, just as there is, in the field of each minister, a transparency system in which you can see what each minister has had of representative expenses and other expenses paid by the Ministry. So I really think that there is a lot of openness about our terms, and I welcome the fact that there have been quite a lot of positive comments, including positive comments from more than those behind the vote agreement. I hope, of course, that those who have made positive comments, even if their wishes might have gone further, will nevertheless choose to say that they are voting in favour of what they want. We are then a few who have other wishes that have not been met in the draft law here. I think it is reasonable that we should then have the opportunity to discuss further, just as I am sure that this proposal, the subsequent proposal and the proposal on the conditions of mayors will always be discussed, as fortunately it is in an open democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111442	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111448	Thank you, sir. Minister, and also thank you for the honesty. I think that should be appreciated, in other words, that the Minister tells us honestly that the Minister himself begins to receive his pension when the Minister reaches 60 years of age. Then the Minister and other colleagues in the Minister's party follow the pre-retirement age at all times. I think that's really good. But the argument for that seems to me to be a little problematic. For what the Minister says it was an agreement that had been reached, and that cannot be changed backwards. But that's what gets in your ears a little bit, because that's exactly what you've done when it comes to the ordinary Danes. There are people who have gone and paid for the early retirement scheme in anticipation of being able to retire at a certain time, and then you go in and change the conditions for when they can do so, etc. etc. So there were no problems, even though it was, as it were, an agreement that had been made between Parliament and citizens. And there's this discrepan in it. I mean, you make a scheme where many of those sitting here today just save the skin on themselves, to put it frankly. That's what you do. It's okay to change this in the future, but that's what you do when you just do it in the future. But when it comes to the ordinary Dane, you don't have those reservations. One could have made the changes to the retirement age and retirement age, so that the part of the early retirement wage already earned, that is to say, if you had to make a parallel, you could still get paid for the age that was in force at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111608	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111611	When I responded to Mr. Pelle Dragsted's words, that's because I haven't promised to retire when I'm 60. I have said that I will have the opportunity to do so, but I am actually going to follow Mr. Leif Mikkelsen's excellent example and stay on the labour market a little longer. I think that would be fair, provided, of course, that I am healthy and bodied and have a mind that allows me to be longer in the labour market. I guess I can. What I have said is, what are my options? And it is the case that for those who earn ministerial pensions after 1 January 2007, their pension opportunities will be uprooted as they move the early retirement age. And for those who earn ministerial pensions after 1 April 2017, it is the case that their pension opportunities are being shifted as the retirement age is moved. So the picture that you just protect yourself and move all sorts of other people isn't right. It is the case that the age limits that may be raised for others are also followed for those who have earned after 1 January 2007 or on 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111713	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111718	Well, that's not correct. Let us take the example of the Minister's own party chairman, the Prime Minister. He'll be able to retire at 60. Then the Minister for Finance says that you can avoid retiring. That is true, but the Minister is so lucky that the money will roll into the account anyway. They don't do that at sir's office. Leif Mikkelsen, because he's in the Folketing. But if, for example, the Minister of Foreign Affairs... If you get another job, the pension begins to roll in, whether the Minister wants it or not, and that is what we point out as something quite unreasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111748	I think that this is a discussion that can be conducted without highlighting individuals. I would like to accept that my person is being discussed because I stand in this Chamber and can defend myself. I just think that we should take the discussion without highlighting others. I am in the situation that I think it is reasonable that those who have earned pension schemes under the terms of commitment pensions, as well as civil servants' pensions, should also receive according to the conditions in force when they earned their pension. And the claim we have heard several times that ministers can now just retire when they are 60, that is, it is not applicable to all those who have earned since we changed the rules from 1 January 2007. They may receive their pension at the age of early retirement, whatever it may be. And when it is moved, so is the retirement age of ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111835	I should just like to say that there are many times in this debate which has referred to the personal circumstances of its own or other persons, and we do not normally do so here in Parliament. That is actually in the Rules of Procedure. So you don't have to look so skeptical, because it does. So I think we should refrain from that. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113111901	I do not think I can quite refrain from mentioning some personal matters at some point now when we are discussing politicians' personal affairs, so I shall try to do it as much as you can at all. But there are, of course, individuals sitting in this Chamber who benefit greatly from the legislation that is being made and who have significantly better conditions than all other people who are outside it. I would like to keep on talking about this with whom the new system applies and that it only applies in the future. Because what I understand from the Minister for Finance is that there is something about that security that if you have earned something and you have been told you have the right to it, then you should also be able to be safe enough to know that it will continue to apply, even in the future. And I think that's right. I think that security should apply to ministers and members of parliament, but also to SOSUs and bricklayers and educators and all the others. So why is it that that argument has never bitten when we talk about the conditions of everyone else outside Christiansborg? Why should the security only be there for those who sit in here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112009	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112011	I fully agree that it can be difficult to avoid talking about the pay conditions of colleagues when we talk about the pay conditions of ministers. I just want to make the arrest that it's completely wrong to say that this bill doesn't change my pension terms. This bill changes my pension conditions quite dramatically, both in relation to when I can retire if necessary, and in relation to what it is for a set-off that may be in consequence, also in relation to, if I may be a minister at the time, the post-employment scheme that may be at the time when I stop. In other words, these are matters which change quite decisively for those colleagues who sit here in the Chamber today and may be ministers or be those on which a later discussion here is about, namely members of parliament. So a claim that this doesn't change my terms, I think it's completely wrong. This, of course, changes my terms and my pension savings, what I earn from pensions in the future, will change as the retirement age changes. I think that is fair. That is why we are proposing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112108	Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112112	I think it is true that this changes the conditions for some of the current ministers more than for others, depending on how long they have been ministers and whether they have been ministers before 2007 and everything else. What summa summarum has to say is that a great many of the ministers who are sitting now, a great many of the MPs who have been ministers both before and after 2007, therefore, do not get a retirement age called the retirement age. They will maintain the favourable conditions they have and those who have not yet retired can look forward to doing so very, very early. Is it not true that there are a number of current and former ministers and members of parliament who can keep these extremely favourable conditions, which we have finally agreed are unfair at last?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112205	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112208	I just have to say that it was in 2006 with effect from 1 January 2007 that the rules were amended so that pension earnings for a minister followed the retirement age that others were asked for. This was when the early retirement age was followed, and when the retirement age has changed, the pension conditions of ministers have changed since 2007. Now we're gonna change them again. This applies to all ministers who have become ministers since 1 April 2007 for what is earned after 2007. Unless there are some of the ministerial team that were not ministers per year. 1 April 2007, this changes the terms of all ministers for what is earned after 1 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112250	There are a few further comments, first from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112304	Thank you. It is probably more of a comment to the Minister than the Minister mentioned my words about transparency. In other words, transparency for me is also that it is easy to see through. Now I think the Minister said that there is full transparency, and I fully agree with that. You can go in and see what our salaries are public, and the salaries of the ministers are public, the post-regulation is public and all that. So I associate transparency with being able to see things through, and there I think it would have been appropriate to standardise this more, both the pensions and remuneration of ministers, and, this is a legislative proposal that we will come to shortly, in relation to the Members of Parliament, so that there is more alignment, in relation to how we do it in the rest of society. So that's more of a comment. For me and for the alternative, that means that something is transparent, also that it is easy to see through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112356	I agree so far that there is a difference between something being open and something being easily transparent, but I hope that we are • and I can understand that we are completely in agreement that there is openness about the financial conditions of ministers. It is possible for everyone to come in and see what conditions apply to each minister. I think that is quite reasonable. With this bill, we are also taking some steps in relation to transparency, in other words in relation to offsetting, if you have had another political post in the past and come into the Folketing, and some of the problems that have been cleared up are being cleared up. The question remains as to whether one considers that the balance between remuneration and pension conditions is fair, and it is true to me that the two things are a balance, that is to say a balance in how much of what is earned in the annual remuneration and what is the right to earn the pension that has been earned in the future. There have been various suggestions that this could be done differently. It has not been possible to reach agreement on this, and that is why the current proposal on the balance sheet has been moved forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112458	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112500	I did not really intend to take the floor again, but then I would like to comment on the latter. I fully agree that there must be a balance between remuneration and pensions, and that was not one of the points I addressed in my rapporteur's speech. But now the Minister has just mentioned that this proposal has been set off against the background of going out and getting a political job, and perhaps I have not been able to read that out, so I would really like to hear: is that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112523	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112525	I am sorry if I have expressed myself unclearly, but it is the opposite, in other words, if you come from a political job. After all, we know a specific case, a very controversial one, and this matter is so clarified by the draft law here that you do not take a copy of a previous political job further.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112546	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112550	Thank you. One question is pressing, and that is the part of the proposal which deals with the abolition of the 5% reduction in the ministerial bill. In fact, free from memory, I believe that this was something the former VK government carried out at a time when some rather far-reaching economic reforms were being carried out. I have to say, I took my hat off for the government when they made it. I thought it was a right step to take. It sent out a good signal that you knew that you had an economically difficult situation to deal with. That is why, of course, I am also sorry that the intention is to abolish this reduction from 2019 and I would like the Minister to elaborate on why it has been decided to implement it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112630	It is correctly remembered, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen says that it was the then VK government that, in view of the economic crisis and the large deficits that the state had in, as far as I remember, 2010, chose to make a temporary reduction in the remuneration of ministers with the intention that after a number of years they would have to return to normal levels. The temporaryness was then extended by some laps, I don't remember exactly how many, but at least one round, to an additional date. It was also agreed that the extension of the reduction would expire, so that the level would be restored. I do not think that I am talking more about my colleagues than about myself paying ministers in Denmark too little in salary. I think you pay a good salary. I also think that, in view of the economic situation we were in, the temporary reduction also has an expiry date, which it has for those elected after the next parliamentary elections, after we adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112736	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112739	Thank you for your answer. I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112744	Then it's just the last one asking, at least for the time being. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112750	Thank you. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, I actually believe that this is an improvement and that there are many good things in this proposal. What puzzles me is that we do not go all the way to putting politicians' pensions on an equal footing with the people's pensions. What I really want to ask you is also what I asked Mr. Leif Mikkelsen on the subject is: Why do ministers have to earn a lifelong pension so much faster than ordinary workers? In other words, why is it that a minister should be able to earn a pension of eight years while a worker needs to spend his entire working life? I don't understand. Why has it not been addressed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112827	Because there couldn't be an agreement on that. I can explain the answer, because I can see that I have a little speaking time left. So it was the conclusion. Because that was, of course, discussed. It was discussed whether a change should be made to the balance between the remuneration and pension earnings period. It was then discussed. It was also discussed in the Salaries Commission, but there was no possibility in the circle of parties which made the vote agreement to agree on a new balance, a different balance, and therefore it was not changed. I believe that the overall package and that is what the politicians' economic conditions need to be assessed according to the size of the country today. It's really big today. But it is clear that you can say that you want to change the pension component. Then I just think that there should be an upward change in the remuneration component. And if there can be no agreement on that, then I think we should maintain the current rules that provide a good, comprehensive package for politicians' conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112925	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112929	So, if it is up to the Minister, should we have actually taken the proposal from the remuneration commission and thus made a contribution-based pension and raised the salaries of politicians quite significantly? Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112942	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113112946	It is now almost as long ago as I read the report of the Pay Commission that I find it difficult to recognise exactly what the proposal was about, so I will not get stuck with their proposals. I was among those who asked for a remuneration commission to be set up in order to have an external look at what the economic conditions are. So I just want to deal with the principle. I am not saying that it is natural that the pension recovery period that exists today should remain there. I am just saying that if you change the balance of the overall package, so that the pension income is longer, possibly labour market-based, then it is a downward change in the overall package. And then it should be countered by an upward change in remuneration. And if, at some point in the Folketing, you can agree on that, then I think it would be an excellent idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113030	Thank you. And then there are no more brief remarks. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed. Then perhaps I should add, for the sake of completeness, that we have sat and argued a little up here about whether it is in the Rules of Procedure. It may not, but it is quite common practice not to refer to the personal circumstances of individual members. That really makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113102	As you know, there is no minister in this area, as this is the responsibility of the Folketing itself. So now the next chairman of the chair will listen carefully to the debate on the proposal to be dealt with by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113136	The debate is open. Here you go, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113144	Thank you. Then we will have another round, where we will have the opportunity to discuss more or less the same thing, I think, but then we will have been through it. This is again the issue of the remuneration commission, and this time the draft law specifically deals with the remuneration and pension conditions of members of parliament. In relation to the content of the specific legislative proposal, it is the case that this means that the endorsement for Members of Parliament is reduced to a six-month minimum period, and that is a proposal that we can support. It is also the case that the right to reimbursement for former members of the regions and town councils who may become members of the Folketing or, for that matter, become ministers is abolished. And it is also the case that we are raising the retirement age of members of parliament to the retirement age in the future. It is also the case that the foundations for members of parliament are being adjusted in the future on the basis of actual wage developments in the public sector. And, in addition to this, it has also been agreed that in the Danish Parliament there can also be a free-of-charge accommodation in line with the members of the Bureau forward-looking, so that the work can be better organized by the Danish Parliament. All in all, these are a number of adjustments in relation to the current conditions that we can support and think are sensible. That is why the Social Democrats can support the proposal in question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113336	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. No, I am sorry, there are a few brief comments, so I would like the rapporteur to come back. It's first, sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113353	Thank you. The good thing about there being some kind of second round is that you can ask again. Following his previous rapporteur's speech, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen to me that he would introduce me to an agreement negotiation, that is, to how such a one works. But it is now the case that this is not the case here. The workers do not decide their own wages; the politicians do. Workers do not decide their own pension conditions; politicians do. The workers are fighting for it and negotiating it. So I think that there is a difference and I do not think that this can be compared to an agreement negotiation. I would like to ask: does Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, that it is reasonable for politicians to take ministers after 8 years and politicians after 20 years, do I think that can earn a lifelong pension? So why should politicians be able to earn pensions so much faster than ordinary workers? Does the rapporteur not think that this is unreasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113452	I believe that the SF's rapporteur at one point expressed as a question why it was actually seen in terms of remuneration in relation to pensions. Then I would just like to point out quietly that when you discuss working conditions, pension conditions and wage conditions in the rest of the labour market, you see it under a single whole. I think that is also the way in which the remuneration commission itself has argued throughout its work, and that is also my argument that, when I do not change the remuneration, I do not change the pension either. Then I think we should be careful if we, as a member of the Folketing, want to play a part in this machinery, and I understand that is the intention when we generally talk about Members of Parliament being able to earn a very, very lucrative and fat pension. I would point out once again that for most members of parliament, the average time here is between 7 and 8 years. And if you look at what it amounts to in relation to an entire pension over a working life, you can see that it is not something that sets a precedent, in other words, that it is all members of the Folketing who receive such a pension in this way. In fact, it is now unusual for people to sit in here for quite a long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113604	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113606	But now it is not about how long Members of Parliament are sitting here or how long ministers are sitting here. It is about what it takes, how long it takes to earn a lifelong pension comparable to that of an ordinary worker. That is what we are trying to do: put politicians' pensions on an equal footing with workers' pensions. So what I just want to ask again is: what is the reasonableness of a minister, if the minister sits for eight years, or a parliamentarian, if the MP sits for 20 years, earns the same pension that a worker spends his whole life earning? What is the reasonableness of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113642	I think, in fact, that what this is all about in relation to pensions and pensions is what you get out of it at the time you had to retire. That is why I think it has something to do with how long you're in here. However, I should like to ask the rapporteur again: is it, as the rapporteur wishes, that members of parliament should receive a pension which corresponds to a worker's pension, as has now been said? After all, it is a question of reducing the current pension to a different level. And then I would like to help the rapporteur and his party by proposing an amendment here too, in which the rapporteur will then have the opportunity to cross off on his own with regard to a reduction in the pension if he now thinks that the level is quite unreasonable. We'd be happy to do that. I think it is fair and I stand by it. If the rapporteur thinks otherwise, he will have the opportunity to change it in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113730	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113735	First of all, thank you for the rapporteur's speech and thank you for finally finding a sensible position in this. I was looking at old debates about this back from, for example. 2010, when Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen was also rapporteur and dismissed a similar proposal as pure populism. So it's positive, I think we've gotten there. And that's when that's said, there's still some beauty stains on this, and that's among other things. This is because a great many of our colleagues who have been elected either before 2007 or in the period 2007-2012, as far as I remember, and it is precisely in the collections in here that a higher retirement age for the Danes was adopted, so this is still the case with the rapporteur himself, if you have to be so free, who can retire long before the general population. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113849	I believe that the agreement we made back in 2006 which gradually increases the retirement age compared to the average life expectancy is a fair agreement, also fair in relation to the labour market. And it was also the one who, if I may say so, was subsequently addressed in relation to how to regulate the relations of members of parliament and ministers in the future. I think that is quite reasonable. If sir... Pelle Dragsted asks me whether I think it is fair to change the post-retirement wage as they did, so the answer is that no, I did not think I was politically opposed to it. I made a deal that I actually thought you could trust. You couldn't. That agreement was made by a majority of parties that ran away. I'm so sorry it happened. That is why I think that my starting point, namely to say that an agreement is an agreement and that we need to know the conditions under which we are going to retire. But the fact that it is constantly adjusted in relation to life expectancy, so that the retirement age is raised, seems reasonable to me, and that is why I think it is reasonable to regulate it afterwards in relation to the agreement that may be for the private as well as for us in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113113956	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114000	Well, I think that is very positive, that is, the part of what is about the general population. And I really hope that we can look forward to achieving some improvements, especially for those who have been on the labour market for a very long time. After all, many parties in this House are talking about this, and we would very much like to enter into a dialogue on this, not least if we get a new majority after an election. But I just do not think it answers what I asked a question about: the fact that when the rapporteur says that he stands for the retirement age of the Danes, that is to say the first major retirement agreement, it was still left, also after that, so that a lot of colleagues in this House who adopted it here could already receive their pension from the retirement age, and therefore not from the retirement age. And that's what you say because you have an agreement, but what about the Danes who expected to retire earlier? I guess it was some kind of deal, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114055	Well, I think I've answered that one thing is what you do with agreements. It may also be that you've made an agreement with your pension company, or that you've made an agreement with your workplace or something else where there are some terms... but if you come and change the general terms, it's usually forward-looking. Then there are some general arrangements in which we intervene in relation to the labour market, where it will seem different. However, I do believe that when we made the withdrawal agreement in 2006, there was a clear premise that, after retirement, the average life expectancy was 191⁄2 years, and this also meant that you had the right to five years' early retirement. That was the agreement reached at the time; it was the expectation that existed. If you can talk about breach of contract there... and I agree that you can... it's in relation to those who have tampered with the early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114143	The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114145	After the svada that comes from sir... Henrik Sass Larsen and the Social Democratic Party today, about how everyone who thinks this is not exactly the right level we have landed on, throws gravel into the machinery and is almost populists, I would just like to arrest that social democracy has repeatedly stood and accused us who would change things, of being populists, and it has been said that nothing was wrong. Yet social democracy also changes its attitude when there is pressure. We're actually there now that these things are being addressed, that is, where the retirement age is being fixed. That's good. So it is not worthwhile, and I wonder if we will persuade the Social Democratic Party to bring the rules into line even more in the long term if we continue to do so. I'd just like to hear about that, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen says this is an expression of the fact that you really think that the Danish politicians should have improved conditions. Does the Social Democratic Party really think that there is a need for a higher salary and a better pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114300	First of all, about populism: I think that it is populism when you repeatedly stand up and attack all colleagues for too much money and for too good pensions and other things, and then you raise it yourself afterwards. Then they say: some of the money has to go to my party, because then I can hire a lot of party officials and something else. I think that is actually populism and close to hypocrisy, and that is why I would like to help the Enhedslisten with that issue. Now the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned earlier that one would like to go down on what a blacksmith earns on average. We can have that as a level. But why, moreover, has Enhedslisten come to the conclusion that a blacksmith's salary is a reasonable starting point? Why not an early retirement? We can have that as a level. And then you can be allowed to cross in exactly where you want the wage level. The social democracy and I, for our part, are actually determined that we think the pay and working conditions we have today are fair. We would be happy to set a target for them. But when Enhedslisten and others stand up and hypocrite and tell everyone that you think we are getting too much, I would like to help them forward so that there will be an opportunity to cross in somewhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114409	What I was asking was: Is that an expression of Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen and the Social Democratic Party really think that Danish politicians are paid too little? Is that why you get so damned and call it populism when the rest of us say that we actually think that there should be pension conditions similar to those of ordinary Danes in the labour market, for example. the model of contributions financed by the remuneration commission? Then you call it populism. Is that an indication that Mr. Does Henrik Sass Larsen and the Social Democratic Party really think that the salary and pensions or one of them should be higher?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114449	We think that the conditions we have now are reasonable. We stand by them and we stand by them. Right here, Enhedslisten actually has a unique chance to adhere to its own principles in that you think you get too much in pay. But then you try to get around it in all kinds of ways. We can make sure to reduce Enhedslisten's salary so that it corresponds exactly to what you think is reasonable. You could just sign for it and say that you want to. But you don't want to, because then it'll hurt your party so you can't do all sorts of things or everything else. Now you actually have the chance, now you have the opportunity, so I really look forward to hearing the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114526	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Peter Kofod Poulsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114541	Thank you, sir. President. The proposal we are debating now is, of course, in many ways similar to the previous proposal that we have just discussed. I would like to start by saying that this is a very good initiative in relation to what is being done for the retirement age of Members of Parliament. I think it is quite reasonable that it should, of course, run away with the general retirement age. It's really good. So we can certainly support that. Another very good point is the section on the options that will be available to the business secretaries in the future. Many of the things that are in the chair, typically at odd times, are given better opportunities, for example. To spend the night. I think that is entirely within the dial and, incidentally, quite excellent for those people who are making a great effort to have the debates in this House conducted properly. There is also something that we simply have to ask more about in committee when the proposal is to be dealt with, and that will be the whole issue of early retirement. It is not quite clear to us what this bill will mean in that particular area, and we simply need to clarify this even more clearly. We shall then seek to be informed of this before making any final commitment. But the other elements are very good for us and, of course, we can support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114714	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next in line is Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113114723	After all, the draft law we are debating has some good elements, among others. changed the retirement age • a lot of fine adjustments that we in Enhedslisten have been fighting for for many years. I also think it is glorious that the parties behind the remuneration commission chose, after all, to drop the wage increases that were planned there. However, we are going to table some amendments to this draft law, among others. the introduction of the pension financed by contributions, as proposed by the Salaries Commission, because there is a need for a normalisation of the retirement age, yes, but also of the pension situation, and we think it is reasonable, as a parliamentary politician, to have a pension comparable to that of the ordinary labour market, so that we know the conditions and know what that means and also feel it on our own. We think that is also fair, without it being necessary to have a huge increase in wages as compensation. This is quite fundamental because we who are sitting in here are behind some really thick walls, both concrete and figuratively speaking. For a lot of people, I think, it can be hard to remember what it's like outside if you get really, really good relationships like there are in here, and you sit here for many years. So for us it is a purpose in itself that we have something that is comparable to the people's situation, also because it creates a lot of politicians when you sit and scratch on yourself while changing the conditions of everyone else. Then there is something that has sneaked in here and that immediately looks pretty grotesque, and that is such a special possibility of early retirement for members of parliament. It's very hard to know where to start with that element. In other words, we could start by talking about those people who cannot get early retirement and who are being sent on work tests and forced to live insecure and poor because we do not think they are sick enough and must see if we can squeeze a single hour's work out of them. We can also start with the ministers and members of parliament who are sitting in here today, who have negotiated this home and who have conveniently avoided the fact that the increased retirement age has come to apply to themselves, or we can start with those parties that will set up the retirement age for ordinary hard-working people. There are many places you could put your finger on when you talk about this extra option for early retirement, which has crept into the bill. But to dream at all that there should be such a special opportunity for members of parliament to retire a little before everyone else, after so many years of debate and criticism, where we have finally arrived, that the retirement age is being changed, I simply do not understand. I think it is very important to respect, of course, the fact that there is hard work involved in being a member of parliament and that you expose yourself too much and that you work many hours a day. I also think it is very important that we remember that we are not that special. It is also not so hard to sit in here on the soft chairs that we must have some very special relationships with all other people. We would also very much like it to reflect the situation. Well, that is why we are also going to table an amendment, we think, at least, after some questions that abolish the possibility of early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115126	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Sass Larsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115131	I just need to know how Enhedslisten has come to the conclusion that it is fair that you should pay yourself as a metal worker. Why did you just end up on a metal worker's salary? Why not an early retirement or a cashier's? Why has it been established that it should be the wages of a metal worker?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115156	It is provided for in the Enhedslisten's statutes, so it is the Enhedslisten's members who have made that decision, and this applies not only to the members of parliament, but also to all our employees. Whether they clean up our country office, whether they're HK employees or they're our academic employees, they get that salary. It is in our statute, and it is after long discussions on how to find a reasonable level. We must ensure that people have proper relationships, including in our party. You're not supposed to live on hunger wages just because you're a socialist. Conversely, it must also be a salary which reflects it as it is for such fairly ordinary people. We think the early retirement is extremely low. If sir... Henrik Sass Larsen will help to remove the downfalls of it, which means that it will be able to do so, among other things. As a result of the votes of the Social Democratic Party, every year is being eroded, we would very much like to take a look at it, i.e. if it is a discussion about the amount of early retirement, Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen now adds up. If this is a discussion on the wages of Enhedslisten, yes, I have shown the answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115301	It is interesting, however, that all the comrades can be understood that it is a reasonable level that they receive a couple and thirty thousand kroner a month. Why is it not lower if we now have to show solidarity? The Enhedslisten believes something about the fact that we other people are getting too much, and they have made some average salary, etc., but that is considerably higher than what many other people are getting, who are going to work and who are also working hard on something else. How has Enhedslisten come to the conclusion that they are worth more than those people when you stand up and talk about soft chairs and good conditions and everything else? Why not go further and put yourself a little further down in pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115335	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115338	I think, sir. Henrik Sass Larsen must point to the resolution in which the Enhedslisten has been extremely concerned about the salary level of the members of parliament, and what we have spent a very long time on has been pensions. That is the one thing I would like to say, Mr President. Henrik Sass Larsen keeps talking about the fact that we have made proposals that Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen needs a lower salary. In fact, we do not, on the contrary. We've just said no to putting it up, but that's what it is. Then we have decided in the Enhedslisten, however, and it is our members who have done so that we should receive a salary as parliament politicians and as full-time employees, which is more similar to that of ordinary people. It is true that you could have chosen anything, that you could have chosen any level, and a metal worker in Copenhagen does not belong to the least paid, there is no doubt about that. So I don't go to work every day and complain that I get too little pay. On the contrary, I live fine and well on it. But, of course, you could have discussed it, and if Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen joins the Enhedslisten, he can propose a change to our statute, which reduces my salary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115438	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Leif Mikkelsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115446	Thank you. I am not going to go over the individual elements that previous rapporteurs have pointed out in this proposal, which is also drawing threads to the previous proposal. After all, there is a remuneration committee that has worked on this before, and this is what has been agreed on, and we are talking about remuneration and pensions in a context. This could lead us to a rather more in-depth discussion, in which we could be involved by the Liberal Alliance if it were a way to go, but, as I said, we agree with this proposal and that is what can be achieved. However, when the remuneration commission presented its ideas and ideas, the political leader of the Liberal Alliance, Anders Samuelsen, said that perhaps we should proceed more drastically and point out that the remuneration of members of parliament should be increased to one million. kr., and then one could reduce the number of members of parliament, and it could be a good way to go for the Folketing. But we have not registered there representing a majority, so it is not a proposal. However, this leads me to say that it would then be appropriate to discuss whether members of parliament, when they are sitting in here, are not able to take more care of their own circumstances than is the case here with such a decision. It could be said that if you got a salary of this size that is why, I think we have talked about pensions and wages in a context today, it would be so appropriate to be a private matter, how much should be set aside for retirement. After all, there are plenty of people in the labour market who decide for themselves how much they really want to set aside for their pensions, and one might well say that could be a task the Members of Parliament could solve for themselves. Then we should have a fundamental discussion about the terms of the members of parliament and their own responsibilities for their own lives also after time here. Then one could appropriately discuss having a wage level and that one can decide more for oneself whether to apply it during the period one is then active or whether one wants to set aside more for a pension. After all, we in Denmark have special tax rules for how to do that. So it was kind of in the signals we gave at the time. We note that this is the proposal and we are also co-sponsors, and that is why, of course, we stand by it. But now I've just mentioned this, because otherwise I'd probably have some questions about it in a minute. However, we support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115728	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115739	Thank you. It is difficult not to repeat part of what I also said in the previous draft law. We would have liked to have seen the whole package taken from the Pay Commission to clarify what kind of problem we think should be solved. We think there should be transparency, and I also explained this in the question I had to the Minister for Finance, and we understand transparency as being easy to see through what level of pay we have, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, etc. etc. and that there is comparability with the rest of the labour market. We think it is positive that the post-regulation is changed from the 12 months to the 6 months, and that is also the recommendation of the remuneration commission. We also find it very positive that political remuneration is going to follow wage developments in the public sector and, in particular, we think it is very positive that the retirement age for MFs should be raised from retirement age to retirement age. Once again, we find it really a pity that we continue with an official's pension and do not move to an occupational pension; we think it is really a pity that we do not make full set-off, and we think it is a pity that we do not really use the opportunity to get it all straightened out. That is why, as I said before, we are now listening to the debate here and I shall take a final position on the work of the committee. However, as I said, we think that the elements that lie in it are positive, and it is good that we are moving on to it, but we think it is a pity that we miss the chance to do what is right and to increase transparency.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115944	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Next in line, sir. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113115951	Thank you. The more fundamental considerations on the remuneration of members of parliament and ministers were set out in the previous item on the agenda, so I will not repeat that here. I just want to say we're happy with this bill. We have been working for many years to get a retirement age that was the same in here as it is for the rest of society. Anything else would be a very, very strange signal, especially when we change retirement age. So we're glad about that. We are also pleased that we are now getting an entirely automatic regulation of the remuneration in here, which is neither higher nor lower than the one that is going on in the community around us. On the whole, we will do everything we can to support the fact that we have exactly the same conditions to work under as the people who are not sitting in here, and we will endeavour to ensure that this becomes the norm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120043	Thank you to the Radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120053	Thank you. As with the second proposal on the salaries and pensions of ministers, we also believe that this proposal is a clear improvement, but that there are some shortcomings which we will both vote for when they are corrected by means of an amendment, but which we would also call on the parties behind this excellent proposal to help change. First of all, it makes sense here too to change the minimum period for the post-regulation period, so that it will be six months. As I said at the previous reading, it is good and important that politicians who have had a long political life away from sometimes both business and public life can come out and have the opportunity to retrain and get a room to find a new job. That is why I think it is very sensible that we should have that pool of education, so that we can get out as a politician afterwards and train ourselves. This should also be done more generally for workers. Then it is even more sensible, I think, to equate the retirement age of politicians with the age of retirement, but, as in the past, I think this should apply to all those who are in this Chamber. There should not be this transitional arrangement that allows the pension earned until 1 April 2017 to be paid earlier. It must be the same, as it is for the rest of the population, that when we change people's pension conditions, that applies to us too. And then I think that we need to change the way in which we earn pensions so that it becomes contribution-based, as proposed by the Pay Commission. I do not think it is fair that we should be able to earn a life-long pension of 20 years when it takes workers a full working life or that ministers should be able to do so in eight years. I do not think that is fair, and if there is an amendment from Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen, who is talking about politicians being able to choose one or the other type of pension, seems reasonable to me, because that means that those parties who want to follow the recommendations of the Pay Commission can choose it. I also believe that it would be worthwhile, in the eyes of the people, to try to ensure that we have the same conditions as the people. Then I also believe that the tax-free supplement should have been looked at. I think the tax-free supplement belongs to another time. I think it sends out some confusing signals to the public. Why do we need a tax-free supplement? What's doing this? I understand that the tax-free allowance was introduced so that you could pay for the telephone and newspapers, but that is a different time now. I believe that the tax-free supplement creates some myths that we have very, very favourable wage and pension conditions. So I think we should have scrapped the tax-free supplement and replaced it with either a small increase in wages, that is to say a larger increase, of which we then paid taxes, or a scheme in which we were then reimbursed our expenses, because I believe that it would have created greater transparency about why it is actually that we receive the salary we are doing. But overall, together with the previous proposal on the salary and pensions of ministers, I believe that this is an improvement, and that is why the SF is voting in favour of the proposal, but we are also in favour of some amendments which we think can make it even better and even more reasonable and create an even clearer equality between the pension situation of politicians and the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120423	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120431	Thank you. Like the raisin in the sausage end, I am not going to drag the debate out unnecessarily much longer. We have already dealt with the first legislative proposal today, and so I explained our basic approach to this whole matter. This bill is then about the salaries of the members of parliament and not the salaries of the ministers. Here, too, we are pleased that the same retirement age is now being reached and that this minimum limit is being reduced for post-employment. There are a number of sensible adjustments that we support in the Conservative People's Party, which is why we naturally intend to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120510	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Søren Gade from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120531	Thank you. Bill No. L 106 follows on from L 100, and now we are talking about the situation of parliamentary politicians, and I shall not repeat what my fellow Members have said from the platform. It is, of course, a question of changing the situation of parliamentary politicians, so that they are more in line with the circumstances which Mr. and Mrs Denmark is working below, and the retirement age is now raised to the age of retirement, and we are lowering the post-retirement rate so that it goes from 12 months to 6 months. So I would like to thank you for the debate and then I would like to say that, of course, the Left supports these amendments and that I welcome the comments that have fallen. I can see that it is a broad majority in the Folketing that supports these changes in our relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120622	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120640	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120658	With B 15 it is proposed that a ban be imposed on the construction of minarets by mosques in Denmark. The debate on imposing a ban on the construction of minarets is not new. A similar motion for a resolution has been discussed in the past, as the comments on the proposal show. At that time, the present governing parties were opposed, and we still are. In Denmark we regulate the construction of new buildings, among others. in local plans drawn up in accordance with the rules of the Planning Act. Local plans shall specify the use of an area and the buildings that may be built in a particular area. This concerns, among other things: on the appearance of buildings, but e.g. also on requirements for maximum height. As a general rule, it is the municipal council that adopts these local plans, which means that they are through a democratic local process. I am confident that local politicians will be able to make the right decisions on whether or not, for example, there is a need for a common policy. the establishment of religious buildings, including, for example: I would like to know what the Commission intends to do in this respect. At the same time, I would also strongly urge the communities of faith to show consideration for the surrounding community by the very construction of religious buildings. Against this background, the government is opposed to imposing a ban on the construction of minarets and thus rejects the motion for a resolution. Having said that, I would like to say that the government fully shares the view that is also reflected in the comments on the resolution, namely that there is an increasing need to deal with the symbols that help to create divisions in Denmark. We agree that it is deeply problematic when religious environments close themselves and parallel societies develop. We should not accept that. A number of measures have therefore also been taken to put an end to this, and it has been with very, very broad support here in the Danish Parliament, and I would like to sign for that. We have full focus on the fight against parallel societies, and we should not accept it in Denmark. This effort must be constantly stepped up and reinforced, but we do not believe that a ban on minarets is the right way to go. The government is thus suspending the proposal to be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120948	There are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113120953	Thank you. It is, of course, a pity that the government is rejecting the proposal. It may not come as the big surprise, but it is of course too bad from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. I would like to ask a few questions about what the Minister mentioned, namely that the government agrees that there is an increasing need to do away with Islamic symbols. Can the Minister be a little more precise in relation to the symbols the government is thinking about, and in relation to whether the government intends to come up with a proposal or a proposal in this area, because that would be very good. I also consider it a little like a new announcement by the government and by the Minister that the government agrees in such a way that there is a need to do away with various Islamic symbols, but could the Minister be a little more precise about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121032	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121034	I find it extremely problematic if you shut yourself down, and if you do, for example. is very much involved in the construction of a minaret, which you know is one of the things that is going to create some wrestling in society. I have already said on several occasions that, since symbols are now being asked in general, I believe that the scarf is a women's oppressive symbol. That is not to say that I would be involved in banning it, but one must be aware of what signal one sends if one wears a scarf because it is a women's oppressive symbol in its foundation. I think we should take those discussions and I think we should take them even more openly than we have done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121128	I would still call for the Minister to be a little more precise in relation to which Islamic symbols the government thinks it is time to do away with. Then I would also like to ask the following question. If the government is unable to support this resolution, the government will help sign up to the legislation to ban the call for Muslim prayer in the public domain, because it is not clear from the legislation that it is not allowed to do so. Of course, a municipality can say as a condition, if you want to build a mosque, that then prayer may not be called, but the municipality can also choose not to do so. In other countries, there are different rules, there is the possibility that, under different conditions, you can call for prayer, and you cannot deny that at some point it will also come to Denmark unless the Folketing ensures that the legislation is so clear that a municipality knows that it cannot be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121212	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121214	I have to say again that I am very confident that this debate is best conducted in the municipalities and that the municipalities also take that responsibility on their part. It is not so long ago that we were discussing it is so little a different part, but still whether one should accept gender-separated swimming. It was a place where the municipalities set their feet. I think that the municipality of Aarhus came to handle this matter quite well, but it is clear that this also means that you have to be aware of your responsibilities around the municipalities, and it is good that there are also Dansk Folkeparti members in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121253	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121259	I think it is a little too lax, I would say to the Minister. Well, this isn't just a planned technicality we're discussing. It's like you're reducing it to just being a matter of the law of plans. This is in principle in relation to minarets in the Danish society and then, in addition, in relation to the fact that one can call for prayer. I believe that there is a high level of social control in the whole operation of the minarets and in the way they operate, which I think is frightening, also for those communities where there are minarets. That is why I think that the Minister could deal more in principle with this rather than just turning it into a matter of purely technicalities in relation to the law of plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121350	I really do not think that I am making it a purely legislative matter, but I think that I am making it a local issue. Actually, I think this is local. And I think it is a very, very important debate. It is so important a debate that it is not just a debate to be held in the Folketing, but it should be a debate that was also pervaded, you might say, by local democracy. And that's exactly what's happening here. Again, I have so much faith in the members of the municipal council making the right decisions in this area that I do not see it necessary for the Folketing to come in and legislate on it at this stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121435	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121437	Yes, but before going to the assembly hall where it is just good that we have the democratic conversation, I would say that I think that when you legislate, it is a question of what you mean. It is basically a question of what you mean. And I believe that, in relation to minarets, and this can be noted and noted in the Middle East, if you look at how minarets actually work • is very much an element of social control over it. And then it's just the question of whether you want something like this in Denmark in the future. That's where we say no. We don't want that. And there I just think that instead of saying that this could be a basis for a good public debate, the Minister should say what she really thinks about it and not just something like that that you are critical, but indeed also that you put action behind words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121522	Well, what's that doing, sir? Christian Langballe doesn't think that the municipal councils have the pondus to decide this? What makes the members of the Danish People's Party and the members of the Left in the municipal councils not have that pondus? I simply do not understand that. Why is it only the Folketing will be able to implement such a decision? You might as well do that in the municipalities. In fact, I think it is important that decisions such as these are taken locally, so that is something that is being considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121559	The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121602	Thank you. I think there are some very, very violent symbols in public space, as Mr. Christian Langballe spoke about social control. I wondered when I heard the Minister's start because, on the one hand, the Minister did not like these symbols in public space and, on the other hand, the Minister would not do anything about it. I think it is deeply paradoxical that, on the one hand, you can have some opinions, but, on the other hand, you do not want to pursue them. I don't understand. So let me just ask the Minister a very simple question: does Islam fill too much in public space?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121639	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121640	Yes, in some areas it does, but we actually have a country based on the freedom to believe in the god you want, and that means you have to worship the god you want. But that is why I can take the view that in some areas it is too much, and I think it is. I think it does if you look at the parallel societies we have. That's where I think it's too much. But to say that there should be an indifference, I very, very disagree with. I believe, in fact, that there is a very strong belief in what I am saying and what the government stands for: that local democracy can also take a position on important issues such as this. It has to be said that so far this particular issue has probably been handled very well around the municipalities, and I do not see why it should not be in the future as well. If it turns out that this is not the case, we can discuss it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121744	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121746	I find it a little strange that the Minister is using freedom of religion and liberalism in this debate, as I know, one does not necessarily have the freedom to build a tower if one wishes to do so. We'll regulate that in a different way. These are violent symbols, so I would just like to ask the Minister once again to clarify his point of view in relation to what the Minister will do to limit these symbols in public space. What exactly does the government have on the drawing board in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121817	It is absolutely correct what Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen says here that you don't just have the freedom to build a tower. No, that is precisely what is regulated in the legislation today too. It's just regulated locally. I'm not saying you can just build exactly what you want. In relation to what measures have been taken, I can say that this is one of the things that the Danish People's Party itself has been involved in, among other things. through the pool agreements that have been concluded and also through the agreement reached on religious ministers. So the Danish People's Party itself has helped to take some initiatives in this field.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121904	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121905	Thank you. I sense that perhaps the Minister might need a small bailout so that at some point she could comply with a ban on minarets. It is in Islamic theology that there is no place where it says that there must be a minaret for it to be a mosque. There just needs to be two things present. One is the qibla, i.e. the direction towards Mecca. And the other is the minbar, the pulpit. These are the two things that need to be present for you to have a mosque. So a palm hut can be a mosque. A tent can be a mosque. A factory building can be a mosque. A living room can be a mosque. So in Islamic theology there is actually help for the minister so that she can support the proposal and ban the minarets. With this information in mind, would the Minister not reconsider and accept the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121955	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113121956	I happen to know that the rapporteur himself is a municipal politician, or at least has a municipal political background, and that is why I can say that I am playing the ball with Mr Delors. Alex Ahrendtsen himself, because you can just put your foot down locally. And I think it is an excellent local debate to have. I do not believe that everything must necessarily always be controlled from Christiansborg, and certainly not if it is possible to do so locally. However, it should be the first time, I think, that I should be rescued by the Koran.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122028	In fact, I believe that the Minister often and often needs to be rescued by the Koran, because the Minister knows too little about what the Koran really means. The Minister did not want to answer the question. Now that I have asked the question which contains a very clear reference to how to ban minarets, because it is not something contained in the Koran, why would the Minister not do so? That's one. The second is that on the basis of the information I have provided, will the Minister ask his ministry to find out if it is true what I am saying here and then check whether it is possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122106	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122108	Now, I don't really question sir at all. Alex Ahrendtsen's information here, and I can inform Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen says that I'm a part of this kind of thing myself. Having said that, I just don't think it's in there that we disagree that it should be decided from Christiansborg. It can be decided locally. And I do not necessarily believe that everything should be decided by Christiansborg and hence by legislation. But it's not like this is an unregulated field. There is, of course, a democratic process when drawing up local plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122143	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122147	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I am very pleased that the Minister is not backing this resolution. I don't want it to be a secret. What I would like to hear from the Minister is that the comments on the proposal state that visible and distinctive Islamic symbols contribute negatively to the development of society by emphasising the differences between Muslims and Danes. I would like to know whether the Minister agrees with me that one can be a Dane and at the same time be a Muslim.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122215	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122216	Yeah, you can do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122221	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122223	I'm really glad to hear that. Then I would also like to hear the Minister's opinion that this is the way the remarks say and whether it does not help to promote the separation which the Danish People's Party is actually arguing against. Does the Minister not find it problematic that these wordings should be used in these remarks?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122238	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122239	No, I have to say that I am not so sensitive that I do not think that an open and free debate can be held in the Parliamentary Chamber, and frankly I also think that the Danish People's Party is entitled to do so. I think that the Danish People's Party is entitled to raise this issue, and I also think that the Danish People's Party is entitled to write, as they wish, in the comments of a motion for a resolution. I don't want to get involved in that. But it is not certain that I agree with everything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122306	The next question is Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122310	Thank you. Now it has become popular to throw in rescue crane. So I have another little wreath for the minister. I would like to answer one question that the Minister actually asked before: this question about pondus and why things cannot be done locally. I have a bit of experience from city council work, and my experience is that, on the contrary, especially in the Left, you look at what is going on at Christiansborg, and then you design yourself accordingly. So to the influence and local discussion that the Minister is asking for: I think it might be desirable for Christiansborg's guidelines and signals to be clearer, and I think that a good subject might be on the part of the Minister to have a completely clear position on minarets. One thing I would like to ask the Minister is that I have noticed the minister for a long time now jumping up like a lion outside the Assembly hall and falling down like a lamb inside the Chamber. When do we see the lion on the platform? That's what I'm looking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122415-2	I can have trouble with that, because I don't know the definition of a lion in this connection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122424	A lion could, for example. I would like to say a few words to the press outside the Parliamentary Chamber. And there I think we have a case here which I could imagine the Minister is actually responsible at the heart of the matter. And there it could be nice to hear the Minister stand behind it too in the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122444	Well, then I could say that, for example. could be in connection with the 40 restrictions that we have carried out and which the Danish People's Party has, after all, voted in favour of all 40 of them. I know I haven't discussed minarets before, so I don't quite know what it is, sir. Claus Kvist Hansen is referring to here. It has not been a debate that has filled me very much in the past, so I do not know exactly where you are going with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122504	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122509	Thank you very much. The Minister is very concerned about this issue of municipal self-government, and I believe that we agree on this in the first place. But is it not the case that at some level there has to be some limit to municipal autonomy, so that one simply has to draw a line in the sand? It can get completely out of hand if we don't interfere. So does the Minister have some definable limit on when we are allowed to interfere in municipal self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122537	In any case, I can say that I do not think it has yet got out of hand in this field, because I do not see things popping up at the moment. So I don't think it's possible to say it's gotten out of hand in this regard. Let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122554	But is it out of control in relation to, for example, burkinis? For I have at least seen the Minister interfere in this matter. And, in fact, if you define it that way, there is also talk of a local debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122606	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122608	Yes, it was just a debate that I raised, and it was then resolved locally by doing away with the gender-separated swimming. I think that is precisely one of the very good examples of the fact that the municipal councils themselves can solve some of these issues without the need to legislate on it, but that we can discuss it with each other. So it is actually exactly the spot on and just a very good example of why we should not legislate on everything. So thank you so much for that example.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122642	Then we are through the series of brief remarks. I thank the Minister. The first rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Dan Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122656	Thank you. I shall be very brief. The Social Democrats cannot support the proposal, and we cannot do so for the same reason that the Minister explained in his excellent speech, namely the fact that we are doing this kind of thing quite well and quite well in local democracy in Denmark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122721	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122726	Thank you. It comes as no surprise that the Social Democrats cannot support the resolution, but I would like to hear whether the Social Democrats are not prepared to make rules that make it impossible to call Muslim prayers in public. I assume that the Social Democratic Party believes that it should not be possible to do so. Would it not be reassuring if it were the case that in here in the Folketing you had the assurance that it could not be allowed out locally?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122751	In order to understand what the rapporteur thinks the problem is, I think I need to ask an in-depth question. Can the rapporteur give us any examples of this happening?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122804	In any case, we know that it has been authorised in other countries. I myself have had the pleasure of visiting a mosque in Malmö, where they also enjoyed it, for there they also called to prayer regularly. So it does occur in the countries around us, and it is very good to be at the forefront of the situation. We have seen in the municipalities how, for example, although I understand that this is the official position of the Social Democratic Party, it may be that I am wrong, we are opposed to gender-separated swimming lessons in swimming pools because we think that it promotes a certain view of women that we are opposed to. But that has been granted local permission, so if you are not at the forefront of the situation, you suddenly run the risk of getting out of hand. So there are actually plenty of examples that you have not been at the forefront of the situation, and then the question is: will the Social Democrats not be in this area, especially when they can see that it is happening in the countries around us?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122846	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122847	I have also visited mosques in other countries. I have even visited one with the rapporteur in Jordan. There are a lot of things going on in Jordan that are not going on in Denmark today and that I do not think we need to legislate too preventively to prevent that happening. Should it happen that all of a sudden we are having very serious problems with the fact that we cannot exist because prayers are being called in wide and wide in Denmark, we must take the discussion again. At this stage, I think we should respect our local democracy, and at this stage I see no problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122922	The next question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113122926	I would like to ask the Minister a question following on from the question, namely whether we should not just start from what Islam itself says about his mosques. Would it not be reasonable for the Minister and the Social Democratic Party, with Mr. Dan Jørgensen in the lead will see whether it is the case, as I said earlier, that there are only two things that are necessary, namely the qibla and the minbar, to have a mosque? You don't need the minarets at all, so we might as well ban them. Would it not be wise for us to examine it so that we could all become wiser and then decide on the matter on an enlightened basis? Will the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Dan Jørgensen, don't you agree?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123015	Neither I nor, for that matter, did the Minister say that we were against this ban, referring to something that was supposed to be in the Qur'an. So it seems a little strange that because the questioner can make a lot of quotes and explain what the Qur'an says, we should suddenly change our mind. No, contrary to what the rapporteur may think, I do not know, as it were, it is not by reference to anything written in any sacred writing that we are making legislation in this House, at least not in my party. So no, it doesn't change anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123051	But that's weird, for both the Minister and Mr. Dan Jørgensen refers precisely to freedom of religion and to local self-government and says that is why they will not be banned. Now that we can help both the Minister and Mr. Dan Jørgensen, on the one hand, as far as religion is concerned, and say that there is no need for minarets at all, why on earth would one not accept the outstretched hand? Is it because the Social Democratic Party has gone from being relaxed to being secretly relaxed or what is happening? Why don't you take it so we can ban these minarets? There is no need for them at all, and Islam does not even want them. You yourself refer to freedom of religion, and here we give you a good argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123130	I can see that it must be a pity if you have sat and prepared and taught yourself difficult expressions and everything else that you cannot have them used. But I did not actually refer to freedom of religion in my speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123143	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. I should just like to recommend to the audience that you are very welcome here, but you must not be blitzed from the gallery. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123155	Thank you. The proposers will introduce a ban on the construction of minarets by mosques in Denmark. I am, in fact, very, very positive about that. I remember when I worked in Afghanistan in Kabul, there was a mosque right next to the Danish embassy in Kabul. Prayer was called five times a day, and if you are not a Muslim, it is most disturbing, to say the least. That is why I am glad that we do not have this kind of thing in Denmark, and I do not want us to see it either. That is why the government is also in favour of strong action against Islamism. I think the Minister has already mentioned this, so I will not go into it in depth, but when it comes to minarets, it is not something that is decided here in the Folketing. We have municipal councils sitting around Denmark, and it is they who make decisions about and demands on the appearance and height of local buildings, and this also applies to minarets. If it were the case that the Danish People's Party had made a fully funded motion for a resolution that we should double the number of local schools at home on Lolland over the head of the municipal council, then I would say: I am very positive about that, but we have a municipal council that takes those decisions. This is not something to be decided in the Folketing. For this reason, we cannot support this proposal, because it will be directly to mess with our local city council out in Denmark. I have full confidence that the town council members from the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party who sit around Denmark will of course never make a decision that means that suddenly, as next to the Danish Embassy in Kabul, we have a minaret calling for prayer for full volume, so that it can be heard in several kilometres' circumference, five times a day. I can't imagine that's gonna happen. That is why we cannot support the proposal. At the same time, however, I would like to stress, as the Minister has also done, that we have, of course, introduced the most stringent asylum and immigration policy in parts of the territory of foreigners ever in the history of Denmark. So it's not like we're not putting in a lot of effort, but I just don't think we should go in there and interfere in what our local municipal councils have of powers. If that's what we want, then we have to settle with the entire municipal self-government, and if that's what the Danish People's Party wants, then we can talk. This is not something I would be interested in, but at least I have full confidence that our local councillors in Denmark will ensure that we do not have minarets where prayer is called. So neither do we today. That is why we are against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123431	There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123436	I note that the rapporteur thinks that the call from minarets is a very disturbing element in everyday life. Those were the words. If that is the case, will the rapporteur subsequently ban calls from a minaret if it turns out that there was a Left majority out in a municipality that decided that you could? Would the rapporteur then go in and interfere when the rapporteur now thinks that this is a very disturbing element in everyday life?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123514	I am not in favour of minarets where prayer is called, and let me just stress that I know there is not a single minaret where prayer is called from a speaker five times a day. There isn't. That is why the question put by the rapporteur is purely hypothetical. I can also turn the question to the rapporteur and ask: if all of DF's councillors were suddenly minarets fans, what would the rapporteur say? That is a completely absurd question. I cannot imagine a situation in which the Left Councillors suddenly become fans of minarets where prayer is called. So it's a complete question I don't want to say foolish question, but it's certainly a very irrelevant question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123554	After all, there are members of the Left Council who are in favour of gender-separated swimming lessons, so it is not completely out in the woods. However, I would like to repeat my question, which is not hypothetical, because as others have pointed out, you just have to go to Malmö, where prayer is called from minarets. So my question is again: if the rapporteur now thinks it is such a disturbing element, would it not be good policy in advance to ensure that it does not happen at all so that the rapporteur is not seriously disturbed in his day-to-day life if he were to meet it one day?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123631	Firstly, it is completely out there in hemp to compare Denmark's policy on foreigners and Sweden's policy on foreigners. I think if you look at the two countries that are probably the furthest apart in the European Union in this respect, it is Denmark and Sweden. So to say that something is going on in Malmö, and therefore it is going to happen on the other side of the Øresund Bridge, is of course not relevant. In relation to going in and making a hypothetical situation and saying what if all our town councils around Denmark start to allow minarets, I would say that it is not in the direction we are moving at all. We're moving in the other direction. Let us then say hypothetically that it happened that there was a town council that went out and allowed it, but then we should take a stand against the entire decision-making power of the city councils. And in that case, let's have a talk about it, but anyway, we're not there at this time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123723	The next question is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123726	Well, if you'll excuse me, this is gonna be a little pretty pretty funny. Now it has come to be about municipal autonomy, that is to say, as if we were to be opposed to the municipal self-government, it is quite baroque. It's a baroque discussion. What we are discussing is, of course, the principle of a ban on minarets, and I think that is actually a national matter. All respect for municipal councils, all respect for their freedom to deal with the situation in their municipality, but this is just a national matter. Then one might think that a ban will get in the way, but one cannot make it a discussion about municipal autonomy. Come on, get in the game!
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123809	Well, it's just a discussion about municipal self-government. At present we have local government autonomy, which has not allowed a single minaret from which prayer is called, not a single one it does not exist in Denmark. Is it not a very good sign that municipal autonomy works well and that we do not have a problem with minarets from which prayer is called? If it was the case that we had a minaret that stood in the middle of Copenhagen and disturbed, then we could take the discussion whether the local city councils have the right competences. But the problem is not, it is a fictitious problem that the Danish People's Party raises here. This is a fictitious problem because our local city council is in control of the situation. There.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123850	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123852	Now someone is sitting next to me saying that the rapporteur himself can be fictional, but I will not go that far. I think this is a rather funny discussion, because in reality it is a question of something so fundamental that it becomes a national matter. I certainly believe that what the minaret represents is totalitarian; it is oppressive, it is about social control. And I don't like everything the minaret represents. That is what we are discussing. Is this a national matter? I think it is. Religious freedom is not being rocked, but it is just being said that we do not want these symbols in public space.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113123941	Well, I share the rapporteur's concern about certain religious symbols from Islam, but if we stick to minarets from which prayer is called, then it does not exist in Denmark. Why, then, should we go in and try to make a law that will force local municipal self-government directly? It would be a mockery of the town council members who have the Left and the Danish People's Party sitting around in the municipalities. That would be to say: we do not believe that if there is a proposal for a minaret from which prayer is called, in your municipality, then you can handle the situation. So far, they've handled it fine, so why change it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124017	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124021	Thank you very much. You have to ask this hypothetical question, as indeed it is, because the rapporteur says that he is against minarets, but will not do anything about it because he thinks it is up to municipal self-government. But if you're against something that's going on somewhere, shouldn't you get involved? Well, I guess it's really enough to say that you're opposed to this. The rapporteur says: I am opposed to minarets, I do not want them because they are loud and so on. Then there could easily be a town council where you decided this. There is therefore a town council where it can be said that the left has a majority, so it could easily occur. It's not that hypothetical. Can the rapporteur not recognise this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124103	Well, listen: I can come up with a very, very long series of things that I disagree with, going on in the Middle East or in other Muslim countries that are not currently. takes place in Denmark. As long as they do not take place in Denmark, why should we start to bring legislation against them, that is, things that do not exist in Denmark? Then we could spend the whole year in here making a lot of bills on hypothetical future situations that are not currently happening. is a problem in Denmark. Is it not a little better for us to look at what are the real problems and then legislate about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124131	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124135	After all, the real problems are precisely that one is excluded and that one is subjected to social control when one is subject to Islam's rules. It has to be said that the minaret is probably the greatest symbol of power at all. So it is worth taking action with due care and also sending a signal here from the Danish Parliament saying that we do not want that in Denmark. We do not want people to be bullied in this way and subjected to social control. Can the rapporteur not accept that then?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124207	I have expressed my views on minarets, but as long as our local council members have a hundred percent control over the situation, why should we go in and get involved in it? I do not see that, especially when it is a fictitious problem, especially when there is not a single example in Denmark of a minaret from which prayer is called. Well, there isn't. Then why do we have to go in and legislate about it? I can't see that. If that is the case, then if it becomes a problem, let us take the discussion instead of pulling all sorts of fictitious issues out of the hat and saying: it is going on in Sweden, or it is going on in Jordan, or it is going on in Saudi Arabia, then let us make a law so that it will never happen in Denmark. Well, as long as our local town council has it under control, I don't see how we're gonna get involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124246	The next question is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124248	Thank you. In other words, the Folketing regulates what the municipalities do in a large number of areas. So the Folketing is already cutting into local selfgovernment in a large number of areas. That's the way it is today. I'd like to ask you some of that, sir. Marcus Knuth says. Of course, I'll sign for Mr. Simpson. Marcus Knuth is opposed to a wide range of Islamic But we have heard in here that the Left is not, and it is not, because it has to go on the Left specifically, but now it is the Left's rapporteur who is on the platform, for example. has said that gender-separated swimming lessons, based on the wish of Muslim families that girls should not be with boys when they have swimming lessons, are against the Left in here. But in Copenhagen, the Left is in favour of it. They have thus been the banner leader for this to be possible, because in Copenhagen the Left believes that it provides good integration. It would then be better if, from in here, where we have the majority, the government and the Danish People's Party, we could say clearly and clearly that there are some things that we are against and that we do not think should happen in the municipalities, and then we would be sure that this would not happen. Then there would be one-way rules across the country... it may be in relation to gender-separated swimming lessons, and it may also be in relation to the construction of minarets and to the call for prayer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124355	I do not want to repeat my argument about the municipal autonomy I think I have made that very clear. Let me try to reverse this and try to counter the rapporteur a little. The way in which this proposal from the Danish People's Party is formulated is that it is a ban on minarets. If we presented it in the wording it has here, we would not be able to do it because of the Constitution, because there is now freedom of religion. Then we'd go in and say, okay, but then we'd have to do it a lot, compared to how tall you'd have to build a building. And then you risk hitting a lot of other well-meaning suggestions that have nothing to do with minarets. That is why I say that the closer to the citizens you can solve the problem, the better it is so that the local town councils in each municipality have the opportunity to say that they want it here, and they do not want it here, instead of coming up with some broad bill that goes in and says how tall a building must be and how much you must play music and how much you must talk. Because then you risk hitting a lot of other well-meaning suggestions. So as long as the local town council has it under control, I don't see the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124506	The reason I mentioned it with swimming lessons was because there are a lot of town councils that have no control over it, despite the fact that the Left in here believes that it needs to be better managed. This is certainly a very good example of how people have not fully lived up to the expectations that are in here from Christiansborg, at least if they are to believe what the government and the Danish People's Party say. And that, I think, is actually a very good argument to say that it might well be that we should start to regulate a little more in this area. I do not believe that a ban on the construction of minarets would be contrary to the Constitution. The Constitution also limits the practice of religion, and it is also possible to refer to it, as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has said, discussing whether it has anything to do with one's religious practice, if one is a Muslim, that one has the right to perform minarets. But I would like to know whether the Left will at least be prepared to write into the legislation, that if there is a municipality that gets the idea that one should be able to call for prayer, then it should not be possible to give it permission out locally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124554	Well, first of all, I do not think that we should legislate on fictitious issues, because then we can spend an awful lot of time on it. But once again, to try to counter the rapporteur a little here, I would like to say that the rapporteur is now talking about gender-separated swimming, and if it were the case that we in the Danish Parliament said that we banned all gender-separated swimming, then there would be a lot of women's clubs quickly where it is older ladies who want to swim for themselves who would then be hit by it. That is why we say: but it is now healthiest that the decision is taken closest to the citizen. So if a local town council can go in and say that they insist that when it is a school class, boys and girls must swim together, because it is a free society, but that at the same time they allow the elderly ladies to swim alone, then we avoid broad legislation hitting people whom it is not intended to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124643	The next question is Mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124648	Thank you. The rapporteur speaks a lot about the fact that there will be no intervention in relation to fictitious problems, under the understanding that it is only on the day we have a specific problem that action will be taken. But if you look at another problem in the same ball street, namely halal meat in institutions, municipalities and regions, then this is probably a situation where, on the basis of the same theory, things were left to be until they became a problem. But now the problem has become so big that you don't want to change it. Because there we have the situation that in schools, in institutions, in hospitals, people have introduced compulsory halal meat for all people, so even that cannot be avoided. So the argument that you see a fictitious problem as a non-problem and would rather wait until the problem is fleshed out does not hold anywhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124735	I think it is very much in the case of minarets, because there is not even a proposal that is close to being approved. So, it is not even something that approaches something similar to a reality in Denmark. And when it is so far out in a hypothetical, distant future, I do not see that we need to spend the precious time we have in here to legislate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124801	What I really question is more the starting point that if we do not have a problem that is concrete, then we will not take a position on it here, understanding that it must be dealt with by municipalities and regions. Then I mention the halal situation as an example of a problem, one can say that has not been handled very well in municipalities and regions and that will not be acted upon either. So let us now assume that it became a problem with minarets in the municipalities, how can we almost trust that the rapporteur will be able to intervene against minarets?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124831	I think we should take that debate if we approach it at all. And it is not to repeat myself over and over again, but I would say that we have a municipal self-government that takes really, really, very good care of the situation. We are nowhere near having a minaret where prayer is called, and therefore I do not see that we need to spend a lot of time talking about it, that is, when it is a problem that does not exist or seems to be a problem in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124853	The next question is Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124856	I note that the rapporteur referred to this as a fictitious problem. I would like the Left to clarify what is the fictitious problem with this. I think it is a pity for the debate if the Left considers precisely this to be a fictitious problem. And then I would like to know from where the rapporteur knows that this is unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113124919	Well, if a problem doesn't exist, it's fictitious. We do not have a minaret in the kingdom of Denmark, where prayer is called five times a day from a speaker. We don't. So it's fictional. What I am saying in relation to the unconstitutional is that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections, we do not have the right to vote in local elections. Going in and forbidding mosques or minarets or a synagogue or a Catholic church alone, on the basis that we say that the religion we do not want, their symbols we do not want, it will certainly be against the right to free religious elections that we have in Denmark. So if we were to do that, it would have to be formulated in a much more turbulent way, and that is what I am saying: but with these pretty national legislations, which are going to hit an entire country, we risk hitting all sorts of others just as we risk doing with gender-separated swimming. If we say that we ban all gender-separated swimming, then we also hit a lot of old women's clubs, and that is not the intention. Therefore, the closer to the citizen you can make the decision, and it is now our municipal council, the better it is. And I trust the councilmen we have in the Left. I assume that the Danish People's Party has the same and the Social Democratic Party has the same, and therefore there is no problem. I am not familiar with being built a minaret where prayer is called.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125041	It's just for clarification. The fiction of the problem is that the minarets that are do not yet call for prayer. Think of the situation where a city council is suddenly given permission for this decision. Then it is no longer a fictitious problem, so it is a problem, one must understand. Will the Left intervene? Will the Left help to adopt a resolution like this? Then there is no longer a fictitious problem in the left, so there must be a real problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125108	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125110	I look at the problems as they arise. Well, I'm not going to stand here talking about a fictitious problem that doesn't exist. I think we've been around enough on that subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125122	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. We move on to the list of speakers, and the next is Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125132	With this proposal, the Danish People's Party wishes to ban minarets, as has been shown in the debate, and the background is, according to the comments, that minarets • and I quote • emphasize the differences between Muslims and Danes, quote the end. That's exactly what I'd like to spend a little bit of time on. Experts estimate that there are some 300,000 people living in Denmark who are Muslims, two thirds of whom are Danish citizens. So there is no contradiction between being a Muslim and being a Dane, and you can easily be both at once. In Denmark, like a large number of other countries which have acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights, we have freedom of religion. That is clear from Article 9 of the Convention. This motion for a resolution is aimed at a particular building detail, which is found only on mosques and which is not found in Hindu temples, synagogues or Christian village churches. In other words, the proposal is that one discriminates against or that one wishes to discriminate against a particular religion and its practitioners. They must be distinguished from the rest of society and have fewer rights than others. What exactly that approach to people has led to elsewhere in the world, then, does world history contain many sad examples of, and especially grotesque, when the Danish People's Party saw in their comments on this proposal that it wants to discriminate against Muslims in relation to all sorts of other religious people, it justifies the wish to integrate Muslims in Denmark. Well, even sir. Martin Henriksen pulls on the smile tape, I see. Of course, neighbors may have reason to fear that future buildings will bother the surroundings. This may apply to a planned minaret as well as to a mall, a pig farm or a village church, and of course prayer calls from a minaret, noise from a venue or buzzing church bells can be a noise blow, and I am well aware that this is quite competent for local and specific matters. It allows the law of plans and other laws to do so. There is absolutely no reason to ban minarets over other buildings. The Enhedslisten cannot support the proposal, and we really think it is sad that there are parties in Denmark which, as such, believe that one cannot be Danish and Muslim at the same time, unless one has just formulated oneself unfortunately. If that is the case, then I hope that Mr. Martin Henriksen will clarify that when Mr. Martin Henriksen goes to the platform. I'd like to say hello to you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen and say that the SF does not support the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125449	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125457	Thank you. As can be seen, the Danish People's Party wants to introduce a ban on minarets in Denmark with this proposal. After all, the debate has been up in the past, and then the Liberal Alliance was against, and the Liberal Alliance remains opposed, and we are, because we are also concerned about local self-government. We want to give the municipalities greater freedom to adapt as they wish, but, of course, with the responsibility that comes with it, and in that light, this motion for a resolution is moving in the wrong direction. There may well be things that we in the Liberal Alliance believe should be done locally and things that we do not think should be done locally, but our principle is that the best thing is for decisions to be made on local matters, and that is why, of course, we cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125550	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125607	Thank you. The proposal here from the Danish People's Party is about banning minarets in Denmark, as we have been around. It's that tower that's attached to some mosques where you can call for prayer. Like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I would like to address the explanatory statement contained in the proposal, namely: Visible and distinctive Islamic symbols contribute negatively to the development of society by emphasising the differences between Muslims and Danes. I was really sorry when I read it. I fully respect the fact that we are tabling a motion for a resolution which seeks to ban something because we do not agree with what is going on, but I am sorry that it is actually justified by the fact that there is a difference between being a Muslim and a Dane. As the Enhedslisten's rapporteur also explained so well, we have approx. 300,000 Muslims in Denmark, two thirds of whom are Danish citizens. I think that when one makes such a statement, one helps to influence things towards greater differences than I think there are, and something that I actually read out of the remarks is one of the things that DF wants to narrow. So I think that the Danish People's Party uses a explanatory statement in its proposal which is damaging to the Danish Parliament that we should be debating, and I hope that the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen will deal with this in his presentation of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125801	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125814	I can be brief, because there's been a review of this. First of all, I would like to say that we have a liberal starting point in the Radical Left, where we are against banning something that does not harm people. At any rate, there must be very good reasons for imposing bans, and I do not see any of them here at all. This is about buildings, and we believe that decisions about it and possibly the ensuing noise, which is not the case here at least can not yet be handled best municipally, just as it is done in connection with accompanying noise from all sorts of other buildings, including religious ones. So we are strongly opposed to this proposal. We find it very difficult to see that fear should be found in buildings and call for fear of it. There is very good reason to fear extremism and therefore to fight it and promote community, dialogue, understanding. We're gonna use our powers on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125927	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. And then it's sir. Naser Khader as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113125935	We do not want to call for prayer from the minarets in Denmark, and we very much agree with that. I can understand the reluctance to call for prayer from the minarets in Denmark, and I myself am opposed to that. I like it better in the Middle East, where it is part of a tradition that is charming; noise, party and trouble belong in the Middle East. But there is no call for prayer from any mosques in Denmark today either. Today's proposal from the Danish People's Party is not only about calling to prayer, but also about the appearance of the mosque. Today, your municipality must approve that there is room for a minaret on top of the mosque. I think it makes good sense that it is the people who live in the municipality who help determine it. I understand that in some places you don't want a minaret, but it's something you agree on locally. We have freedom of religion in Denmark, which is why I do not think we should legislate on what a mosque should look like. This means that today's resolution by the Danish People's Party is not about banning extreme mosques or the attitudes that are in mosques; it is primarily about appearance. If we think of attitudes, that is, extreme attitudes, we can take the example of the Grimhøjmosque. They do not have a minaret, but they have extreme positions, and these are the positions we must pursue. We have to go after hate preachers, and we have done so with the Imam Act. We need to go for cash flows. We must prevent extreme countries, organisations and foundations from financing mosques in Denmark. We need transparency about the accounts. We would like to see a preaching in Danish, etc. etc. We think this is much, much more important than discussing what a mosque should look like, which is a local matter. So we would like to use our powers where we are best opposed to extremism and fanaticism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130156	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130206	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. The Danish People's Party wishes to speak out against an increasing Islamisation of Danish society. In our view, there are mainly three reasons why we are quietly losing our country and losing our foothold. The first reason is the very violent immigration, especially from Muslim countries. The second reason is the distinction that arises when immigrants isolate themselves by establishing their own societies inside society. These parallel societies are supported by active actions that undermine the pillars on which Denmark is based. Mosques, minarets, scarf, burka and niqab etc. symbolises parallel societies and thus also helps to support them and thus also helps to support development. The third reason why we are quietly losing our country or losing our foothold is, in our view, this Parliament's unwillingness to do what is necessary. We are not trying to convince anyone that a proposal like this will solve all the problems we face, but it is one proposal among a large number of proposals. Fortunately, Parliament has approved a large number of restrictions in the area of asylum and aliens, and this has also resulted in the influx in a number of areas. It's gratifying. That's the most important thing. But there is also an increasing need to do away with the symbols which greatly divide the population. The aim of the proposal is to ensure that a ban is imposed on the construction of minarets by mosques in Denmark. Visible and distinctive Islamic symbols, in our view, contribute negatively to the development of society by emphasising the differences between Muslims and Danes, just as these symbols also hinder integration in this country. Against this background, we want to ban the construction of minarets by mosques. We would like to see a total ban on the construction of mosques and also to prevent foreign donations which finance the construction of religious and cultural symbols related to Islam. We recognise, of course, that the electorate has composed the Folketing in such a way that we stand alone with these views in this Parliament, and therefore this proposal only deals with a ban on minarets. We'd like to go further. We see this proposal as quite a balanced and mild intervention, which will help to protect Danish society from further divisions, unrest and frustration over the unwillingness to adapt on the part of Muslim communities. As a religion and ideology, Islam is a disturbing element in Denmark. We are increasingly concerned about the growing Islamicisation of society, which is why we have also welcomed the fact that a number of parties have reached an agreement which, for example, criminalises religious training in violence, repression, incest and the like. It is also clear from the Constitution that one must practice one's faith as long as it does not conflict with morality or disrupt public order. In addition to the agreement, however, there is also an increasing need to do away with the symbols which help to create divisions in Denmark and which help to strengthen the Islamic identity at a time when moderate and resident Muslims need to tone down those parts of Islam that divide and divide us. Prayer from minarets can also be called. We do not want that in the Danish People's Party. To call for prayer is also the expression of a form of social control, or to try to exercise social control over others, and we hope that the Folketing will, at least at some point, help to ensure that it will be clear from the legislation that one cannot, of course, publicly call for Muslim prayer in Denmark. It does not actually say in the legislation today that you cannot do so. Then I would also like to acknowledge that the Minister and the government, although the Minister could not support the proposal, and although the Left and a number of other parties could not support the proposal, nevertheless indicates that the government sees an increasing problem with Islamic symbols in public space. This is a view that we share in the Danish People's Party and I hope that it will at some point translate into concrete proposals and that there will also be a majority in favour of the proposals in this Chamber. It has to be the words. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130603	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130608	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for raising this debate. After all, it is no secret that I share the rapporteur's concern about minarets in Denmark. But the situation is that we do not have a single minaret in Denmark, from which prayer is called; not a single minaret, from which there is noise five times a day, which bothers the Danish citizens. This is in view of the fact that our municipalities are already doing a very good job of regulating both this issue and a lot of other issues. Now that our municipalities, our town council, are regulating this so well that it is not a problem in Denmark, does the rapporteur really think that this Parliament is the right place to have this debate in?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130654	Yes, I think so, and we in the Danish People's Party believe so, because we believe that it is a national task to keep the country together. There are already minarets in Denmark today, and one can say that the next step is that they are allowed to call for prayer. But it can also be said that all-out suits, burka and niqab, weren't even in Denmark until you had them. And that is where the Folketing did not want to intervene. So we are seeing a development in which, in several cases, I think, we are arguing against bans. They say that it is not a problem, and that view is maintained until it becomes a problem. And when it becomes a problem, you do not want to intervene, because then you argue that the problem is not so great. There we in the Danish People's Party would like to be at the forefront of the situation, and when we can see that some things have unfortunately been allowed out on the ground • sex-separated swimming lessons • there is a possibility that we are increasingly seeing that for example. the Muslim scarf is becoming more and more widespread in Danish society, also in educational institutions. We would like to take action on this before it gets under way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130754	I fully agree that, in those matters where action should be taken at national level, we must of course do so. However, as the rapporteur said in his speech just now, there is already legislation in Denmark that does not call for prayer from minarets in Denmark. There's not this disturbing element. So if there is already a town council to ensure that this does not happen, and legislation and regulation to ensure that it does not happen, is it not somewhere, with all due respect, a little waste of all our time in here to discuss something that is not a problem and which, according to the rapporteur himself, could not, if there is legislation in this area, be a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130830	But we in the Danish People's Party believe that this is a problem. We believe it is a problem that there are more and more Islamic symbols in Danish society, because it helps to divide the population into them and us. This helps to highlight the differences that lie and because in some areas they are too large, they create, so to speak, a lot of frustration on both sides. That is why we want to put an end to the Islamic symbols. And that is a problem, as there are minarets in Denmark today. There is then no call for prayer, but in reality a municipality could give permission for it, and then it would be possible. There we want legislation to come that makes it impossible and we want legislation to come that makes it impossible to construct a minaret in connection with the construction of a mosque.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130906	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130931	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113130946	The motion for a resolution requires the government to introduce a rule of proof so that EU citizens staying in Denmark are obliged to play an active role in demonstrating that the stay is legal. If this obligation to cooperate is not complied with, the proposal must make it possible to expel the EU citizen. The government fully agrees that there should be a strong focus on travelling criminals and homeless people from other EU countries, and the authorities are also very aware of the problem of such travelling foreigners. The government's position in this context is therefore quite clear: we will not accept that travelling foreigners are a nuisance, commit crime or otherwise create insecurity in Denmark. First of all, let me stress that the police can, of course, carry out foreign controls, including by EU citizens. In this context, the police may, for example, investigate whether the person has previously been arrested in Denmark or whether the person has travel documents showing when the person has entered Denmark. If it turns out against this background that a person is staying illegally in Denmark, then the person will be sent back home, and if it is not voluntarily, the police will arrange for the exit, if necessary by force. The proposers want to go further and apply a very specific documentation requirement to EU citizens. According to this documentation requirement, an EU citizen must actively prove that he or she is not staying illegally in Denmark. I would like to state straight away that the government cannot support the proposal, already because the assessment is that the proposal is in breach of EU rules, and I would like to clarify why this is so. The right of EU citizens to reside in Denmark is regulated by the Residence Directive. It expressly follows from the directive that EU citizens have the right to reside freely in an EU country for up to 3 months, and it also expressly follows from the directive that the right of residence of EU citizens is subject only to the possession of a valid passport or identity card. The Residence Directive therefore imposes only one condition on the stay of EU citizens in Denmark for a period of up to three months, namely the possession of a valid passport or identity card. The directive thus sets clear limits on what documents the authorities may require of an EU citizen. It would therefore be contrary to the Residence Directive to introduce a rule that EU citizens should actively contribute to documenting their lawful residence by, for example, to require documentary evidence of the time of entry. EU citizens who enter for work have the right to stay here for 6 months and then as long as it can be demonstrated that they are looking for work and have real opportunities for employment. The authorities may, of course, require proof that the jobseeker fulfils these conditions. However, no proof of the date of entry may be required. The abuse clause contained in the Residence Directive cannot generally be used to establish a system whereby EU citizens should actively contribute to documenting their lawful residence. The provision, on the other hand, can be used for specific cases of fraud and abuse, for example. if the person is in possession of a false passport. I fully agree with the proposers that there are problems with travelling criminals and homeless foreigners here in Denmark. For example: over the summer we saw traveling foreigners camping around on the streets and alleys, creating insecurity. The 2017 Finance Act agreed on a number of initiatives against travelling criminals and homeless people. Among other things: the parties to the agreement agree to criminalise camps that are capable of creating insecurity and to take action against organised begging. The initiatives must ensure that citizens can move safely in public spaces, and it is absolutely crucial for the government that this is the case. Finally, let me sum up the government's position: every foreigner who comes to Denmark to commit crime must be tackled with a hard hand; of course, this also applies to foreign homeless people who commit crime; and we must continue our strong and sustained focus on strengthening the authorities' efforts with regard to the problem of travelling criminals and homeless people, including from other EU countries. But that does not change the fact that we cannot support the resolution, already because it is contrary to EU law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131457	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131501	Thank you. It is also true that there are some initiatives in the Financial Law Agreement which are taking some steps in the right direction, among others. in relation to criminalising the establishment of camps. And that's a good thing. It is always possible to discuss whether or not something is contrary to EU rules. It is a question of interpretation. We have, in fact, made a little effort on the part of the Danish People's Party to ensure that it is within the framework of EU rules, so that other parties would have easier to vote in favour of it, but it has not gone quite as planned, I can see. However, I would like to ask whether the Minister believes that there is a problem with the current residence directive, whether the Minister thinks that it would be sensible enough to impose stricter requirements on EU citizens that they prove that they are allowed to be in Denmark, and whether the government will work to change the residence directive to make it easier to check whether an EU citizen actually has the right to reside in that country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131547	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131551	As far as the people who come here to look for work and, of course, have a real opportunity to be employed and subsequently have a job, I do not think there is a problem. Where I think the problem arises is precisely when we see homeless people and when we see criminals coming here. That is why we have together tightened up exactly the area of the Financial Act here for 2017. And I am very pleased that we have done so. But I actually think that one of the forces of the EU • and there, of course, we disagree • is the possibility of working in EU countries and being able to move freely in relation to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131636	This proposal is not, of course, about preventing work from taking place in another EU country. I am sure we could also make some suggestions on this from the Danish People's Party, but this proposal is not about that. This is about, for example, a Moroccan on a bench in a park that the police find and assess is not able to support themselves. Then it is relatively easy to expel him administratively. If there is an EU citizen on the same bench in the same park in exactly the same situation, the police cannot just ensure that he is expelled with assistance from the immigration authorities because there are some other rules. That is why we could basically ask: does the Minister believe that the rules that apply to the Moroccan, who is obviously unable to support himself, should also apply to the EU citizen, who is obviously unable to support himself?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131724	It is clear that there are certain privileges associated with being an EU citizen. There are, among other things: the possibility of being able to move freely and for shorter periods in other EU countries. But again: where I see the big problem is in relation to begging and to crime. So we have taken action there, and we have done so together, and I am very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131750	Thank you, Minister. We shall proceed to the list of rapporteurs. The first sir. Dan Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131804	Thank you. I can do this very briefly by saying that in this way we have a great deal of understanding and also sympathy for what is behind this proposal, namely to ensure that foreign homeless people who are not legally resident in Denmark can be deported in practice. The problem is that this has been discussed a number of times in this House that similar proposals have even been made, but it has proved to be contrary to EU law, as the Minister also explained a short time ago. So, despite the fact that we support the intentions, we must at least clarify how this could be done if we are to be able to support it. But I would ask the Danish People's Party to do so. I assume we agree that, after all, we should not break the law. Even if that law has been passed in Brussels, it must be assumed that we in the Folketing are living up to EU law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131907	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131912	Thank you. I would like to ask something which can always be clarified in committee. If this comes out in committee, and it certainly does, when the Minister has said it is contrary to the EU Residence Directive, will the Social Democratic Party take the view that it would perhaps be very sensible to work to amend the EU Residence Directive so that Denmark and other nation states will have a little better chance of exercising control? I know something like this has a long way to go. Surely it is not a question of changing the possibilities of staying in another country, but of ensuring that you actually have the right to reside in that country, according to EU rules. Then Mr. Dan Jørgensen and the Social Democratic Party are working to change the residence directive?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113131952	I certainly cannot deny that we will, but I must also say that exactly a substantive, detailed discussion of what is wrong with the residence directive is more substantial. I think it is Article 6 we are talking about here, and in isolation we can agree that we can correct it. However, there are also many other things in the Residence Directive that could work better. Just so we avoid misunderstandings, I have to state that there is a difference between what the Danish People's Party means here and what the Social Democrats mean. For my party, in fact, it is quite good that you can move freely and settle and work across borders. What is the problem here is those who are illegally staying in the country, and we want to help to ensure better conditions for combating illegal activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132035	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Marcus Knuth as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132044	The proposers will require the government to introduce rules so that EU citizens living in Denmark will in future prove themselves that they are staying here legally. If it cannot be proved, it must be possible to expel the EU citizens concerned. When I first read this, I thought, "Okay, what is this really about? And I have come to the conclusion quite quickly that this is about the concern of the Danish People's Party about the dramatic increase in the number of Roma in Denmark. In recent years we have seen more and more people in the street picture, especially in the large cities of Denmark. I would like to say that I share the concern of the Danish People's Party. I think it is a problem that these people stay and sleep on the street, sit on benches and drink during the day or sit and beg at local supermarkets. That is not the purpose of the free movement of the European Union. That is why the Left will not tolerate foreigners being a nuisance to law-abiding citizens in Denmark either. That is precisely why, in the 2017 Finance Act, we have reached agreement on, among other things. criminalise some of the camps that create insecurity, the so-called Roma camps. In addition, as the Minister said, the police can already carry out checks, and so can they. In addition, we have come up with a new reinforced response to increased begging. That's part of this problem, too. In addition, it must, of course, also be possible for the authorities to control and monitor closely the foreigners who are in Denmark. If people are staying illegally in Denmark, of course we have the opportunity to expel them. That is why I say that it is not because we do not deal with the problem. We are already doing so, and as we are already trying to tackle this problem in a wide range of different areas, I do not really see that the proposal put forward here by the proposers is relevant. Furthermore, as the Minister said, it is also contrary to EU rules. If we can do something in a way that actually also works within the framework of the European Union, and that is what we are doing here, I think that is clearly the way we should go. That is why the Left supports the idea that we must combat begging and the illegal residence of foreigners in Denmark, but let us do so within the guidelines that already exist. We are already doing so, and that is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132314	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then I give the floor to Mrs Pernille Skipper as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132328	This motion for a resolution is a motion for a resolution before us. When you read the resolution itself, it is about EU citizens, but when you read the comments, it is especially about homeless EU citizens, whom I understand the Danish People's Party finds bothersome. Firstly, I believe that it would be quite difficult in practice for all EU citizens who are not Danish citizens to run around with proof of when they have entered Denmark. This means that they must always carry a plane ticket or a train ticket or something in their pockets to document it. I think that's pretty difficult. Secondly, I also believe that it would be a waste of police time that the police, who are already heavily pressured by the border controls which the Danish People's Party insists on maintaining completely without objective reasons, are also going to check whether you as a foreign citizen have a train ticket in your pocket when you go down Strøget in Copenhagen or somewhere else. Then be what it is. What is probably the essence, and where this proposal can awaken something in me, is, of course, that I think it is a completely wrong view of some of the people who live in Danish society but who really live on the edge. And it is absolutely true that there are more foreign homeless people coming to Denmark, and especially in Copenhagen and other large cities there are very, very many people who, because of the freedom of movement within the European Union, have the opportunity and therefore take advantage of the opportunity to move from a country and a life in very, very poor conditions. Most of the people who come here hear that, if you talk to those who work with them on the street, you are people who live very badly in Eastern Europe, who have families and children, whom they try to do something about by trying their luck in Denmark. If you then delve even more into what they think, a lot of them believe a lot about the Danish labour market, which is unfortunately not realistic. They think it's gold and green forests and that they can get a job as soon as they put their feet on Danish soil and that it's easy. It's not that easy. This means that very many of them end up in an even larger social deroute. They get lost and homeless, and the money they had is spent, and then they end up on the street. A lot of them want to go home to their family, but either they are ashamed or they really don't have the money for the ticket. And you know what: The Danish social authorities must not help them! We do not have an opportunity in Denmark to say to a foreign homeless: Now you will see, now you will have a bath and some clean clothes, and then we will talk about how we can make sure that you no longer have to live on the streets of Denmark. Because none of them want to. Then they might get some advice on, if they are here legally, where in the time they must be here, there is an opportunity to look for jobs and what they can do and if they are no longer here legally, how we can help them home and make sure that they do not live on the streets of Denmark. But it's like nobody in here wants to talk about it. We can only talk about how to bother these people as much as possible. We must not talk about how to actually solve the problem both for them and for us. It is as if we should all accept such a premise that people living in homelessness in Denmark do it because they think it is awesome, because now they are foreigners and that they probably have some bad intention with it. I don't think it's okay. The Enhedslisten has very many times suggested that we should do something more to ensure that people do not live in homelessness in Denmark nor do those who are not legally resident. We have also fought to ensure that, at least as the welfare society we are, we ensure that they have a place to sleep when there is frost, because the publicly supported shelters are not even allowed to take them inside. We could start by changing that, and then we could not spend time, effort and money to hetze against them. Then we could use those powers a little more sensibly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132806	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132809	Thank you very much. The rapporteur exhibits some of these groups, for example. Roma, criminal aliens, like some poor people who can't afford to take the train home again. Honestly, these people have come here from the other end of Europe or even further away. If they've come here, I guess they can get out of here again. The rapporteur says that all these measures must be taken to help them look for jobs in Denmark, etc. etc. After all, some of the people who come to Denmark commit crime. Many of them sleep on the streets, sit up against churches here in Copenhagen drinking, some begging, which is illegal. If we start to say that we have to help them get jobs, there will only be more and more, and then the problem will get bigger and bigger.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113132901	It is simply not a correct picture to paint of all the foreign homeless who are in Denmark. They say it's just Roma sitting up the church walls drinking. I don't know what kind of a reality this is, sir. Marcus Knuth lives in. If you talk to the people who work with foreign homeless people at street level, you find out that there is in fact a very large proportion of those who come here who have a completely wrong picture of what you can do on the Danish labour market. They come here hoping to get a job. They won't get it. Some of them do, but can't get a bank account because they don't have a CPR number, and then they get stuck in some mess and lose the job again. They spend all the money they have on looking for work, and it misses, and then a social derout starts. Is there anyone who only comes here to commit crime? I am sure that is absolutely right. If you do, you have to have the punishment you deserve and, by the way, back to the EU country you live in. Of course, people shouldn't just come and commit crime. But it's something significant other than what a lot of the others who are here do. So I think we need a slightly more nuanced picture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133011	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133015	I mean, the picture I have is Roma, which, among other things, is... sitting up against churches drinking or begging, and I know it doesn't look like anyone sitting looking for work. But let's take a slightly different angle here. If you're homeless, for example. Romania, is it Romania's responsibility to take care of their homeless people and ensure that they get a job, or does the rapporteur think that all Romania's homeless people should go to Denmark, and that is Denmark's responsibility? That is what we are seeing. Each year more and more people come from, among others. Romania to live as homeless in the Danish streets, and then the rapporteur has some expectation that it is Denmark's responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133054	Honestly, I don't think that sir... Marcus Knuth heard what I was talking about. What I was talking about was making sure that the people who are here illegally and living on the street can get help getting a bath and a suit of clothes and help to get home. I was talking about the opposite. I wasn't talking about bringing anybody up here. But what I was talking about, and quite basically and fundamentally, is that we, as the Danish state, as welfare societies, naturally have a responsibility for the people who are here. This means that we should not accept that some people are dying on the street in frosty weather. It's one thing. The next step is to try to solve the problems that exist with homeless people. How do we make this smartest possible? Are there fewer homeless people out of the fact that we're hetzer? No, I do not think so, because it would be more attractive for many to come to Denmark than to be in Romania, and that is why they are trying their luck. However, we must ensure that those who want to go home can come home and that those who have illegal residence here actually come out in accordance with the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133159	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur for the long answer. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133210	Thank you. We are discussing a motion for a resolution from the Danish People's Party, which is a re-submission from 2013. In the Liberal Alliance, we fully recognise the problems identified by the Danish People's Party with the foreign homeless EU citizens. We also share the wish of the Danish People's Party to reduce the number of homeless people who are staying in the Danish parks, which are not intended or designed to make people stay in them in any way. They create insecurity, and they do, because some of them commit crime, and of course it is a key task for the Danish authorities to ensure security in our society. The Liberal Alliance therefore shares the wish of the proposers to initiate initiatives to counteract the growing problem. That is why I am also pleased that with the 2017 Finance Act, together with the Danish People's Party, we have already launched initiatives to prevent the growing problem and solve the challenge we face. After all, we have specifically agreed to criminalise camps in parks and we have agreed to take action against organised begging. We in the Liberal Alliance want to see the impact of the initiatives already decided before we discuss whether new initiatives should be launched. Therefore, at this stage we do not support the specific motion for a resolution, but, as the Danish People's Party, we are aware of these challenges and will follow developments closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133341	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133353	Thank you. This is a proposal on the participation of EU citizens in proof of legal residence in Denmark. It is a proposal made by DF. One might say that already because it appears to be contrary to EU law, the alternative is against the proposal. You have the right to stay for 3 months in Denmark. The Minister explained this very well. You have to have a valid passport, you have to have an identity card, and further evidence will not be possible. The alternative is in favour of free movement, we are in favour of the European Union, we are in favour of freedom of movement. This resolution will therefore be at odds with all this thinking, so we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133502	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133516	Thank you. We in the Radical Left think that some of the issues raised here are quite reasonable. We cannot have camping set up in parks around Europe. We cannot, of course, have an uncontrolled relationship in relation to where you stay as a homeless person and stay longer at a time, in relation to the management of garbage, etc. This is quite excellent, and some of the measures that have been taken both nationally and municipally, we support and have also been involved in. We quite clearly believe that this motion for a resolution has so many difficulties associated with it. Having to start demanding that all EU citizens be able to document their movements is, of course, roughly the same as abolishing freedom of movement, and that is very extensive and is not at all in our view the aim of the problem that we want to reduce here. So we are basically against this simply because of the substance. In addition, it has also been mentioned that it is contrary to Article 27 (1) of the EU's Residence Directive. 1, which clearly does not allow it here, precisely because it is linked to the free movement of all EU citizens. So from our side, we would much rather call on the Minister to take a broader debate on homelessness, on how we in the European Union jointly have a framework for it, and to try more to prevent and combat homelessness in all Member States, and on how we have perhaps closer and better coordinated cooperation in the fight against homelessness. This must also be the way to address and prevent this problem, in addition to the very concrete and more low-practical initiatives that we also support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133759	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then I should like to ask whether there is a SF rapporteur present in the Chamber. There is just one comment from Mr Enhedslisten's rapporteur here. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133812	I should like to welcome many times from the SF, which cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133816	Thank you very much for that greeting. Then we move on to the Conservative rapporteur, Mr. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113133823	The Danish People's Party proposes that EU citizens should actively contribute to documenting their lawful stay in Denmark. We reject the proposal because it is contrary to the EU's residence directive. Therefore, the solution of the proposers is not a solution to the problem. However, I would like to acknowledge that there is a problem. The problem is throughout Western Europe. Especially in the large capitals there is a problem, because the East Europeans are not supposed to spend the night in Copenhagen parks and collect bottles on the street. In the long term, we cannot live with the existence of a parallel society of bottle collectors living by their own rules. You don't have to spend a lifetime collecting bottles in Denmark. I believe that it is the back of EU cooperation that we cannot control who comes here and check how long they are here. But it is a Western European problem. The Residence Directive says that people can be here for three months, but it is a problem if we cannot prove that people have been here for more than three months. There should be no doubt that we in the Conservative People's Party also want to make demands on people who come here and settle in the country. In the long term, one could imagine that one is working in the direction of people who want to settle in Denmark having a duty to report both a home and a job. In other words, we share the concerns and believe that the intentions of the proposal are good, but it is clear that a solution must be found within the framework of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113134002	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then I give the floor to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113134010	Thank you for that, thank you for the debate, and thank you for the contributions from the various rapporteurs and also for the positive comments that have also been made, although there is no majority in favour of the resolution. And of course a special thanks to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radicals for also saying some positive comments on a proposal from the Danish People's Party. It's always nice. I don't know if we're on the right track or not, but at least I'd like to sign for that. If the proposal is to be adopted, the Folketing will require the government to amend the rules so that the authorities do not have to self-reprove the burden of proof of the lawful residence of an EU citizen in Denmark. On the other hand, an EU citizen must be actively involved in documenting his or her lawful residence and, if this obligation of participation is not observed by the EU citizen, its legal effect must be the administrative expulsion of Denmark. This is partly because we in the Danish People's Party think what I also mentioned in a question, I think it was to the Minister or to Mr. Dan Jørgensen states that if a Moroccan is here on a bench in a park, and it is quite obvious that he is unable to support himself, then the authorities have the opportunity to make an administrative expulsion of the person concerned relatively quickly because he has nothing to do in Denmark. He doesn't have a job and no place to live, he can't support himself. If an EU citizen is in exactly the same situation, it is actually quite difficult for the authorities to expel the person concerned administratively, although it is quite obvious that the person in question cannot take care of himself and support himself in Denmark. We'd like to change that. Today there are already provisions in the Aliens Act, in which foreigners in certain types of cases must contribute to the illumination and treatment of their own case. The Danish People's Party considers that there are strong arguments for introducing a similar intervention clause in proof of legal residence in Denmark, since in practice it is close to an impossible task for the authorities to lift the burden of proof in this type of case. On the other hand, it is much easier for the person concerned to prove his or her lawful residence, which is why, in our view, it is obvious that it is necessary to provide for the right of access to his or her case to information and proof of legal residence, which is also true of foreigners who are not covered by EU rules, but come, for example, from a third country. Basically, it must be said that it is very reasonable and reasonable that, when you as a person wish to stay in a country, you should, of course, be able to prove that the person complies with the requirements and rules that exist in order to stay in that country. In order to prevent circumvention of the provision, which merely states that the person concerned is in the country as a jobseeker and thus extends the period of legal residence for up to 6 months, this provision must also apply to EU nationals seeking employment. But again it will be the case that, for example, if a jobseeker EU citizen is in work, it is relatively easy to prove that you have a job and can support yourself. This can be done through a contact with the employer, which one must assume will be more than willing to provide evidence of legal residence in Denmark. Payrolls can act as documentation, but if you do not have a paycheck, it is clear that then you have to find another way to prove that you have the right to be here. We have tried to set up the resolution so that the EU-positive parties too can support it. We have noted that for several years there has been a debate in which politicians from both sides of the Assembly have spoken extremely critically about the fact that foreigners without legal residence and foreign homeless are increasingly creating insecurity and other problems for the authorities and law-abiding citizens. We believe that implementing the proposal will mean that the number of foreigners mentioned in Denmark and foreign homeless will decrease as a result of the need for documentation and that it will mean less public expenditure due to less crime, less clean-up in parks, etc., and it will also be easier for the police to ensure that those who are not allowed to be in Denmark are also expelled from the country. It is true that the 2017 Finance Act provides for criminalising tenants, i.e. to stay in public places. It was something that the Danish People's Party wanted to be included in the Finance Act, and a few of the rapporteurs mentioned it. It's not a crime today unless there's a sign saying you can't stay. If you forgot to put up such a sign, then you have to take a stay, and it is good to do something about it. It is also suggested that the Finance Act should make a stronger effort against organised begging, and this is also something that we in the Danish People's Party attach importance to. However, we would like to go further and see if we could not, as a start, interpret the Residence Directive a little differently, so that there will be a better opportunity to expel EU citizens who obviously cannot try themselves. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113134436	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Integration and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113134454	The debate is open, and that is Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113134515	Today we are discussing the research and innovation policy statement presented by the government. I personally believe that it is positive that we should have the opportunity to discuss the research and innovation policy situation every year. And I can say that in my world neither research nor innovation is enough on the political agenda. For my sake, it had to fill much more. Of course, there can be many explanations for this. One key reason is that research and innovation are long-term work and that the fruits of the efforts being made today cannot simply be harvested tomorrow. It can be difficult to understand in a world where everything changes very quickly, sometimes almost from hour to hour, and everything goes so fast. This does not mean that research and innovation are of less importance than what is more marked by short-term contexts. For that can be said briefly and clearly: research and innovation is the basis on which the prosperity of the future is built, it creates growth, it helps create jobs, it makes us more capable and richer, and there is every reason to continue to do so. It should be a straightforward matter to give priority to this and I firmly believe that at least all of us who are here in this Chamber today agree on it. And then it won't happen anyway. First of all, let me thank the Minister for his statement. It is good to put into words the efforts made by the government in the field of research and innovation, and then, of course, it is obvious to address the initiatives presented and, above all, what the statement does not mention in a word. Let us start there, because it has to be said that the government's statement must be seen in the light of the fact that the government has chosen to continue the cuts in research, which is cleverly avoided throughout the text. It was against the same background when we discussed last year's statement and now the situation is again the same: the government has again downgraded the research. With the 2017 Finance Act, the public research budget is set at 15.5 billion. kr. In 2015, the year before the Left Government took over, the level was 16.7 billion. Well, the SR government actually allocated a billion more than the previous one, as well as the current government has allocated for research. We are now at the lowest level since 2008, and I do not think that is to take due care for Denmark's future. The research reserve for 2017 is also severely cut. It is cuts that are felt, it can be felt, it has negative consequences, and it also leaves a greater wonder. One example of this is the Free Research Council which, as you know, will soon change its name to the Danish Free Research Foundation, but that is not what I want to talk about here. No, because in the Free Research Council you actually support original research pages. The Minister's Party, the Left, wants to cut free research. This is problematic, because free research brings us to know new problems, and it also creates solutions that we did not even imagine could happen. In 2015 542 original ideas were supported by the Free Research Council, in 2016 it was only 340 ideas. And how can a government, by the way, which is concerned with disruption and innovation, allow it? Ultimately, the cuts in billions mean that Denmark is missing out on growth, prosperity and jobs because we have not invested enough in research and innovation in time. In fact, right now, while we are here today, the educational institutions are in the process of or in the process of preparing for the dismissal of a great many employees. The Minister will probably note from the platform later that Denmark is quite right to the objective of 1%. of GDP is invested in research and that Denmark peaks when it comes to public investment in research relative to GDP. Well, he could be right about that. But I just think the picture deserves a nuance. As you know, the conclusion depends on the inter ventions and, for example, if you are going to have to do so. If Denmark's investments are compared to countries and regions, regions are important here, which have a level of prosperity equal to Denmark's, then the picture is not so beautiful. Twenty-six of the world's regions invest a greater share of GDP in research than Denmark does. There was a time when the former Foreign Minister of the Left, Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, said that statistics are like a bikini. It shows a lot, but it hides the essentials. And I think it is also very appropriate if we look at the statement and look at the GDP projections for research priorities. These are fine graphs and fine words, but the continuation of the billions savings is not mentioned with a single sentence. One can see a continuation of the billions savings here in 2017, and the obvious question is: where has the government's ambitions come from when it comes to research and innovation? So far, the answers have been top tax relief and a cash aid ceiling and an announced reduction in the SU. We have not yet seen what is in it. Yesterday, the Minister and I and the committee were on a research trip to Sweden and visited the European Spallation Source, a research infrastructure facility in which massive political investment has been made. How can we now reap the benefits of that investment when the government drains the funds for the best in the research environments, which must exploit such research facilities in the future, which has an impact on new breaks in production, materials, food and medicine? I don't know the answer, but it could be exciting to get an answer to it. It must of course be added that, for research and innovation purposes, there are also initiatives in the statement made by the Minister, and, in terms of social democratic spectacles, they are actually wise thoughts. It is only a pity that they are not intended to end, and that the savings are also allowed to overshadow infrastructure, research integrity, internationalisation and openness. These are real efforts and initiatives which are listed under the individual headings. I agree with the government that the knowledge built up in universities is allowed to be spread out in cooperation with both public authorities and companies, and that, in this way, we will create a much better optimum, the exploitation of patents and, in particular, research-based education. In the end, all the good initiatives are, unfortunately, merely overshadowed by the continuation of billion cuts, and it is just difficult to get around it. Compared to billion cuts, research and innovation are the most noticeable initiative the government has taken. I think that is the wrong way to go. It can be said that the new government is concerned with making Denmark richer. That ambition is shared by the Social Democratic Party. The only question is how the government wants us to get richer and smarter, and here the answer blows in the wind. I hope that the government thinks very well when it comes to putting research budgets for 2018 and giving priority to research, so that we can feel that this is happening together. It will lift our society, and it will make Denmark richer and more skilled. We need the world-class research we have had so far. In a year's time, as you know, we will have to do it again, and we will be here to discuss the statement. Hopefully, we will be able to discuss research and innovation there without billions of cuts overshadowing the real and substantial.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135248	Thank you very much. We have a few brief comments to make. First, it's sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135252	Thank you for that, President. I feel called upon to correct a number of statements made by the rapporteur who, in my opinion at least, were at odds with what we others call facts. The rapporteur said that the government would like to make an SU reduction, that is to say a saving on SU. The rapporteur also made it sound as if that money would go to something else. If the rapporteur has bothered to read the proposal 2025, the rapporteur will have seen that what is being taken from the grant, crown to crown, is being invested in better tax conditions for students, higher free amounts, interest-free loans and, above all, quality in universities. In short, no money goes out of that system. Then I also noticed that the rapporteur mentioned 25 regions that have invested more. The rapporteur is right to say that there is more investment in places in Luxembourg, places in Switzerland and in Silicon Valley, but when you compare Denmark with other regions of growth, it seems relatively reasonable. And I would just like to ask at the end: the rapporteur's party has been a little stingy in publishing economic plans for the party's policy. I think that the longest here in the last two years is on three pages.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135410	I'd like to say to Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt that it is a fight about words, whether you call it a cut in SU. That is the concept I am using when I look at the 2025 plan put forward by the previous government, which we have announced will soon see the light of day again, perhaps in a different disguise, I cannot say that, but that is really what we are talking about. We shall come back to that, and I look forward very much to discussing it with Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt and, by the way, the Minister, when we see it at some point. So there's a lot of good stuff waiting for us around the corner. As far as regions are concerned: well, it is true that we have to compare ourselves with the regions, that is to say, to mark them outside Denmark, because it is of no use that Denmark, as the small country it is, compares with Germany. There are also regions in the German market that invest much more in relation to their GDP than we do. So you have to go into those middle bills. With regard to what the Socialists intend to do in order to invest in research and development, I can only point out that we had a billion more to do with research and innovation when we were in government with the Radical Left, which is why we are probably going to have to prioritise again. That depends on what is left of money on the coffin floor when we get back to power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135528	To the end, there is a very easy answer. If I want to arrest the rapporteur verbally, it is simply because of a few a little humorous facts that, as far as I am aware, we have not cancelled the change of priority in our financial plans, so it makes no sense to stand on Parliament's platform and attack the government for something that we do not want to cancel ourselves. Now neither the rapporteur nor I are looking at a major educational institution, but could it be imagined that a learning system could be implemented that would make teachers' preparation more efficient and, at the same time, also reduce the amount of time needed to save resources without compromising quality? I was involved in this myself in my last job, and it is, in fact, just to challenge the view that the rapporteur does not believe that something more effective can be done year after year. We think you can do that in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135615	I do not think I mentioned anything at all in my speech about efficiency in running an educational institution. I'm just like Mr. Knox. Jakob Engel-Schmidt is always interested in looking at how things can be done better and more efficiently and how we can improve the quality of our higher education institutions and our research environments, but today that is not exactly what we are discussing. We will certainly come back to that at some point here in the near future. I would just like to rely on the fact that we are discussing the research and innovation report, and it is in this version that I challenge the fact that there have been billions of cuts, which are precisely reducing quality and research-based training.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135653	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135657	I was delighted when I heard the rapporteur talking about research and innovation as something that has a very long-term perspective, something that is beyond daily controversy, and that is why, of course, I was less happy when I heard the rapporteur falling directly into daily polemics and talking about the situation in Denmark. On page 3 of the statement, there are some descriptions of the situation in the OECD, and the whole of the 2006 globalisation agreement came from a thinking which was quite common in the OECD at that time. So at the same time as we lost our breath, they've also lost their breath. So what is the rapporteur's explanation for the fact that the strategies pursued ten years ago, sooner or later, lead to countries also losing investment breath?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135750	I would say that from the start these measurements began to be carried out, because, as Mr. Henrik Dahl rightly refers to, about 10 years ago, has the world, Europe, Denmark and the countries that we among others. compares us with those lists, in the intervening period actually went through a rather significant financial crisis. Social democracy, when we are in government, has always taken the view that, regardless of whether we have times of recession or crisis, we want to invest at least 1%. of GDP in research and education in particular. In relation to the graph on page 3 of the statement, which is highlighted here by Henrik Dahl, I would like to point out that the most important thing is to spread it a little more out and look at the middle bills and look at how we, among other things, are. can compare us with the individual regions, which are also included in the OECD countries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135844	Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135845	This is a rather strange answer, which is not based on what the graph actually looks like, because you cannot see that there has been a world crisis on the graph showing investment in Denmark. It is completely invisible, and it does serve changing governments to great honor. So I am trying again: what could be the reason why the expansion strategies that we had ten years ago prove economically unsustainable for a large number of countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135911	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135913	I am absolutely convinced that in this context the answer will be legal. There are many factors involved, and they can actually lead to an answer, depending on the path one takes. In this context, I would just like to say that I still believe that different regional considerations have been taken into account, and this has made it appear in a different way than could be predicted at that time ten years ago when this measurement was started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135942	We thank Mrs Mette Reissmann and move on to the rapporteur's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113135953	Thank you. As Mrs Mette Reissmann has just mentioned, some of us were on a trip to Lund yesterday, and we all managed to go both one way and the other, despite border controls, and what else could happen on the road. It was the Education and Research Committee as well as the Minister who was over there to look at the impressive ESS and MAX IV installations, which play together with additional facilities in Germany at Hamburg, and in Aarhus and elsewhere. The ESS has been created in cooperation between Denmark and Sweden and has been chosen by the EU as a joint project for a large number of EU countries. It is a project for many billions, where Denmark invests approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. It is certainly the largest amount Denmark has ever put in a research installation, and it has undoubtedly great prospects. It was hard not to get caught when we were over there. And I am also sure that it will be a good business if we know how to take advantage of the opportunities in it. And do we do that? Maybe not quite. In connection with the visit it was among other things. discussed whether we have the necessary flexibility in our research environment, whether we have the necessary courage. Jens Christians Skov's research and Nobel Prize were mentioned as something that could be further researched with the new plants. But it also gave rise to a discussion of whether the slightly random shifts that were in his research would be accepted at all today. One of the scientists who was with me told me that if it had happened today with the shifts he made, he would have been fired. And it tells me that our system has somehow become a bit too management-like. It is managed so much by scientists who have to obtain their funds and by the priority of money that there is poor room for the different, the new, the epoch-making. Perhaps we are marked by a time of a globalisation agreement where, although there was a great deal of money, there was also a quantity of thinking which today presents us with some quality problems. That is why I was also confirmed yesterday that we must have a quality agenda and that we must tackle and change the discourse that has been there for the last 15 years. And it's probably gonna take 15 years to turn it around. It's quite a supertanker we have to turn around, but we have to start. This means, in my view, that we must put an agenda with quality in the driver's seat and then perhaps cut the quantity so that it fits in with the means we can find for it. We need to establish long-term objectives based on quality and with built-in stability and security in relation to the appropriations. I would like our appropriations to be linked to a quality assessment not only did I want to see it, I actually think it is essential for us to be able to bring about the shift and the change of course that is necessary. Then we can also simplify, and then we can debureaucratize. Because we need our money smarter than we do today. I was sitting the other day reading my rapporteur's speech to this debate last year and, unfortunately, I was able to hold it back in broad terms today, because little has happened in relation to what I was talking about when it came to gathering and coordinating interventions. We still have development and demonstration programmes in various ministries, we have the Market Development Fund, we have the Growth Fund in the Ministry of Business, we have innovation agents, innovation environments and information networks, GTS institutes, regional growth forums, municipal greenhouses and much, much more. It is all programmes, funds and schemes that have different objectives, different budgets, and they all have good and legitimate objectives of advising and supporting development and research, but they are also overlapping and difficult to understand. Perhaps this year we could tackle simplifying the system! When you look at today's report, you can see that both the ESS and the programmes just mentioned are mentioned here. Another point in the statement that I wish to make in my speech today is paragraph 2. Open Science. There is no doubt that there may be a great value in easier access to research results, but I wonder when I read that it says: "There is thus the potential for research to become more democratic, efficient, transparent and responsive to the major challenges facing society. Research is becoming more democratic, it says. But I'm not sure I want democratic research. I think I want excellent research. We can set a democratic objective and direction for what we want to support, and we can give priority to the funds, but research must not be democratic. Then we could prove democratically by a majority that the earth is flat. This brings me to a field of concern in relation to Open Science, namely that before we get caught up in everything we can, we ensure that we stick to the fact that not everyone is researchers and that not everything in Wikipedia is research-based, and thus insists that all created data is not research. It is not because I think that some people mean it, but when it says under Open Data in the statement that more people than ever can be qualified for research, carry out research and use the results for their own purposes, I think that it may well be that data and data are created and used, but at the same time we must be careful that we do not create a system that compromises research by mixing it up with all sorts of other results. We need to secure a system that also has room for a Jens Christian Skov. And so I will take note of the statement and welcome the fact that the Minister says in the foreword that the ambition of Danish research is the highest quality. Here, at least, we have a common starting point for further work. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113140601	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Next in line, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113140617	Thank you for the floor. Thank you to the Minister for his statement, which I think contains a great deal of interesting cuts and information, which it is good to have the opportunity to discuss today. Research and innovation are undoubtedly an important foundation for our society. It is a foundation that, through the creation of new knowledge, allows for better welfare, better social institutions, better jobs for the benefit of the whole of Denmark. That is why it is naturally an important task for every government to ensure that our innovation environments are improved and that the way we research is more effective and more targeted without being restricted. In 2017, a total of 21.5 billion has been committed. kr. for research, which corresponds to 1.03%. of GDP. I think that is a solid financial backlash with which I personally am very pleased. A few interesting impact points in the statement are also that of the countries with which we compare, we are in second place when it comes to the number of scientific publications per year. citizen. I think that's great. At the same time, the statement shows that we are very good at transforming the knowledge we are researching into and developing into patents and jobs. We should perhaps be better at targeting the innovation environments, but there is also potential. If you're targeting the EU Innovation Union Scoreboard, you'll see that we're the third most innovative country in 2016. In fact, I think there is reason to be proud of that too. After all, it is not a job created only by the current or previous government. This is to work in which most of the Danish Parliament's parties have participated. It is also therefore a shared joy that I think we should enjoy and be proud of it. I also think that there are times when the opposition is making very good efforts to make the government look like a government that is working solely to save and cut back and actually does not care about this area. Sometimes I get a little upset because it's actually wrong. As I said in one of the previous questions to Mrs Mette Reissmann, I do not think it is always just about the exact amount. It is also about what you get out of the money that is invested. There, I think, the statement in many areas demonstrates that we are really capable as a nation of making a great deal of money out of the funds invested in research and innovation. We should be proud of that. I also hope that this may be a little outside the curriculum, but I would like to say it from the platform anyway, given that the economy is getting better and the growth plans we hope to adopt jointly will once again give impetus to the economy, that there will be room for us to pick up on the globalisation agreement that was concluded for the first time back in 2006 and, together with the breadth of the parliamentary parties, to help formulate far-reaching and far-reaching ambitions for the future. In fact, I think we owe that to future generations. We owe this to the Danes, who may be concerned that their workplace may become less durable, as innovation and disruption help challenge industries and also help create new industries. But the truth is that Denmark invests a lot of money in public research and innovation. It is clear from the statement that we are one of the countries that invests the most, so I do not think that the opposition is always right in criticising the fact that in this way we are merely an administration that helps to cut back. In fact, we are also an administration that helps promote good Danish research, I think, and helps make the best of the funds invested in our common knowledge. I am also pleased to read in the statement that there is a focus on taking an active part in this work on more open science. I think that is incredibly important. In English they call it open science. It's no surprise. As the name indicates, the goal is to increase accessibility for citizens, businesses and users, so that we spread this knowledge, more transparency and a significantly larger audience in the future. It's also one of the ambivalens you find in this area. There is very specialized research that is very specialised knowledge, which can actually benefit really large groups, but which is not always easily accessible. We should work to do even better. It is probably no surprise that, in this context, I am able to agree with the statement and, moreover, look forward to the debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141054	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141059	Thank you. 75% The ideas supported by the Free Research Council are ideas which materialise in what we call the wet areas, in other words in the field of science, and of those ideas there are, in fact, 35% devoted to technological research, which the Social Democratic Party at least supports very much. Now the rapporteur says, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt that he is personally satisfied with the financial resources currently available. allocated to research in Denmark. I'm gonna see that right now. let remain uncommented. Now that we're looking at the amount of money the government currently has. has devoted to research, is the lowest since 2008, I would like to know whether Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt is proud and personally satisfied with the decline that we are now seeing, where the number of ideas supported by the Free Research Council has fallen as significantly as it is, in fact close to 50%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141202	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141205	I take the view that if it is possible to invest more money in research and innovation, I would like to contribute to that. Unlike the rapporteur, I was not involved in the conciliation which took away some funds a few years ago from the Free Research Council, but I was involved a few months ago in the implementation of the research reserve which is helping to give the Free Research Council more funding. And I also know that I share more ambition with the rapporteur to help turn the funds into the research reserve, so that there will be more funding for, among other things. technical research. But it is always easy as rapporteur, especially from an opposition party, to be critical and to point out that things are not good enough or that things are at an indecent level. The criticism might sound a little more substantial and more credible if it were to be the case that the plans published by the Social Democratic Party also took account of reinvesting their higher levels. The rapporteur must excuse me for not taking this very seriously, because this does not prove to be the case in the financial publications published by the Danish Royal Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141313	Now it is always easier to stand and gloat and, by the way, not take things seriously. I think this is something that should be taken very seriously. And I would like to say to that about enough money that this is, of course, a matter of political priority. I can only note that the government wants to give priority to tax cuts and other things which at least take account of some areas that the Social Democrats do not support. I would like to ask the rapporteur: how, as stated in the statement, can we maintain a continuing high level of Danish research when we cut significantly the funds that enable us to support the most talented researchers and their excellent research? I simply do not understand that. The government and the rapporteur continue to say that you can get quality for DKK 0. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141358	I just think there's a very big difference between 0 kroner. and 21.6 billion. kr. That must be my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141405	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on to Mr. Bruno Jerup as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113141419	Thank you. It is calculated here that our research funding amounts to 1.03%. of our GDP, so that we, like ourselves, meet some objective that has been set. Perhaps I think that figure has been slightly turned up, because if you look at it in relation to research, you can see that various parts have been taken under the hat, which can only be called research. Another part of it is also that it is not clear from the statement how much of the funds called research funds are used in what I would call basic research. The Enhedslisten believes that basic research is a very important part of research. The X-ray diffraction, for example. user at MAX IV in Lund, was actually developed 105 years ago, i.e. in 1912-13. At that time it was not developed with any idea that it could be used in any commercial context, not at all, and now it is with the commercial as a driving force. But now you can do that on MAX IV. Nor was the discovery of the neutron in 1932 by Chadwick an expression of commercial target research, and there was no knowledge at that time that the neutron would be decisive for the development of a bomb, namely a nuclear bomb. You didn't even have that word. Nor was there any knowledge that 80 years later in Lund in Sweden in the ESS project, the neutron would be used as an important means of microscopic depth. That is one of the points we want to make, namely the importance of basic research, that is to say that we are researching without knowing whether what we find out is something that can be used commercially. You may not even have an idea of what it can be used for. But there is little chance of that being the feedback from all scientists. It also appeared in Lund, where there was a speech by Henrik Jørgen Andersen from Arla. He had as one of his main points that there is really no possibility of doing basic research today with the way in which researchers are allocated their funds. If you look at the statement made by the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council, you can also see that they write that the basic funds are gradually so reduced that they only cover such general operations and salaries in the research units. That means that there is really no room for any real research. So the feedback we get, both from the business community and from those who need to use this research, but also from the researchers themselves and from the Danish Research Council, is that it looks really, really bad with the possibilities of doing real basic research, and I think it is a shortcoming in this explanation that we do not relate to the problem, so that the way we have screwed up our research system, the way it's all worked out, both in terms of the funds we have allocated from the state and the things that need to be applied for in different funds and different programmes, has thus helped to hollow out and tone down basic research. The second part of the report describes a new break to be developed in research and innovation with open science. The open approach to scientific publications and the fact that there are open data and, in general, transparency in research, Enhedslisten backs up a hundred percent, and I might as a side remark just say that this is an area in which the Folketing and ministers can take the lead. In connection with the political work of the Danish Parliament, where for example: It is essential that there should be no clauses restricting public knowledge of these reports and analyses. We also need to ensure that researchers working with these analyses and reports have full freedom of expression so that they are free to express their views on them and that other researchers can make critical comments and, for example, on them. criticises the use of selective results and selective reports as the basis for our parliamentary legislative work. Another point is that there is also a comment in the report on the Committee on Scientific Injustice, and it says that the rules need to be revised. I assume that what needs to be revised is the Danish Code of Conduct for the integrity of research from 5 November 2014. Because it has to be seen in the light of the fact that on 27 January 2015 UVVU dropped their guidance from 2009, and that they lean on the Danish Code of Conduct for Research Integrity, but there are also funds for that. But it may be that the Minister himself can go into it and expand it a little bit. It says, at least, that we are expected to have a legislative text here in January, when we have to deal with it. However, the last part of the statement, that is to say the whole discussion about moving towards much greater openness in research, is, as I said, a very good point which Enhedslisten supports a hundred percent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113142045	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113142054	Of course, the Liberal Alliance takes note of the research and innovation policy statement. In the year that has passed since we last discussed a research policy statement, there have been many discussions about the level of investment in research and development, and there are also today. That is why I think it is good to have proof that Denmark is sacrificing exactly the same thing on research and development that we have always done, namely a fortune. The value of the assets that are disposed of may be slightly larger or slightly smaller on the decimal places from year to year, but a fortune is nevertheless what is at issue. I think that's good. Research and development are crucial to society in many different ways. That is why I am pleased that there is such broad support in the Folketing for the fact that exactly a fortune is an appropriate level. With regard to Chapter 2 of the open science report, new ideas and ideas must be accepted with open mind. So although open science, when fully developed, is not quite unproblematic, the things the government is aiming for are extremely good. Open access to scientific publications and open access to data and transparent research procedures are some good initiatives that we support. However, the open approach to scientific publications is not entirely problematic. Today, publications are widely distributed through commercially based journals. If we impose openness politically without having it in mind, we risk destroying a healthy business that has worked for decades, so of course we would urge that we pay close attention to that. The model being proposed recognises the issue and tries to ensure that public initiatives do not help to destroy an otherwise well-run business that has a healthy business model, and this is positive. With regard to the treatment of scientific innocence, we are pleased to note in the Liberal Alliance that we are aware of the fact that there should be no legalisation of actual scientific disagreements. Scientific disagreements must and should be decided by the scientific community by means of the methods and processes which have been established for many, many years. Where there is a need for institutions other than those provided by the scientific community is when there is a suspicion of actual fraud. On the other hand, it is important and it is also the lead that we are following now that we ensure that controversial but honest researchers do not risk being threatened with silence by groundless accusations of being dishonest. Finally, I should like to take this opportunity to say a few words about the prospects for Danish research, which goes a little further than the research and innovation policy statement. I think that is also appropriate. In my view, the economic slowdown in 2016 showed a weakness in the 2006 globalisation agreement. It was an agreement based on a condition which was not stated but which was present, namely a condition of eternal expansion. Without sustained economic expansion, the logic of the globalisation agreement broke because it was largely a quantitative logic. There were to be more into the studies, more were to be hatched, more were to go on and have a PhD or a postdoc, and therefore the political struggle also became a quantitative battle. When a new government came in 2011, it set up target numbers. That's how they tried to trump the predecessors. What was neglected under this quantitative regime by several governments was, of course, to a large extent to discuss quality. What happens to the quality of education when you raise the level of attendance, what happens to the demand for candidates when you raise the level of supply? It shouldn't come as a surprise, but it did, and can it at all provide qualified teachers when you raise occupied so strongly? Some of the problems I mention here began with the then government in 2013 when the Quality Committee was set up under the leadership of Jørgen Søndergaard. I think it was inspired by a case of a lack of quality in an education in Aalborg, which I myself had travelled in Weekendavisen, but I must hurry to say that I am not going to take credit for the decision. It was of course the then research minister Morten Østergaard who is to be commended for this initiative. However, when the Søndergaard committee delivered its report in 2015, there was a great deal of criticism. Some initiatives were also taken which met some of the criticisms. Then I think it happened, that there was simply a choice and a general confusion, and then the Søndergaard Committee was forgotten, even though many people actually thought it was quite good. And there is, in fact, quite a broad consensus in the field of research policy. That is why I think it is good and I am now approaching a conclusion that, with due care in mind, we could start discussing: could we at some point, which is not too far off in the future, start discussing whether the parties responsible for the first globalisation agreement should make a globalisation agreement 2.0? This is, of course, something that needs to be prepared very carefully. These are clearly some preliminary discussions, but if one came to the conclusion that such a globalisation agreement 2.0 could be a good idea, I would certainly say something about the things that we would then be playing into this discussion, which we would of course go to with an open mind. I think it is necessary to state that universities are critical institutions of society which must take care of the free and critical, rational conversation in society. I think that some initiatives must be taken to debureaucratize the university sector, which is plagued by terrible bureaucracy. I also think it must be stated that the role of the state in relation to universities is patient money, and I hear that Enhedslisten also says so, that is, patient money, which does not have an investment horizon of 3-5 years, but a horizon that goes much, much further. I also think that we need to look at a very thorough reform of appropriations of some kind. I have mentioned in the non-binding forum called a journal article that for a very long time we could consider making funds which were in fact those which were the economic base of the universities. But whether this can be done in a political reality, of course I do not know, that must be discussed. And then, of course, universities should be liberalised so that they themselves determine their study structure and their admission criteria, recruitment structure, pay structure, etc. It's purely future music, what I'm saying. I say this, as I said, in the light of the fact that the globalisation agreement one was a very good agreement that lasted for 10 years, but which had some weaknesses built into it as we arrived at in 2015. They have been analysed by the Søndergaard Committee and we have also talked about them in this forum many times, but on the basis of all these things the old parties could perhaps consider whether in the not too distant future they should start to sit down and talk about a globalisation agreement 2.0. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113142857	There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113142901	Thank you. I'm like sir, too. Henrik Dahl is concerned about the quality of our research environments and our higher education, and I am happy to discuss it with the Liberal Alliance and Mr. Henrik Dahl continues on how we can optimize precisely those things. Yesterday we were together on a trip to Sweden, to Lund, and by the way also just outside Lund, to visit the ESS. It was incredibly exciting. And in my speech I also touched on my concern about precisely the massive investments that have been made by Denmark and Sweden in this research infrastructure facility, which is also mentioned in the statement. I'm just gonna ask sir. Henrik Dahl, how Mr. Henrik Dahl believes that we should be able to reap the benefits of the massive investment that we have made when, with the other hand, we are able to reap the benefits of the massive investment that we have made. Henrik Dahl's own party is also now fully draining the financial foundations of talented researchers in our research environments. In other words, these facilities, which we looked at yesterday, are at least the foundation stone for them to stand completely untouched. How are the two things connected in Mr. Henrik Dahl's universe?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143014	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143017	1% It is not a question of pennies, and that is why I must also protest against the idea that the sector is being starved and drained in such a way. The Barcelona objective is being met, and many of us think it is a very good idea. But the government's strategy is to increase gross domestic product. By the increase in gross domestic product, 1% of GDP will come from the United Kingdom. of a much larger amount also be a larger amount. That goes without saying. So there is, of course, an automatically built into the Barcelona objective, which means that if you succeed in what you hope to do with the strategy of raising GDP, in other words getting more growth, then of course there will also be more money for the university sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143102	I'd say that's something of a long-term prophecy. After all, we have a budget that goes year by year in this country, and so do the research budgets, and that is what people do in educational establishments. They must therefore lie and plan into an empty box where they have no opportunity, like planning much more carefully than if one were to follow the philosophy of the Liberal Alliance. I would like to ask about the fact that the Danish Research and Innovation Policy Council points to a so-called hourglass effect, where it is so that it means that the funds for researchers are greatest at the bottom and at the top. Then, of course, there is a need for funding for those scientists who, after all, are in the middle, if you may say so, of the hourglass. This means that we cannot get the talented researchers to move forward in the system, and Denmark is potentially losing a great talent mass. How, then, does it harmonize with the big savings? Thank you! ) exactly on the Free Research Council, as Mr. Henrik Dahl has previously strongly supported?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143156	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143159	After all, Danish researchers and research administrators can plan with serenity on the basis that the government intends to comply with the Barcelona objective, so there will not be these crazy fluctuations, which are just built into the issue. Then I would say that I said in my speech that there has been a logic built into the system so that it has only been able to function under expansive conditions. And it cannot be right that one can only act when there is expansion. It is also necessary to understand that there can be no guarantee of everlasting expansion everywhere. That's impossible. You have to be professional enough to fit in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143236	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113143246	Thank you. Sometimes it is a blessing to come up here after the Liberal Alliance when we talk about educational policy issues, because it is the same way that we disagree with the Liberal Alliance in some areas, just as we can be in other areas, and some of those things, Mr President. Henrik Dahl mentioned at the end of his speech, we fully agree with the rapporteur. Yes to much more freedom of universities, yes to patient money and yes to the debureaucratisation of the research and education institutions we have in our country. So on that front one can be pleased that the Liberal Alliance is part of our government, insofar as it is blue, in terms of being able to influence exactly the aspects in which we are in any case very much in agreement with the Liberal Alliance. I wonder: what is the real problem that the government is trying to solve in relation to the research agenda and with this statement? The statement is the government's idea of how research and innovation can contribute to addressing major societal challenges. The Minister writes this on page 1. The Minister also writes that research and innovation must provide new knowledge and new opportunities and thus act as an essential driving force for society. It's on page two. We fully agree with that in the alternative. In relation to the section on integrity, transparency and the role of politics in relation to science, we welcome the Government's intentions for more openness in the access to data and the production of knowledge. I do not think it should be a secret that, in the alternative, we have a major focus on the transparency of political processes at all, and we will follow with great interest the analyses and experience of open data and publications in relation to the public and in relation to clarifying the impact and impact of private funds on research. At the same time, it is our impression that the scientific communities are able to catch the stingy vessels that may sometimes be out there, and that is why we must also be careful how much we interfere politically with the nature of research. When we try politically to control science, we must bear in mind that it is not all research that can be standardized to the same extent as quantitative data sets, and therefore the scientific communities in the various disciplines must be very much involved in defining its quality and also in defining how it is ensured. Here I agree with the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance that there is a need for a quality discussion in relation to what we really are measuring quality in research. In the statement, the Minister also writes that researchers may publish untrue and unfair research in order to promote their careers. It's on page 9. To this it must be said that, as politicians, we have a responsibility in relation to the structures we have created ourselves, which support the research culture that is out there and the research culture that is out there right now, is, unfortunately, a culture in which results in the short term and with great enthusiasm promote careers and where competition for research funds is an excessive and also very culturally damaging part of the researchers' daily work. So the equivalent is not necessarily to have more control by political teams, but it is to create the framework for a research culture where it is recognised that the major breakthroughs require time, that they require a clear and free framework, and that they require security and courage to take chances, and we do not give that to our researchers when we expose them to the conditions we are doing today, where they must constantly compete for the same means. Therefore, when I read that on page 11 of the statement, the Minister writes that a committee has been set up to draw up an analysis to examine the possibility of assessing the socio-economic effects of public investment in research. This is pure from research to invoice, because it is precisely here that we see an example of thinking that research can only be measured in financial means, i.e. in dollars and cents. We believe that such an approach is clearly counterproductive to the nature of research. Once we have shown our confidence in the researchers by distributing public funds to them, we, too, as politicians, must take a step back and rely on them to manage the funds they have actually applied for. They may have some scientific publications in connection with a research work which has shown that they are ready and able to take that money. So even if research does not bring any real socio-economic gain, research often brings benefits on other parameters, so we need to improve our knowledge of how to recognize them. In relation to gender and talent development, which is also a section of the statement, I would like to say that we share the Government's ambition to bring the best talents into play regardless of gender. It is on page 12 of the statement. And this talent barometer, which has been introduced, can hopefully act as a lever for universities to work on how we get a relatively good distribution of gender in research. We would be very happy to engage in any further cooperation in this area from the point of view of the alternative. Denmark is a small country and therefore we are also committed to creating the conditions for everyone, regardless of gender or other parameters, to unfold their talent in the most meaningful way. That is why it is no use looking at research in isolation when we talk about talent, because a prerequisite for the good researcher is good education. And there I just have to vote in the votes that have been in the past, among others. on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament has tabled a motion for a resolution on the need for good education and training, which is why it is really sad that the current government has chosen to cut education as massively as it has. Another question is how we maintain the talent. This is of course interesting because, unfortunately, in recent years in Denmark we have seen some of our best researchers apply abroad, and they do so quite clearly, because, as I said before, it is simply almost hopeless working conditions that you get when you have to constantly apply for funds and do not have time and space for what you really want to research. Eske Willerslev spends half of his time in London, where he is employed. Anders Holm, one of my old professors from sociology, is sitting in Canada right now and has chosen to move there simply to get better research conditions. We have a crazy lot to live up to in Denmark. Then we can ask ourselves how we do it. We have a very specific proposal which states that perhaps we should recognise some of the talented researchers we have. Once you have got funds, you have produced some research that shows a great talent, it was perhaps an idea that we say to the researchers: okay, you get, let's say 5 years, perhaps 8 years of money, research funding, without us making any counterclaims, but we trust that you can actually go out and do a good piece of research work. So here is our trust in you: Here you are working for them, and you may research what you want, and you may find the research you want. I think we need that. I think we, as politicians, need to show our researchers the confidence that we trust them and give them some money for some long-term research so that they do not have to spend their time constantly competing for funds. I think we would do that if we wanted to see research as free and innovative, solid and full of quality. Research, as the government also mentions, can help solve the major challenges facing society. In the alternative, we believe that in order to meet the challenges we face, for example. The climate crisis has to dare to imagine a radically different society. What does it really take to imagine a radically different society? It requires that we are willing to take risks, that we are willing to explore unknown land, that we are willing to imagine socialutopias, which may not happen, but which may do. Courage is just not something that the individual has, courage is also something that we must support politically, among other things. here in our research policy in Denmark. And we in the Danish Parliament can create the framework for the best researchers and scientists to have the opportunity to take this leap into the unknown country. In this statement, the government focuses on recovery. As I mentioned before, it is a lot about socio-economic recovery. We would also like to see recovery in the alternative, but in research and innovation contexts it is useless to think that we can steer towards the future in a completely linear way only on economic terms. Research is a creative process, it cannot be predicted, and the results most often appear out of the most unexpected. Therefore, and now I know it will be a little bit controversial, we actually believe that the research will have to be largely freed, in other words that the vast majority of our research in Denmark will have to be freed. Free research is useful because it makes room for error, allows room for reflection, and allows room for unexpected results to appear. We mentioned earlier that one of our own Nobel Prize winners would certainly have been fired if it had been today, he had been a researcher and had come up with his results. Free research will, we believe, come up with solutions to the main challenges facing society, simply because research itself will seek solutions to the current and most pressing challenges facing society that we face at all times. In addition, free research will also provide more space for some of the sciences that are a little crowded into the humanities, the social sciences, the spiritual sciences too, for that matter, which will not get much space in our research landscape today. This is a little missing from this statement. In the alternative, we also lack the imagination and vision that will help research and innovation to support a sustainable society that is not only driven by small improvements to what we know today, but which is working quite purposefully on a very entrepreneurial, progressive research environment in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144249	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144254	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I became a little interested when the rapporteur remarked on several occasions that it is problematic from the point of view of the alternative that researchers have to seek funds to a large extent and often have to do so in competition with other researchers. And I will follow the rapporteur's criticism so far that, to the extent that the rates of recognition are very small, I clearly find reason to point out that there is at least a great deal of wasted work. I was so uneasy when the rapporteur mentioned a solution a little a la Statens Kunstråde, where you can give such not lifelong but 10-year appropriations without making the very big demands. Does the rapporteur see any other way of resolving this problem? Or is it more of a problem that the rapporteur notes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144347	But this is, of course, a problem which I note and the solution that we find most obvious is a solution which is simply about regaining confidence in our researchers. I am not saying that we should give carte blanche to anyone who addresses for the first time, but do so if we have researchers like Eske Willerslev. Eske Willerslev is an excellent example of the fact that you still have to fight for your research money in Denmark. He is a recognized researcher all over the world, and he still has to fight away on an equal footing with colleagues who, by the way, are each other's worst competitors in order to obtain funding for his research, and I do not think we can be familiar with that. So why not tell some of the best scientists we have: here you go. Here you have a period of free research. We simply believe that it will lead to better research.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144433	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144436	Yes, of course, it is a sincere and interesting attitude. So, I do not think it is in itself problematic that we are also asking our best researchers to write applications that make it clear why they need funding for this particular project, precisely to ensure that the best idea wins. It will be problematic to the extent that the size of the funds does not match the size of the applications. The Free Research Council, which soon changes its name, and we are going to get used to it, has made a model, after which you can search so many times, and are the ideas sufficiently vague, well then you are out of the pot. One might consider introducing a similar principle broader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144520	I cannot deny that, but I would like to take a closer look at it. It's not something we've dealt with, so I'm not gonna stand up here and say yes or no to one thing or the other. It could be an element that it might be interesting to look at. I just think the most important thing is that we recognise that the talented researchers that we have who have proven that they are talented need to spend their time researching and not writing new applications all the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144539	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113144550	Thank you. It's great to have a Friday afternoon for a research debate. It is not often that we take them, and I am not quite sure how many come with them out there, but hopefully they are some. Those about whom this may be particularly important are the ones who are researching. But it's kind of about all of us. That is why I would very much like to start with a positive tone. In fact, I generally hope that the spirit and tone are positive, and I will mention the particularly positive thing from the Minister's statement. Because I can see that the Minister of Research's words to the contrary continue the ambition of open science, open science, which I launched as a minister. Open research, open access to scientific articles, of course with the discussions on a framework that is in full swing at European level and also at home, and open access to data so that we can all become wiser all the time. This is the future of excellent research. I am absolutely convinced of that. Those who don't want it are the ones who lose. But there are also some who have to take the lead, and some who have to show the direction and find the right framework for this, and it won't be something we can do in Denmark alone. This is a debate which is very much taking place in the European Union, and I have great hopes that the Minister will push it forward in relation to the Minister's allied himself with the good, progressive forces that are in Europe, whether it is the model where you have a commercial foundation or a more public and open model. I think we can find a future that has room for both. That may sound technical, but it is basically a democratisation of research as well. It is not a question of everything being research, not at all, but, on the contrary, of much, much more having access to what we in most of Europe have funded for taxpayers' money and which we should also share with much, much more, because of this we are going to have more new ideas that come out and touch much more on what people are dealing with every day. This will require, Minister, as much diligence and work as I am sure the Minister will do. Unfortunately, it is also the case with the work that cannot be seen, that it will take a very long time before it is recognised, and then we will not be standing here anymore. But how important it is, and we do not need to pursue party politics on that. This calls for broad political initiatives from this point of view, including in Europe. Research does that in general. This requires broad, large-scale efforts, long-term support and, not least, long-term investments, as several rapporteurs have also mentioned. That brings me to what should not be any bitter upbringing, but a statement. As the Social Democrat rapporteur made clear, this government, no matter what constellation it has had, has drastically reduced research. The former Social Democratic radical government spent 1 billion. kr. more research and that at a time when we were in economic crisis. And I would like to say that this is one of the things I am most proud of, i.e. that we did not cut down on research and education, as so many other European countries did at a time when Europe was in deep economic crisis. Because when you do, that's cutting down on research and education, it's like peeing in your pants to keep warm. Research is really hard to get such a public debate up about, but it is so important and we need far more ambition again. That is why I would like to take up the thread of previous rapporteurs. It was the Liberal Alliance rapporteur who called for future high ambitions in this area. We have them in the Radical Left to such an extent, and I would like to share some of the basic principles that we work on when we work on research and for purely general inspiration. The Minister is welcome to be inspired by them. I hope so. Such basic research is about us being wise about ourselves, about each other and about the surroundings in which we live. We must be curious and creative as people, and a wise and creative and inventive world also requires free and independent research, research that is not subject to changing political winds or demands for short-term usefulness. Knowledge is valuable in itself, even if you do not immediately know what it is to be used for. That is the first principle. The second is that research helps us to understand and address the challenges we face and face in the midst of: climate, marginalisation of populations, technology, nationalism. The diseases that occur due to other changes. This requires highly specialised knowledge, but it also requires real interdisciplinaryism, and this requires researchers to interfere in the public debate. Conversely, it also requires political sensitivity and, of course, the will of the whole of society to use the results of research. Then I go to the third principle and there are only four, don't worry. In a country like ours, and it's specific to the world we're looking at, it's true that from here our world goes. And in a country with no great natural resources, because we do not, the intelligent sustainable solutions and competent employees are everywhere we live on and on which we must live. And solid basic research, strong cooperation relations between companies and researchers are also the basis for new and well-trained labour and for new knowledge to evolve all the time. The latter is about what is really crucial here. Research is a necessary investment. It makes us both wiser and richer, but if world-class research, and we do not have to call it real ambitions for research based on what I have just said, must be more than a slogan, then we also need to stand together politically and say that we want to show both a genuine political commitment that ensures a good framework, but also necessary resources, even when it is difficult. So I really hope we can find support for that in the future. I think it has looked bad, but I would like to put on the optimistic hat here, because we want to. In the Radical Left, we are then ready for it too. We are ready to invest massively, and we are also ready to prioritise. And, in addition to crowns to crowns, we want to cancel all the savings that the government has made on education and on research, to invest another 1 billion. kr. Every year in education and research, because we want to. We have very high ambitions. We mean it and we want to prioritise it. And gladly in a new agreement that broadly reflects that this Parliament has very great ambitions for future research, because it benefits everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113145514	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113145526	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the written statement. Research and innovation are a cornerstone of Danish society. That is why I am pleased that together we have a broad agreement for the research reserve in 2017. First of all, I would like to point out that we have set aside 21 million. kr. to the Entrepreneurship Fund with a view to continuing efforts to strengthen training in entrepreneurship, innovation and entrepreneurship. This will greatly benefit innovation in the education system. Secondly, we have set aside 71 million. kr. for research into bio resources, food and environmental technology. This will be a joy for agriculture and the Danes, as it creates a stronger food sector and a greener climate. We have set aside more funds for the energy technology development and demonstration programme and the environmental technology development and demonstration programme so that we can always be at the forefront of the latest technology in this area. In addition to the research reserve, we have set aside 0.9 billion. kr. more in 2017 for research, innovation and development compared to the level of 2016. The latest figures for the OECD show that Denmark remains at the top in terms of investment in research and innovation. One of the reasons for the good international location is the investment by municipalities and regions in research and development. Their investments have increased by more than 40%. compared to the level 10 years ago. My final comment will be that research makes a difference in the everyday life of the Danes. This could be read recently, for example, as more Danes today survive cancer. This can be largely attributed to the investments that we attach annually to the fight against cancer and which we must continue to support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113145735	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113145752	Thank you, President-in-Office, and above all thank you for the words of the rapporteurs on the statement. What we seem to agree on is that good research is the way to both a richer and wiser country. But what does excellent research really require? Seen from my desk, it requires talent and not least, as Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned, focus on quality, and then it takes courage, namely the courage to ask questions that no one has asked before, the courage to experiment so that new inventions can arise, the courage to set sail against unknown sea, for the future they are brave. That is why, as has also been said, we must of course look at whether it is true that we have got modern barriers that stand in the way of what it was like. We have many examples of brave researchers in Denmark. It is scientists who have dared to lose their foothold and have shown that it was worthwhile. These are names such as Bohr, Ørsted and Inge Lehmann to mention just a few examples. In each of their fields, atomic physics, electromagnetism and seismology, they dared to speak in the middle of the day, dared to speak in the middle of it and go new ways. In doing so, they produced results for the future, and that is also our task. We do this by giving researchers a good framework so that brave research is possible. It is important for our ambition to be a thinking and prosperous country in a world that is constantly changing, and it is crucial at a time when the future is unpredictable, to create the framework to seize that future and make it ours. Robot technology, drones, large amounts of data and artificial intelligence are all opportunities that can create new growth and new opportunities, but which, of course, also draw worrying perspectives in its places. We must dare to seize the opportunities offered by digital technologies. We must enter the fourth industrial revolution with open forehead and courage. We must learn from the very best internationally and constantly strive for even better and even stronger ideas and even more innovation. That is why we are also investing a lot, a fortune, in research and innovation, and, above all, it is also important at this time to focus on increasing the quality of research. That is why we are working to strengthen the value of research in society, among other things. through an even stronger interaction between business and public research, but it is important that this does not predetermine the framework of it, because then everything is not really good. Let us start with investments, which have been affected by various rapporteurs. It is actually a little bit too bad that it is always the focal point, because that much, after all, does not divide us, but no matter what our ambition is high. We invest 1%. of GDP in research and development, and in 2017, as has been said several times, Denmark has allocated nearly 22 billion. kr., namely 21.6 billion. DKK, for research and development. We are at the top of the OECD when it comes to public investment in research and development, and research and innovation is a Danish strength position. This confirms the latest figures from the 2016 research barometer. One thing is that Danish researchers are very high when you look at the picture of which research is quoted most in the OECD, but we are also number three when you measure the number of quotes of scientific publications. This testifies to a highly recognised and high quality Danish research. Secondly, our research output is high. Here we are number two when we measure the number of scientific publications. Only Switzerland produces several scientific publications per year. population than Denmark. Last but not least, Denmark has the highest proportion of publications published in cooperation with industry. Denmark is also doing well in the area of innovation. We are the third most innovative country in Europe after Switzerland and Sweden according to the EU Innovation Union Scoreboard. So, regardless of how you turn it around, the starting point for a debate on this must be pride in Danish research. But, of course, there are no roses without thorns. There are also challenges. If you look at industrial investment in research, you can see that Denmark is in a tenth position in the OECD. As you know, it is companies that drive growth in Denmark, and therefore it is crucial that we also have a courageous industry that is prepared to invest and, above all, has the framework for investing in research and development. I am concerned that research is spreading, both in companies and in our society, because the Danes must enjoy the science that research produces, whether it be in the form of new products, new medicine or new knowledge that helps us understand the world in which we live. Therefore, the government wants to take an active part in the development of a more open science, so-called open science. Today, data and information are quickly shared through the Internet. We have to take advantage of that. Our aim is that all publicly funded scientific articles should be made available free of charge by 2020-2022 at the latest. This will facilitate the access of researchers to research by others and increase the overall impact, and ultimately it will benefit ordinary citizens. The Day of Research is also an initiative that brings research and the future right into the living room of the private Dane. In 2016, for the first time, we expanded the Day of Research from 3 days to 1 week, so it may also be that you should consider the name. Recordmany Danes were given the opportunity to play on the playground of the research. It was a huge success. More than 75,000 Danes visited the Day of Research. In 2015, there were 64,000. The number of organisers was almost doubled • it is now more than 600 events and lectures distributed throughout the country • in other words: research dissemination at its best. Our research investment must therefore create value and growth, which is why we have set up an inter-ministerial committee to examine the impact of our research efforts. What are the socio-economic gains, and how are they characterized? And what is the impact of research investment on the economy through long-term higher education? These are questions to which the committee is seeking answers, and despite the political picture of research, it may well be common sense to clarify what the country looks like. We need to become even better at creating interaction between research, companies and society throughout Denmark, so the government has tried with a number of initiatives in 2016 to seize the future and make it ours. I will not mention all of them, but just highlight some important ones: in May Parliament adopted a new legislation on drone flying, and in September the new rules came into force. The rules make it clear who is allowed to fly drones where and when and why is it important? The drones can do something we need. They can take over a wide range of dangerous and demanding tasks that have previously been carried out manually. In other words, they save time and money. This is true of the National Police, where policemen use drones to create an overview of crime scenes; this is the case in the emergency, where drones help save lives in fires and other accidents; and this is the case in fishing, where drones can detect illegal rushes in Danish streams. So that the drones can create more security, can create increased productivity, it's all good. With our drone law and Denmark's national drone strategy presented by the previous government in September, we have given the drones a flying start and set the framework for researchers, students and companies to seize the opportunities. 2016 was also the year when we learned about some of the future's most important research themes. Through the Forsk 2025 initiative, we asked the outside world what areas of research they think should influence the future of the research landscape. There were 476 brave proposals for everything from the construction of the future, prevention of diseases to research into materials. Knowledge is what we have to live on. That is why we need a good basis for prioritising the millions of kroner we spend on strategic research. Our investments must lose value for everyone in our society, and they must be made on the basis of solid knowledge. This is what we will get with the Forsk 2025 catalogue, which will come later this year, and thus we will take another step towards new opportunities for Denmark. Let me finish somewhere else, far out in the galaxies, far from the globe, the homeland and Christiansborg. 2016 was the year when Denmark got its first space strategy, a fascinating size. Space can make us smarter on everything from shooting stars to black holes, from gravity to time, from solar systems to supernovas. But space is not just about discovery and new knowledge. It is also concrete technology, jobs and profits. The space industry will grow in the years to come, and with our space strategy we provide universities and businesses with the framework to take advantage of the opportunities that technology brings with it. With the strategy, we go from seeing space as a knowledge project to seeing it as a growth project as well. It is crucial if we want to seize the future and make it ours, to bring growth to Denmark, not least because of the point made by several rapporteurs that we bring growth, we also bring more funds, and so we have a good circle. We end up back where we began, by the courage to bring about changes that benefit the future, the courage to seize the opportunities that digital technologies bring with them, the courage to enter the fourth industrial revolution. This year's research and innovation policy report shows that we are on the way, but that we can, of course, be even better. And as new Minister for the future, I hope we can continue the good cooperation in the field of research in the coming year. I hope that we have the courage to work together to create the best conditions for research, innovation and development, so that together we can make 2017 the year of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151000	Thank you very much, Minister. There is a brief comment from Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151007	Thank you. The Minister now points out in his speech, and it is also in the statement that Denmark is among the countries that invest most in public research, and that Denmark also spends the most money, in other words on public research as a share of GDP. However, I would also like to maintain what I said in my speech, if the Minister does not agree that it would be most appropriate to compare with regions which have a level of prosperity at the level of Denmark when we are faced with the international comparison. Then it looks much less impressive than what the Minister chooses to highlight here in his speech when he brings up the OECD. So my question is short and good: is it the case that the government is not going down the wrong path in terms of investment in research and innovation, since it is now that we are using the right figures to compare ourselves with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151107	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151110	If so, this is the calculation method that Mrs Mette Reissmann is going to put forward, the billion that we are standing here discussing makes no difference. Then it's not who's moving something. Then I would say that it is up here, former ministers, also from Mrs Mette Reissmann's government, that it is a whole other street to play. I am based on what is available in relation to statistics, and I would like to emphasise that I certainly believe that world-class research is taking place in Denmark and that we can be proud of the efforts being made. Can you always want more? Yeah, by nature. But what really defines? I think that is perhaps missing a tiny bit in this debate, because it is easy to stand and say that you have to give more, but if you do not want to define how much more and where you want to find the money, it is a little difficult. This is certainly a new parameter for me, if that is what we are about to start judging Denmark on, and that is the case, regardless of which government has been sitting for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151208	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151210	But okay, so that's the size we're discussing, the size of the fortune, I can now understand. Let us then just talk about the billions that are different at the time when the Social Democratic Party, together with the Radical Left, had the power of government, because that is a billion. I am absolutely convinced that if we asked at the educational and research institutions of the country today whether it will make a difference, they will answer a clear and resounding yes. The Minister also says in his speech here today that he wants to create a good framework for research and future research. I agree with him on that, but I just think we need an answer as to how the Minister thinks that a good framework can be created for Danish researchers when the government chooses to save 1.3 billion. kr. in 2016, and by the way, the same savings will continue in 2017, because that is the size that depends, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151258	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151300	This could give rise to a long comment! 'Cause I might be a little upset to hear it, but don't do it. I don't want it all to be a platitute. I should like to say that in my view this is a backward-looking approach, because what is the real problem? The real problem has been that the economy which has been available from the political majority which has taken responsibility for this country's policy has not been enough to guarantee the billions that Mrs Mette Reissmann is talking about. However, there are some politicians who take care of themselves that they want to promote growth so that more money can come within the 1-percent objective. On the front, then, I would say that it can certainly create more money for research and innovation than a debate about a billion or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151354	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151357	I heard the Minister come up with something that almost sounded like an admission. The minister mentioned that there were apparently some reports that some barriers had been built up in our system in relation to being able to do basic research, which I am among others. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). Could the Minister try to clarify what the Minister's understanding is of that and perhaps also go further and make some suggestions as to what the Minister will do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151433	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151435	Well, it is always easy for a new minister to say that now you will give it all a check and give it your own mark and look at it in the seams and do all sorts of things. But I would really like to say that what is my basic view is that curiosity I also wrote that in my first statement as Minister is the finest virtue. We must not put up barriers that prevent curiosity from reaching where the real new research breakthroughs are coming. And it must be frankly said that since my accession I have heard from various quarters that their opinion is that there are such barriers. And there I am completely unprejudiced... I'd like to look at that in the seams. So more square reports are not given, because if we move far into it, there may also be huge amounts of policy in it. But I don't want to kill the free thought. On the contrary, I want to nurture it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151535	Well, I'm really glad to hear that, and these are also some of the considerations I have myself. It is therefore perhaps also interesting that the Minister himself mentioned some different well-known Danish researchers who had contributed important things, but they were all some from another time. And demands of the kind we are making today that it should be usable, that it should be used, that it should be safe and that it should be used to generate growth were not yet made for those scientists at the time. Would the Minister not acknowledge that the reports that exist, both from researchers but also from other quarters, from business, including from Arla in Sweden, as we have heard here, are that it is actually a problem that basic research does not get its place?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151633	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151634	In any case, I would say that if you go into a society where it is the politicians who completely define how and how the research is to be done, then we are in a place where I certainly do not want to be at all because someone does not know anything about it, then it is the politicians. That's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151650	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151653	Thank you for that statement. What we politicians know nothing about, I fully agree with the Minister. I certainly do not think that we should be running the time of placards, but there must be room for a bit here on Friday afternoon. Congratulations on the space strategy and the ambitions for space. One of the greatest things I have experienced as a minister was to be appointed minister of outer space by royal resolution. I continue to carry that with me. It was really incredibly funny, apart from the fact that it is true. It offers much more than just research opportunities, including plenty of job and growth opportunities. I would like to ask the Minister and the Government's ambitions in this area, because a statement is in many ways more retrospect that it is forward-looking. I think that in the debate we have shown both a fairly broad interest and a willingness to look ahead now. I understand that the Minister does not have so many months in the chair, but can the Minister reveal what the research policy ambitions are for the government, both in terms of resources and in terms of direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151816	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151818	What I am going to be particularly interested in in the future is the discussion that has been about mass versus quality. This applies in the field of education, in the field of research. I have such a feeling that we have reached a place where there is a greater degree of political consensus that we need to focus more on quality. It's a new move. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen has actually made some comments of the same nature, but at a time when it was not as trendy as it is now. Our efforts towards funding will be to try to implement a 2025 plan, which will throw off growth and which will therefore also affect research and science. Some people believe that this is far too long-term and that money should only be found within the current budget, but our approach is now that it must be sustainable, even in the long term, and it is only created by proper growth in our gross domestic product.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113151933	Thank you. We in the Radical Left are very interested to hear more about this and, of course, offer to participate in both discussions and negotiations at all times. We want to take responsibility for long-term investment in research and education. We believe that this is absolutely crucial for Denmark's future. If we are then to look at what several rapporteurs have said here, I would say that the word mass in headlines means something with many and poor quality, and that quality on the other hand, of course, is very good. It's hard that way to be against. If that means that we cut the number of PhDs to half, I think we will be more reserved in the Radical Left. This requires more thorough consideration of what we really mean when we talk about it. So will the Minister invite the rapporteurs, can we have the discussions, and is there a timetable for that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170113152036	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113152037	There is no final timetable. No. Well, it was very kind of Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen to note that I had not been in the chair for so long. It has its own truth. But I can guarantee that I did not choose to redefine the title, which is now the official title, to the future minister for beard or for fun. It was such a definition of what I see in this order. And there is no escape from the fact that there will of course be a need for solid anchoring in the Folketing and the help of the respective rapporteurs. And I am delighted, for example, that. The Radical Left chooses to take responsibility for lifting this society up both economically, but also in this field professionally. And that is why I can guarantee Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that she will also be involved in the considerations I am making.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113152132	Thank you to the Minister for Education and Research. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170113152145	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 17 January 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
