ParlaMint-DK_20170523130007	The meeting is open. There is today the following review: Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate (Lars Christian Lilleholt): Bill no. L 214 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Tax of Electricity. The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Danish Parliament Martin Henriksen (DF) and Peter Skaarup (DF) have informed me that they want to take back the following question to the Minister for Justice:•What can the Minister say about harassment and persecution of Danes in ghetto areas? • F 55). The question has now been dropped.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130056	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130122	A vote can be taken. The vote will end. In favour 112 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130154	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130220	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130246	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130316	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1-3 by the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130346	Then we reached the conclusion that the debate is about the legislative proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Then we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130357	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130416	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130443	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130506	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130532	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. In favour 110 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130555	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130621	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130644	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523130711	Thank you. When I take the floor today, it is because I believe that the majority of the Folketing is taking an unwise decision. It is always a very serious matter when Danish soldiers are sent out into the world. In this case, the government's proposal is to include 200 Danish soldiers in NATO's advanced position along the Russian border in Estonia. This will take another step in the arms race between Russia and NATO in the Baltic Sea right now. So this buildup is going on close to us here in Denmark. It is dangerous because this build-up helps to increase the risk of open conflict. It is not only dangerous for us here in Denmark, but also for the people of Estonia and the Baltics in general, as the government with the envoy claims to help. I feel it with the Russian President Putin that I wish him to be overthrown rather today than tomorrow and, above all, I am against this proposal. The more NATO forces deployed along the Russian border in the Baltic, the better Putin will be able to lubricate his electoral machine towards the forthcoming presidential elections in Russia. I've been trying to ask the government what the consequence of this emissary of soldiers to an advanced position near the Russian border can be. I asked both at first reading and in committee: what does the government expect the result to be? Can we expect the Russians to follow up with further armaments, as we have seen in the past? The answer from the government has been that it cannot be ruled out that NATO's envoy will be followed by further Russian escalation. Nor can the government rule out that additional Danish soldiers will be sent if this arms race continues. In other words, we are currently in a spiral of escalation and armaments on which the government does not know the end. It's dangerous. That will undoubtedly strengthen the Russian President Putin and, at worst, it will end in an incalculable conflict. That is why Enhedslisten rejects the proposal from the government. We want pressure on President Putin; we do not want a strengthening of President Putin. We want political and economic pressure, not a headless armament and a arms race close to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131000	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131007	I've gotten in touch.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131012	Was that a brief comment to the rapporteur? Yes). So it didn't appear here. Then the rapporteur must come back. Here you go, Peter Juel Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131020	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur's party is the only party that does not think this is a good idea. Can the rapporteur then guarantee to the Baltic countries that if the Folketing follows the Enhedslistet, Russia will stop harassing the Baltic countries? Can the Enhedslisten's rapporteur guarantee this to the Baltic countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131046	I do not think that any of us can guarantee anything, but what we can work on is to resolve the race that is going on right now. The problem is, of course, that this proposal will not prevent Russian armament from happening on the contrary either. We have the Government's response to the Folketing that there is a risk of further Russian escalation, and even that we can very soon stand here again and discuss the deployment of additional Danish soldiers to the Baltic. We therefore have a dangerous arms race, and we should avoid that. We should instead work for mutual disarmament. I know it is not easy, but that is what we should be working towards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131124	There is a further brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131127	The rapporteur says: I do not think I can guarantee anything. Nevertheless, the rapporteur expects a guarantee from the government as to what will happen if you do this. Is it quite fair to each other? And is it not the case that the Baltic countries themselves have asked NATO for help, support and support?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131150	One thing that I think is certain is that this contribution and NATO's advanced position are not going to get the Russians to remove their soldiers on the Russian side of the border or the missiles they are setting up in Kaliningrad. And it is not for the benefit of the Baltics; it is not for the benefit of the Danes. It is for no one's benefit to have this situation where there is an increased presence of military, because it can ultimately lead to an open conflict that is dangerous to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131220	There are further brief comments. Sir. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131224	I have to admit, I don't understand. It is said from the rapporteur's side that this will not help the Baltic States at all. What is reality? The reality is, the balts are asking us to do this. The Balts are extremely pressured by a totally aggressive Russia, which is why they want an insurance policy. So this is our insurance policy to protect the Baltic States. Why should we not listen to the people of the Baltic countries • small countries that need support from other small countries, including Denmark? Imagine if the opposite was the case. So should we just, so to speak, go our own way because no one could help us? Frankly, I find that sad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131306	I'm sure there's someone that this is going to help, and that's Russian President Putin. He and his oligarch friends need an outer enemy if he is to regain the presidential election in Russia. It is quite obvious that NATO's advanced position will be a subject which he will clearly use to try to mobilise nationalist voices in Russia. If we're going to put pressure on Putin, we should start all over again. What we have specifically called for by Enhedslisten is that we Danishs say no to this Nord Stream II pipeline, which we hope will be possible to do with the change of law announced by the government. I would like it to be better today than tomorrow that the government announced that it will not happen, because it will push Putin and his oligarch friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131350	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131353	Then we didn't get an answer. I asked specifically what we should do in relation to the three Baltic countries that have asked us to come to their rescue to secure a guarantee and draw a line in the sand against an aggressive Russia. There were no answers. I must then acknowledge that we have to thank ourselves for the fact that the Enhedslisten obviously does not have an answer to the three countries that actively want our presence and actively want our help to draw a line in the sand towards Russia. Then, in return, I can rejoice that we have a united Parliament around the Enhedslisten, which fortunately supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131430	I understand quite a hundred percent that the Baltics, not least for historical reasons, are really afraid of Russia. I can understand that. Russia has behaved completely unacceptable and extremely towards the Baltic people. What I think we should do and we have a duty to do is work to ensure the security of the balts, just as we should ensure the safety of the Danes, and we do not do that by participating in this arms race, which I think is dangerous for all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131459	The next question is Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131503	As so often before, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen and Enhedslisten have a very, very important debate and I really agree with many of the criticisms made by the rapporteur on this proposal. At the same time, however, I think that if we cannot support such action under NATO, in other words where we meet the requirements of our membership, by supporting Member States that need Article 5 enforcement, what is our membership of NATO? If you do not support this on the part of the Enhedslisten, I suppose it is also a signal that you do not actually want to be part of NATO. In the alternative, we are very critical of NATO, but we do not see a security constellation that can solve the security problem for Denmark right now. We simply lack stronger European unity, a stronger Nordic alliance, a stronger UN. So my question to the rapporteur is this: does the rapporteur say that the Enhedslisten wants us to get out of NATO when we cannot even support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131601	I have to say that I am very surprised that the alternative can back this up, not least in a situation where we have a response from the government saying that it cannot be ruled out that there will be a further Russian escalation and that we may very soon be standing here and discussing a further arms race. At any rate, eight of the 28 NATO countries have chosen not to participate in this. At least that is what we were told by the Minister at first reading. So this is a question where every party is forced to think for themselves. And I think it would be really bad if we on the Danish side generally just did what NATO just came up with, not least at a time when Trump is sitting at the top of NATO. We have an obligation, not least in the case of a nearby area such as the Baltic Sea, both to the Baltic States, but also to the Danish people, to work for détente and against the arms race, which I honestly believe is very dangerous.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131702	I share many of the considerations, but in the alternative we have the very existential problem that we simply cannot see what the alternative should be to NATO right now. So although we are critical of many of the actions and vote no in the Chamber, the alternative still wants us to be members of NATO. And there is my direct question: if you do not support this, what do you support in the Enhedslisten in relation to NATO cooperation? Are there NATO actions supported by the Enhedslisten? It is simply to get a clear answer: does the Enhedslisten want us to leave NATO?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131735	Well, the Enhedslisten is against NATO. We would rather strengthen our commitment to the United Nations, which is nothing new. However, I would like to point out that we have a situation in which a united Nordic left has actually gone out and said against the arms race that is currently taking place, both on the Russian side and on the NATO side. The SF and the Alternative signed this statement, but has nevertheless agreed to a Danish participation in NATO's participation in the arms race, and I must say that I am extremely surprised. I would like us to develop an alternative in the Nordic countries. That is what we went along with the Nordic parties on. We are pleased that the Nordic parties on the left are generally on target for this, and it is sad that the alternative and SF are dropping out, as I see it when it comes to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131821	The next question is Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131827	Thank you. And thank the rapporteur for expressing something I am happy to say that I am clearly and strongly opposed to. Solidarity is an expression that you would like to use on the left, including the Enhedslisten. I should just like to say that the rapporteur would not think that when your friends ask for help and you have promised to help them beforehand, it is solidarity that you also help them when they ask for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131856	I guess that's what Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen talks about is the situation in the Baltic. And I think we have an obligation to do everything we can to ensure the security of the balts. That is precisely why I am also against this, because I fear that this arms race will lead to conflict; that we will end up in a situation where that conflict becomes open. And it will hit the Baltics, not least, because it will be right on top of their heads, and it will be very, very close to Denmark, as it is the Baltic Sea we are talking about. That is why I think it is irresponsible to have the security of the Danes if we take part in this arms race.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523131937	Speaking of the Danish defence as an arms race seems to be a bit of a conspiracy. Let's imagine another slightly more earthy situation. Let us imagine that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen and the undersigned are out to drink a glass of milk... a happy evening... and a large, unpleasant type of a la sir. Søren Gade here next door, looking at Mr. Søren Gade threateningly. Nikolaj Villumsen. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen in the situation that I stand up or that I remain seated, since we are two little guys molested by a big and grumpy grobrian?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132009	Have we experienced this situation? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The question, then, is: what do you need in this situation? There is exactly a need for a police force; there is a need for a strong international legal order. That is why we actively support the UN in the Enhedslisten, and that is why we believe that it is so critical that the former VK government bypassed the UN went to war in Iraq. Because it is helping to undermine the system that we have, where it is so that the big one is not just beating the little one. That was the critical aspect of the Iraq war, and that is also what is totally unacceptable about Putin's entry into Crimea and East Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132054	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132100	Thank you. The rapporteur keeps on talking about this initial arms race. Is the rapporteur aware that it is NATO's strongest conviction that Russia has reached its maximum in terms of industrial capacity? We simply cannot produce more weapons in Russia. So we cannot use this opportunity to further strengthen our defences. There are simply no factories available to make the escalation that Enhedslisten is talking about. Is the rapporteur aware that Russia cannot produce more than it already does?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132134	Allow me to remind the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that Russia has an incredible number of nuclear weapons and that, in fact, they have exactly set in motion an upgrade of those nuclear weapons. I think that is dangerous. This is precisely the arms race that I think is so worrying and that we should counteract rather than contribute to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132157	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132158	But that is precisely what Russia has set in motion all they can. That's why we're not gonna start some further race by securing our friends in the Baltics. There is no more energy in the muscles of Russia's legs. They can't run any stronger. That is why the escalating arms race that Enhedslisten is talking about is going to be a short fight, because only the NATO Alliance can run stronger in this context. Russia is on top and can therefore, if they are to change speed, only put it down. They can't run any stronger. The Enhedslisten will have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132237	I don't share that confidence in Putin. I think he can come up with a lot, much more unpleasant. That is also why we in the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party support those sanctions, among others. ban on the export of weapons which the EU has imposed on Russia. I hope that the Danish People's Party will come up here and explain a little later why it is that Danish soldiers should be sent to the Russian border, while at the same time the Danish People's Party argues for the lifting of the EU arms embargo against Putin, which will enable him, if it is abolished, to buy state-of-the-art European weapons, which can then, at worst, hit Danish soldiers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132312	The next question is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132316	I do not think it surprises anyone that the Baltic countries do not have their true friends among Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's fellow party members. They have hardly had, and neither have they today. What I can understand The Enhedslisten says must be replaced by a NATO that defends itself and defends our allies is the UN. All honour and respect for the United Nations, but one of the UN's forces is, at the same time, one of the weaknesses of the United Nations, namely that virtually all countries are members of the United Nations. This means that there are a number of situations in which the UN cannot act. I assume that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is aware that Russia is on the Security Council as a permanent member of the United Nations and will therefore be able to block the intervention of the United Nations in the event that Russia attacked the Baltic countries. So Enhedslisten doesn't really have any answer to the balts, other than that we just sit still and hope that everything will pass, or how am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132415	No, the rapporteur should not understand it that way. First of all, I would like to say that I have good Baltic friends and I really like the Baltic people. That's one of them. Therefore, we say no to an arms race that can become dangerous to them. So what's the alternative to doing this? That is actually what we have presented together with the Left in the North. From Norway, Sweden, Finland, Iceland and Denmark, we have joined forces and have proposed that we, under the Nordic regime, • because the Baltic Sea is right up to the Nordic countries • start work to achieve mutual disarmament. I'm not saying it's gonna be easy, but we can, among other things. use economic and political pressure, for example by rejecting this Nord Stream 2 pipeline, to push the Russians. Furthermore, it is positive that the former German Foreign Minister, Mr Steinmeier, has taken the initiative to try, under the auspices of the OSCE, to negotiate a disarmament agreement. It was precisely these initiatives that led to the end of the Cold War, without a shot being loosened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132521	No, the danger is not that you defend yourself... the danger is an aggressive overpower that will attack you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132532	There is no doubt that Russia is acting completely unacceptablely in Ukraine, in Crimea and in Syria, and in addition, Putin is grossly oppressing his own people, and we must say so. I am just really concerned that this proposal will be a gift to Putin and his election campaign, because there is nothing he would rather have than an external NATO enemy so that he can mobilise the Russian electorate around himself up to the presidential elections. On the other hand, if we put economic pressure, for example by rejecting Nord Stream 2, it will hit him and his oligarch friends.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132615	Then we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132627	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 97 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132655	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132720	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour of 21 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132746	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132814	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote 22 (DF), against 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132840	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case, and then the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132912	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 by a minority (DF, EL and SF) as adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132929	The debate then concerns the proposal as a whole. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523132938	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote and a vote may be taken. The vote will end. For the vote: 41 (DF, EL, ALT, SF and 1 S), against 66 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133012	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133052	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133128	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133207	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133235	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? It has been adopted Then I propose that the draft law go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133252	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133321	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, which is a member of the Committee? It has been adopted I propose that the bill go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133335	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133400	Yes, I do, because I have promised to explain how and how we will vote on this bill. After all, it is a question of relaxing the sanctions for infringements of the rules on driving rest time. At first reading, we were very, very sceptical about the easing that is taking place, and we have continued to do so. We recognise that there is a broad desire for it from the industry as a whole. But here at second reading we have tabled an amendment which states that we certainly do not think that there should be any relaxation as regards the part of the infringements which has an impact on the control of infringements of the rules on driving rest time. In fact, we think it is quite crazy to relax the penalties in this area and to reduce the penalties, which is why we have tabled an amendment calling for at least the penalties to be retained in this area when it comes to infringements of the rules on driving rest time which are appropriate to prevent controls. As we do not expect our amendments to be adopted, the Enhedslisten will vote for or against, in other words yellow, at the third reading. And when we do not vote directly against the bill, it is also in respect of the majority that we have succeeded in creating in order to tighten controls at all and greatly increase the amount of fines in order to violate the rule that the regular weekly rest, which is at least 45 hours, is now very technical, and if you are not in the area, you will think enough: the gap should not be held in the truck's cab. Those who are a little interested in the area will know that this is a wide-ranging discussion which has been going on for a long time and that there is a broad desire for action to be taken against the violation that is taking place here. Not least, there are plenty of Eastern drivers who spend months and six months on European roads and in European rest areas waiting for new orders. They are tempting a life under difficult conditions, and it is without seeing the shadow of their family and their homes for months and six months as I have said, and so they are making a salary that can outperform any Danish or for that matter Western European driver. We have tabled an amendment on these matters, but the Ministry of Transport did not want to assist with technical assistance in drafting an amendment to the bill. And that is quite unusual, I should say, but it is so fair, given the pressure of time that is felt from now on, until the parliamentary year ends and because it is also thought that this is actually a completely new proposal. As I have said, it has succeeded in creating a majority outside the government. It consists of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, where we have committed, if I may say so, a joint contribution to the report, in which we require the government to make a proposal for a greatly increased level of fines. At the same time, we have instructed the government to present the proposal immediately in the new parliamentary year. We think it is important that we have succeeded in creating a majority here, that is to say that it is important to stick to it, and that is why we have chosen on the part of the Enhedslisten to abstain from the legislative proposal itself, even though we are opposed to reducing the penalties for infringements of the rules on driving rest time to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133836	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133847	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). And a vote can be taken. That concludes the vote. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133927	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523133956	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). A vote can be taken. I shall conclude the vote. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 10, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3 and 4 of a minority (S and DF), elected by a majority (other committee), on Amendment No. 5, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No 5, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6 of a minority (S and DF), elected by a majority (the other committee), on Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 8 and 9 of a minority (S and DF), elected by a majority (other committees)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. Then we have reached a different reading in which there is no electronic vote. That is why we can reasonably leave the room in good order while we breathe for a moment, so that the rapporteurs who are about to do so can also hear themselves. We say thank you for departure in good order, and then we go on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523134200	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523134232	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523134258	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (EL), joined by a majority (the other committee with the exception of IA) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The draft law referred to in A shall then be put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Civil Procedure]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (EL), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of IA), on Amendment No 2. Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) or by Amendment No 3, adopted by a majority (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) or by a majority of the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. 4 of a minority (EL), elected by a majority (the other committee with the exception of IA)? It's agreed. The draft law referred to in B is then voted on [Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Civil Procedure, the Law on the Brussels I Regulation, etc.]. and various other laws. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 of a minority (S and DF), joined by a minority (V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), which together deletes a majority? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523134416	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will not take place until Monday 29 May 2017. We need to justify this question, and the rapporteur for the questioners does so, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523134522	Thank you very much for the floor, sir. President. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I would like to open this debate today. It is, of course, about the very good tradition that we have here in the Folketing to debate challenges and opportunities for our kingdom community. I look forward to a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523134533	Thank you. Then we shall have the question answered, and that is the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523134543	Thank you so much. Today we will have the annual inquiry debate on the Kingdom Community, and I have been looking forward to it. It is a good tradition for us to gather together to discuss challenges and opportunities in the Kingdom community, and today it does not stop there, because later we will have a separate debate about Greenland's constitutional work and economic opportunities as an independent country raised by the Danish People's Party. I look forward to that too, and that is where we will have the opportunity to go into detail on those issues. The government wants a strong kingdom community, where we both stand together and allow room for diversity. We do this best through equal and trusting cooperation across geographical and political divides. Fortunately, this is how we feel today, both in areas which Denmark is responsible for for the whole Kingdom community, and if the Faroe Islands and Greenland so wish, also in the areas that have been taken over. The framework for our cooperation is, after all, the autonomy arrangements. These are systems that are modern and flexible, in which the Faroe Islands and Greenland have the opportunity to take over further competence and develop self-determination at the rate they want. Virtually all important decisions about the Faroese and Greenlandic communities are taken today in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and of course that is the case. This can legally be done because the Constitution offers very wide scope for self-determination. But in some areas it also sets limits. This is true, for example. in foreign and security policy. The Faroe Islands and Greenland cannot pursue an independent foreign and security policy, regardless of the kingdom of which they are part. This does not mean that the Faroe Islands and Greenland have been deprived of an international voice. Of course they are not, because we have also found constructive solutions in the field of foreign policy. This is true, for example. our work in the Arctic Council, where we have found practical solutions so that all three parts of the empire have the opportunity to speak out, and I think that is a good arrangement, and that makes good sense. I would also like to make it quite clear today that I respect the desire of the Faroe Islands and Greenland to be able to represent themselves as an independent and independent party to foreign policy, and especially where the interests of the Faroe Islands and Greenland intersect, such as Greenland. in the area of fisheries. I actually think it applies to all of us that there is respect for it. This is just not possible within the framework of the Constitution, and no Danish government can go beyond the Constitution. I think we will be the longest if we use our energy in dialogue with each other and work together to find practical solutions that take the interests of the Faroe Islands and Greenland as much as possible. That's my approach to it. I am fully aware that this approach does not respond to the Faroe Islands' wish for the current authorisation system to be extended, so that the Faroe Islands have more independent foreign policy options, but the fact is that it is not possible within the framework of the Basic Law, which means that the Kingdom is, in the legal and international sense, one subject of international law. On that basis, I have therefore invited you to sit down together and look at how to optimise the scope for action and minimise conflicts within the legal framework in force, and we are prepared to clarify and flesh out the conditions of the authorisation system together. It is still my hope, and I would like to repeat it here today, that the Faroe Islands will help to find the pragmatic solutions in this matter, so that we avoid major conflicts on the day of the finding of common solutions that concern both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Also in relation to Brexit, the government attaches importance to continuous and close cooperation in, among others. to identify the consequences for the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The Faroe Islands and Greenland await important negotiations with the United Kingdom, where the fishing area is not least central, and we are happy to assist if the Faroe Islands or Greenland so wish. Both Greenland and the Faroe Islands work with their own constitutions. As I have said, Greenland's constitutional work will have to be discussed in greater depth later today, so I will confine myself to saying that the Greenland Constitutional Commission has received its mandate and has just begun its work. It has done so without at this stage being fully clear whether the Commission is only preparing proposals for a constitution to apply to an independent Greenland, or also a proposal to apply while Greenland is part of the Kingdom Community. I'll get back to that. The work of the Faroe Islands with its own constitution has been going on for a long time, and the national government has not yet completed its work on the draft Constitution. However, the lagman has recently indicated that a Faroese constitution will have the character of an identity document within the framework of the Kingdom Community, and it is not intended that the Faroe Islands should leave the Kingdom community with the Constitution. The lager has promised that there will be a referendum on the Constitution on 25 April next year, on the flag day of the Faroe Islands. I respect the desire for such an identity document, but it must be possible to accommodate it within the framework of the Constitution with the concerns and limitations that follow as long as the Faroe Islands are part of the Commonwealth. The government wants a good dialogue on these issues so that it can hopefully succeed in achieving the goal of the work in a way that is both satisfactory for the Faroe Islands and respects the constitution of the kingdom. When I want it, it is because we want the best for the Faroe Islands. That is why I am also pleased that the Faroe Islands have made great economic progress since 2013. There has been growth and it has been driven mainly by increasing exports of fish and fish products. Unemployment in the Faroe Islands now stands at only 2.3 per cent, and there is a very high level of activity, especially in the construction sector, which means that the national government expects a good surplus on public finances this year and the next few years. That is obviously positive. However, this does not change the fact that there is still a significant need for consolidation of the public economy. The Faroe Islands' Economic Council has assessed the need for budget improvements of 750 million. kr., or if you put it in relation to the Faroese economy, which is equivalent to 5 per cent. munity, in order to ensure a balance between revenue and expenditure in the medium term. As far as Greenland is concerned, we have discussed the economic situation several times in recent years here in the Folketing. Greenland faces quite major economic challenges in terms of growth, employment and fiscal sustainability, but also in terms of education and social problems. The Greenland Economic Council has for a number of years explained the issues in their reports. At present, the business cycle is good, but that does not change the fact that there is still a very large task in balancing public revenue and expenditure when there are more older people and when there are fewer people to earn money. The Greenland Economic Council points out that if development continues, public expenditure will exceed revenue by almost 1 billion. kr., or equivalent to more than 7%. of gross domestic product, in 2035. 1 billion kr. is a very large amount. Of course, the government respects the division of powers of the Self-Government Act, which means that Greenland itself is responsible for economic policy, to carry out necessary reforms in time and to create an economic foundation for welfare. Reforms and tightenings I know all about this is rarely popular, but in my optics there is a need for Greenland to take several steps in the right direction. We cannot rely solely on new revenue or invest our way out of the problems. This is something that the Greenland Economic Council has also pointed out. Having said that, the development of industry is, of course, part of the answer to the challenges, and we are therefore among others. ready to cooperate to attract funding for socio-economically sustainable business projects. We have, for example. made it possible for the Growth Fund in Denmark to provide co-financing to companies in Greenland, and the Export Credit Fund can guarantee the purchase of Danish products by Greenlandic projects. I know that a few weeks ago there was a major business conference in Nuuk, Future Greenland, where one of the main themes was precisely the attraction of capital for Greenland. Both politicians and the people of Greenland focus on investments in airports. The idea is, among other things, that more and better airports can increase tourism, which in turn can contribute to growth and new jobs. If you have traveled in Greenland, you have also experienced, as I have done, that you had to interstate in Kangerlussuaq. It is a fantastic place, but it does not change the fact that it increases and prolongs the journey if you have to fly over 300 km south again, for example. for a meeting in Nuuk, which most visitors have to do in a professional context. This corresponds to the fact that travelers who were going to a meeting in Denmark's capital, Copenhagen, from Europe had to interstate in Aalborg to come to Copenhagen. From Greenland's point of view, very large and complex investments are being made at new airports in several places in Greenland. The design and financing plans are being drawn up and it is therefore not yet possible to fully clarify all aspects. In his coalition agreement, Naalakkersuisut refers to a desire for the creation of a joint Danish-Greenland Development Fund for investments in profitable construction and infrastructure projects in Greenland, and I would like to state here that the government is naturally prepared to discuss the question if the Home Rule Government of Greenland is addressing itself. The service contract at Thulebasen is an important matter for both Greenland and Denmark, which we cooperate closely on. We have a common desire for rapid clarification, but this is a very complex matter, which has also been the subject of lengthy legal proceedings in the United States. The Foreign Minister and his Greenlandic colleague Mr Suka K. Frederiksen discussed the matter with the US Foreign Minister, Rex Tillerson, in connection with a ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council on 11 May. These are confidential negotiations and it is vital that we allow the negotiations to reach a satisfactory result. Camp Century: Here we have discussed a number of initiatives with Naalaksuisut, who would like to see the initiatives set in motion, and Danish authorities are in dialogue with the Greenland authorities about the further organisation. Researchers estimate that there will be decades before there is a risk of leakage of contaminated melt water at Camp Century, and therefore there is also time to organise appropriate environmental action. We have a strong tradition of cooperating in the Kingdom community. It is also a strong tradition to work together on the difficult issues, and we have a strong tradition of finding solutions to the challenges we face together. Cooperation and solidarity are the key words that describe the core of the Kingdom community, an open and equal dialogue is the way forward, and I believe that all three countries in the Kingdom community are the strongest when we stick together. Our cooperation and unity can only work because we speak openly and honestly with each other and because we respect each other's differences and preconditions. That is why I am looking forward to a good and constructive debate here today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523135847	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then the negotiations have been opened, and so we move on to the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523135858	Thank you very much, sir. President. Thank you for the floor. I think this debate is a really, really good and fine recurring tradition. Thanks also to the Prime Minister for a good and full statement. The community of kingdoms means so much to me. It is a community that has its roots in the history of Denmark and a community that closely links our peoples. I am not only thinking here of us being historically linked. I am also thinking of the very many Danes, Greenlanders and Faroe Islands who travel every year across the Kingdom to work, to settle, to visit family or just to experience the different parts of our kingdom community. We are connected across generations and centuries. For me, it is therefore incredibly rewarding to be involved in the political work with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. One thing is to have a personal interest or a family interest or a historical interest, but it is something quite different to experience and get close to the whole political part: what is the Kingdom community really made up of today? How does the Kingdom community work? What are some areas that have been repatriated? What can we do better? And, of course, there is the big question: what is the way forward? When I visit Greenland and the Faroe Islands, I am always incredibly happy that I feel at home from the moment I arrive. It does not matter whether you visit the smallest village or whether it is Nuuk or Tórshavn. Therefore, I personally would be very sad and very sad, Greenland or the Faroe Islands should one day choose full independence. That would, in my view, be a really, really sad division of the Kingdom community that I am so pleased with. With that said, of course, I have full respect for such a decision, a majority in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland should one day wish it. In the meantime, I am pleased that we have strong and solid cooperation in the Kingdom community. Last time we visited Greenland and the Faroe Islands, we got an insight into the great work our defenses do in the Arctic. I am not just thinking of safety; I am also thinking of SAR operations that help fishermen and so on. etc. and of course also the new Arctic command in Nuuk and our presence in North East Greenland. Another area which Denmark is responsible for is justice, where I am pleased that we are constantly focusing on doing even more to ensure the presence of the authorities, especially in the small settlements. This is an issue that I hear about over and over again when I travel to Greenland, and this is an issue that we must take seriously. Given the enormous distances in Greenland, there is not a perfect solution, but this is an area on which we must keep our focus. In this context, I am very pleased that Aaja Chemnitz Larsen will be presenting a number of initiatives here soon, which I look forward to discussing and highlighting. I am sure that the better Denmark can contribute to the area of justice in Greenland, the stronger the kingdom community is. The cooperation to attract investment to Greenland in particular is also an important part of the Kingdom community. That is why I was pleased to read the Danish Prime Minister's chronicle today in Jyllands-Posten, where the Prime Minister mentions Naalaksuisut's wish for a joint Danish-Greenland development fund. For the same reason, I discussed with my Greenlandic colleagues the wording of investment, which has been incorporated into today's text of adoption. I fully agree with the Prime Minister. It would be a huge boost for the Greenlandic economy if we could make it easier and more flexible to fly to, for example. Nuuk or Ilulissat without flying over Kangerlussuaq. One only has to take one look at Iceland to see what huge tourism industry Iceland has built up, and with the scenic areas that are in Greenland, I think there is a huge possibility of growth in the Greenlandic tourism economy if only we can open up the opportunities. Indeed, the reality shows that despite Greenland's progress towards independence or the path towards a continued strong Kingdom community, the Greenlandic economy needs new thinking. More than half of the national fund comes from the block grant from Denmark. In addition, public expenditure is going to exceed revenue by 1 billion. kr. In 2035, unless you find other solutions. This is totally untenable for a small economy like Greenland's. Thus, I hope that enhanced cooperation to attract investment could be an expansion of airports in addition to Kangerlussuaq can be something that can strengthen the Greenland economy and make Greenland a more independent economic player in the Kingdom Community. I think that will only be a gain for everyone and something that strengthens the Kingdom community. Thus I am hopeful that we will face a future in which we will be even better at working together on those parts of the Kingdom community that have not been taken home and which I hope will make us all appreciate the Kingdom community and all the benefits that it brings us. So I look forward to today's debate. I welcome from the Conservatives and say that they also support the proposal for adoption that I am now reading on behalf of Af Marcus Knuth (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Søren Espersen (DF), Carsten Bach (LA), Roger Matthisen (ALT), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Merete Scheelsbeck (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Aleqa Hammond (UFG) and Sjúrður Skaale (JF): Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the Kingdom of 2017. The Folketing respects the desire of the Faroe Islands and Greenland for its own constitutions. The Danish Parliament notes that the Faroe Islands economy is making significant progress and that the growth in Greenland's economy was high in 2016. There is a difference between the Faroe Islands and Greenland's economy, but both countries face challenges in ensuring sustainable economic development in the long term. The Danish Parliament calls on the government to offer cooperation on reforms and economically sustainable business development, including to promote and attract investment opportunities. The Danish Parliament encourages the government to work for a standard on Danish responsibilities in the Faroe Islands and Greenland, which corresponds to the standard in Denmark with the deviations that can be justified in Faroese and Greenlandic conditions. The Folketing calls for equal cooperation in mutual respect between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland for the benefit of the peoples of the countries. • V 110). All parties minus Enhedslisten, from which I have not received an answer, and Tjóðveldi from the Faroe Islands supports this text.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523140511	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. The proposed proposal for adoption is then included in the negotiations. Then we move on and the next rapporteur is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523140526	Thank you to the Prime Minister for a very thorough statement. The Faroe Islands and Greenland have always been special and unique parts of the kingdom community. Now, if possible, they have become even more interesting than ever before. Climate change has brought challenges, but also great opportunities for both countries. Resources in the form of fish and valuable underground have brought prosperity in both countries. Tourism is flourishing as never before, and that vein has not been exhausted at all yet. And opportunities with the North East Passage in Greenland have only just begun. Let me take a look at the Faroe Islands. When there are enough fish, the Faroe Islands are doing well. This is evident from fisheries exports, which have increased by 50%. over the last 5 years. In particular, Russia's boycott of EU food has had an impact on Faroese fishing exports. But also skill and cooperation have been important factors in the success of fish farming. The Faroe Islands have made significant economic progress. There are black figures in several budget areas, employment is high and unemployment is low, in fact so low that it is particularly difficult to find labour in construction. Tourism has grown explosively and it has become both easier and cheaper to get to and from the islands. Social democracy supports the Faroe Islands' work in formulating a constitution. It will support the identity and cohesion of the Faroese people. We also support sticking to the Kingdom Community, which is a force for all three countries, and fortunately there is strong support for the Kingdom Community in the Faroe Islands. The Social Democratic Party believes that the Kingdom community is in the interests of our people that we can better promote culture, development and export. We in my party are prepared to follow the path that has already been laid out so that the Faroe Islands continue to take more and more areas. The last in the series is personal, family and inherited, and work is also being done in the field of air transport, foreign affairs and border controls. It is my impression that there is good and constructive cooperation between the Danish and Faroese authorities and governments. We are three parts of the Kingdom community: Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. In the Faroe Islands, strong forces have worked for independence for decades, although a recent poll showed a majority to stay in the Kingdom Community. Greenland has also been working towards independence for decades. Here there is more unequivocal support for independence. I am convinced that we three countries are stronger together than individually. We can make each other stronger. I think we are already doing this in a number of areas today, but we can also be even better at it. We are the strongest together, but we also recognise that the community is challenged as it now stands. This is among other things. challenged by the case of the Thule contract and the lack of clean-up of the U.S. bases. Although the former Greenland Minister for Foreign Affairs did not have a mandate when he appealed to the United Nations, it is still an expression of a strong Greenlandic frustration with the course of the matter. But also within Greenland there are challenges, especially in the social area there are very massive problems. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party can only stress that we support the current social cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. If we can contribute to strengthening social efforts and prevention in Greenland, we should always provide our knowledge and resources if Greenland believes it can benefit. In the social democracy we are convinced that people would like to work if they have the opportunity. It is therefore gratifying that the work with the Greenlandic airports in Qaqortoq, Nuuk and Ilulissat is moving forward according to plan. Everyone who has been to Greenland knows the country's tourism potential, and we hope, of course, that airport construction will make it easier to attract tourists who can generate growth in the Greenland economy and employment. In the same way, of course, it is pleasing that the ruby mine at Fiskenæsset has been opened and that another mine is ready to open later this year. We have also taken note of the praises for the work on preparing legislation for possible Greenlandic uranium exports from the IAEA President when he visited Copenhagen and Greenland. If the Kvanefjeld mine opens, it will further strengthen the Greenlandic economy and create a huge boost in the number of jobs. In general, an increase in employment helps to give more people a sense of everyday life and a content in life. It is therefore also good that we have opened the way for the Growth Fund and the Export Credit Fund to invest in Greenlandic projects. We see great potential for Danish companies to use their know-how and international networks to develop projects in Greenland together with local partners. We could usefully contribute to this politically. These measures will benefit our countries, and if Greenland and the Faroe Islands so wish, we can involve our embassies even more around the world in the work to promote Greenlandic companies and Greenlandic exports. After all, we know that poverty and other social challenges often make it difficult for young people to get an education. We see this both here in Denmark and in Greenland. At the same time, there is an outskirts problem in Greenland that makes the Danish outskirts discussion pale. Many university educations, for example, need to be developed. to Denmark or other countries to take. It provides homelonging, cultural shock and numerous other challenges for Greenlandic young people who go to Denmark to study. We should go through the area of justice thoroughly in close cooperation with the Greenland authorities, because there are a number of challenges that should be dealt with in the best possible way. Under the former Socialist Government, we decided, together with a majority in this Chamber, to open a temporary facility to remove the queue for serving so that the sentenced could have the opportunity to serve quickly and move on with their lives. We also set in motion an extraordinary effort to combat the excessive waiting times for proceedings in the courts in Greenland, which have fortunately resolved most of the problems. In addition, we raised the salary of the municipal officers, but as you know, the salary is only part of making a position attractive. Many settlements are still without a municipal bailiff. One of the problems is that a municipal guard should in principle hold a suspect in his own home. This also applies to intoxicated or affected suspects and to mentally unstable suspects. We should ensure that there are adequate facilities so that the municipal officers, for example. should not bring such suspects home to the wife and children. I have been told that there has been a dialogue between the police and the Greenland authorities on the problem. Can the Prime Minister give a status on the work • possibly in writing to the committee afterwards if the Prime Minister does not have the latest information with us today? On our committee trips, we have among other things. visited various establishments and detentions. In particular, the conditions of detention have been violated in several places. It is difficult to continue providing such poor facilities to suspects or convicted inmates who serve in detentions to be close to their families or to maintain their jobs. After all, the Greenlandic justice system is unique because it has a strong focus on rehabilitation. The system of open institutions is designed to maintain links with education or work while serving. Another challenge that I would call on the Prime Minister to address is the courts so that we can have faster and more equal legal treatment. The opening of the closed asylum for forensic patients in Greenland presents new challenges for the asylum officers. They will increasingly need continuing training to prepare them at work with mentally unstable inmates. Even now, the asylum officers report the need because they have to deal with potential forensic psychiatric patients until a psychiatric evaluation has been carried out. Both for the sake of the employees and for the sake of the inmates, we should ensure that asylum officers in Greenland have better access to the necessary continuing training. In other words, there is both a good thing to be pleased about and much to be done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141412	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141416	Thank you for the very thorough rapporteur's contribution made by the Social Democratic Party. I am pleased that the rapporteur addressed the Pituffik service contract and Camp Century. Denmark, with its defence agreement with the United States, has a moral and legal obligation to Greenland. The lost service contract and the cleanup of the old US base are absolutely relevant. In connection with the Prime Minister's statement, we have not heard what the next steps are to be taken, both in order to ensure that there is liability, but also in terms of a road map for the future, in terms of how Denmark will ensure that it is completely cleared up after the Americans and remove their leftovers. What does the rapporteur have to say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141510	I am aware that a start has been made, and I think the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech a possible clean-up after the American bases. Where we are now is, of course, that we in Denmark have agreed to take part in an exploratory work and, as the Prime Minister said, it is a few decades into the future, and fortunately for that, but that does not mean that you should lie on the low side. That means that it is precisely now that you have to prepare what to do and how to do it. Because there is no doubt that the US bases have not been cleaned up and that it is particularly intrusive at Camp Century. So our position is that we only want to push for that work to slip completely according to plan and that within a reasonable period of time we also arrive at how to react. Of course it matters how the ice melts, if the ice continues to melt, or if we may see that in ten years' time it will start to get colder again. We don't know that yet, but that's why we have to get the planning in order anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141637	Thank you. There is another question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141640	The announcement made by former Naalakkersuisoq for Foreign Affairs, Vittus Quijaukitsoq ^ whether he has a mandate or not, is a discussion we take in Greenland has come along, is very serious, given the matter. I already said in the debate on the statement last December that I would support Naala Suisut when they announced that they would file a complaint against the Danish Government to the United Nations for having broken the declaration of rights of indigenous peoples if it continued to ignore the seriousness and the representations made by Greenland to that extent. What does the Social Democratic Party think about this announcement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141729	I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that, although the complaint was not properly lodged, the whole issue is an expression of a strong Greenlandic frustration over the course of the matter, and I think it should of course be taken seriously, because we must work together in dialogue with each other to see if we can achieve better results than those we are achieving today. So that work must continue and we should not overhear the Greenlandic voice in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141804	There is a brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141809	Thank you very much. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am pleased to hear that the Social Democratic Party is preoccupied with this matter of cleaning up after the previous military activities around Greenland. As you can read in the Greenlandic news, GEUS and Artek work together to have a team over the summer looking at what it looks like and where you're doing these studies that are supposed to lead to who's in charge and find out how we're gonna clean up. Another thing the rapporteur mentioned was the asylums and the need for us to offer some psychiatric assistance to some of the inmates in the asylums. It is something that IA has also been very concerned about, and we have recommended in our legal proposal that some more money be set aside, but that responsibility between Greenland and Denmark is also clarified, and who is responsible for ensuring treatment for the inmates in the asylums.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523141910	There are several places in Greenland where there are leftovers after American bases, and I am very pleased to hear the rapporteur say that there are already people in the process of carrying out preliminary studies. On the subject of the institutions: it is quite true that we need to find out who is responsible for it, because it can be both a social and health issue and a legal one. So I can't tell you exactly what our position is. But I also think that this is about what the asylum officers are capable of handling. It can then be said that these are two different things: either the inmates or the employees, but it is very important that the people who are around people with mental problems in the asylums can also deal with it. I also look forward to discussing the issue of justice that has come from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523142013	As there are certainly several of our North Atlantic friends who want to speak today, I would just like to give the service information that you press back if you want to ask the second time. That is because there is no compulsion to ask two questions. That is entirely up to the questioner, but you have to push in. And it's just a service information, because it may have been said sometimes where you haven't just been there, and that's why I'm just saying it now. Then you press in, you get your second question, and if you don't, you don't get the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523142039	Thank you very much for the service information. Approx. 40% of those who have been admitted to the institutions today, as children, have been in a 24-hour institution. It is of course in favour of us just looking at how we can take action in the past and how we can be better at preventing this crime from occurring. At the same time, we see that there is a more complex crime, we can say, and that there is a need for the asylum officers to have proper powers to solve the challenges they face when working with the inmates on a daily basis. This requires that they get more tools and get some more education. From the IA's point of view, we would very much like it to be a longer education, to give them more tools and to recognise that the inmates in Greenland at the asylums have enormously complex backgrounds, as inmates in the prisons in Denmark do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523142141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523142142	Of course, when the rapporteur mentions prevention, I agree. But it shows exactly the complexity of this, namely that prevention is a Greenlandic matter, while what is about the inmates when they are in the asylums, and the employees in the asylums, is a common matter between Greenland and Denmark. It just shows that this is complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523142211	Then we can thank the Socialist rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr President. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523142226	Thank you. And thank the Prime Minister for both the oral statement here and also for the one we received in writing in April. I thought both were good statements. Thank you, too, for this annual debate. As far as Greenland's economy is concerned, I would like to take this into account in particular during the next item on the agenda, which is a debate on questions F 22. It is specifically about Greenland's economy. However, as can be seen from both the written and oral statements, a constitutional text is being worked on both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and I agree with the government that the text reached must be possible within the Danish Empire's Basic Law. In Greenland, the process has indeed been set in motion to the extent that, unfortunately, important political issues are neglected. However, it is to be welcomed that the so-called Commission of Reconciliation ends up as what one could foresee it would end up as a blue light. I understand that three out of the five in the Commission are said to have gone and no Danish ministers will waste time on it. It cost 10 million, by the way. kr. to implement. Unfortunately, however, certain Greenlandic politicians, such as Mrs Aleqa Hammond, who were the initiator of the Commission for Reconciliation, have succeeded in doing so, Mr. Lars-Emil Johansen, Hans Enoksen and others to make large parts of Greenland's young people feel that the Greenlanders are victims and the Danes are their executioners; that the Greenlanders are a oppressed people. I meet these young people both here and in Greenland and always get deeply frustrated to hear them crying and whining in the same way as their political models instead of fresh and cowardly addressing the country's problems. And sometimes I want to say to them: " Get a grip! ' However, it is not only Greenlanders who seem to have jumped on it with the victim and hangman. There are also many Danish politicians who are falling over each other and their own legs to stand up at all times apologetic and hand-wringing to pay for all the injustices that Denmark has allegedly caused to Greenland. But I have to say here from this platform that if that is how you want to lie to your people to get them to demand independence, then I think it is outrageous. If you achieve independence by making your people despise Denmark and the Danish people, then I think it is both outrageous and inexpensive, unworthy of the kingdom community, unworthy of the Greenlandic Landsting and local government. I and the Danish People's Party have often been criticised for interfering in Greenland's policy. And yes, it is absolutely right that I do so at all times and with great joy. I am strongly indignant about things that are going on in Greenland, among other things. the miserable social situation which exists on the island in many places and for which autonomy has full responsibility. At the same time, I am angry at the nepotism of Greenland's policy, which favours those who creep before the national government; that one disregards critics of the system; and not least how one seeks to silence cumbersome news media. I believe, in fact, that I have the full right, indeed the duty, to react in these cases, partly because Greenland is made up of 55,000 Danish citizens, partly because Danish taxpayers are very much financing the enterprise. So I consider it my duty as an elected official to interfere in Greenlandic and Faroese politics whenever I want and as much as possible. In this connection, let me mention that I was in Britain three years ago in the days surrounding the Scottish independence vote, when I had many discussions with Scottish and British politicians. The question to which the electorate in Scotland should vote 'yes' or 'no' to was in all its harsh simplicity: should Scotland be an independent country? In other words, should the United Kingdom, which has actually existed since 1746, be dissolved? And I was thinking that an even older union, namely the Danish-Norwegian Atlantic Empire and later the kingdom of Denmark between Denmark and the Faroe Islands and Greenland, is also threatened with dissolution, and that a vote in Greenland similar to that in Scotland could also easily become topical. But there is a crucial and dramatic difference in the way politicians in Denmark look at this matter and how politicians in England and Scotland act. If you ask an overwhelming majority of Christiansborg's politicians, and if you ask changing governments, the answer is usually: If the Greenlanders want independence, we should not interfere with it, it is Greenland's own business. On the other hand, if you ask an overwhelming majority of Westminster politicians how they view Scottish independence, the answer will be: Keep the Union, preserve the Union, we must and must interfere. And then millions of pounds were raised to campaign in Scotland, because the Union had to and had to be preserved. In Westminster, therefore, it is not the least regrettable to be a supporter of the Union and to be ready to fight for the Union. But here in the Folketing it is considered doubtful that, quote, interfere with the decision of the Greenlanders as it is expressed. As if we Danes were not a member of the kingdom of Denmark. And in Westminster, across the parties, a strong, united unity was created precisely under the slogan Keep the Union, and politicians from England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, during this slogan, carried out thunderspeaks in Scotland up to the referendum. However, I am almost convinced that if the Greens vote were to come, the most sensitive politicians in the Danish parliament would be guaranteed to stay in all kinds of places other than Greenland. They will say that they are in favour of the Kingdom community, because we hear this every time, but they will never actively engage in the struggle to preserve the Kingdom community with their beaks and claws. They could easily seem colonial. In England, therefore, there is little embarrassment about fighting, advertising, advertising, speaking and writing in Scotland to preserve the union. It should be mentioned in this connection that the Scottish Nationalist Party's rotating presidents, Alex Salmond and Nicola Sturgeon, bid with open arms and warmly welcomed the British Union's supporters to Scotland for debate. I doubt that the Greenlandic politicians would look the same way at the matter that Salmond and Sturgeon are doing. There would probably be some who would welcome it, but the majority would be greatly outraged by the presence of goose-eyes in Danish interference. That is why I must stress once again that we Danes are therefore also a member of the Kingdom of Denmark. So if the accident should happen and a vote on Greenlandic or Faroese independence lies in favour, then it is my intention to call members of the Folketing to a founding meeting of the Keep the Union, or perhaps better preserve the kingdom. Then, across the parties, we can gather millions together for the campaign we are about to run in Greenland, and equip ourselves to participate actively in the campaign in Greenland as well as in the Faroe Islands prior to the vote. I can barely wait. Then why? Well, that's why we have a unique community built on history, tradition and trust, plus the fact that we are and become countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143103	There are some brief comments. First it's Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143108	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his speech, and good luck with the association. One might almost think that the rapporteur had also read the speech by the rapporteur. For some of the things I'm going to stress is that I don't feel like a victim. I do not feel oppressed, and there are many of us in Greenland who want there to be good governance, but also that we as Greenlandic representatives here in the Folketing must behave properly and be respected. It is, after all, a great job for us to do. Then I think it's important to remind Mr. Søren Espersen says that there are many of us who share that view in Greenland, and many who would like Greenland to have a better future. We also see many of the challenges we face today. So it's just to remind Mr. Søren Espersen says that he is allowed to interfere in the debate, but I also think it is important to remember that there are many different positions in Greenland and that this is not just an expression of the only position there is. Personally, I also believe that this debate which has followed the work of the Commission for Reconciliation, but also in the context of the debate on independence, is harmful.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143222	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143224	That was a comment. I don't really think there was a question. You don't have to. It's called a brief comment. But I am glad to hear that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen does not regard herself as a victim and Denmark as a hangman. I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143241	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143245	Thank you. That is a comment, because it is not so much a question. I'm gonna follow up on this with them and us. Because when you live in Greenland, you can experience that you e.g. as a Danish-speaking Greenlander, as I am, and as the group that I represent, is in fact the group that is in between and may sometimes also be most reproached. I would like to see us watching that we are 56,000 people in Greenland and that each and every one of us is needed to ensure a momentum for Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143319	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143321	Again, I have no answer. I also consider that to be a comment. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143327	We move on to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143331	I would like to say the same thing as my colleague. We certainly don't feel like victims. I certainly do not regard Denmark as a hangman either. We're a proud people. I am part of a proud people who are proud to be in favour of independence. It does not necessarily have anything to do with Denmark. To get involved, I think I'm totally okay, too. Because we are in favour of all aspects of universal human rights, including, among other things, human rights. freedom of speech and not discrimination based on skin colour and religion. We fully live up to that. We also think it is quite all right to have a position on a particular matter. As long as we belong together in the Kingdom, we must, of course, get involved in each other's affairs. I think that's perfectly natural until otherwise decided. When the rapporteur is so much in favour of the Kingdom Community, I would like to ask the rapporteur how he intends to make the Kingdom Community stronger.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143431	I think we have given many examples of this in this Parliament. On the other hand, I have rarely heard Greenlandic politicians tell from this platform what they could do for the Kingdom community. In fact, I never think that I have heard a Greenlandic politician stand out in full transparency and say: and what can we do to help? What we almost always hear from Greenland is, in my view, just wailing and whining about the situation that you are in. My position is, of course, that if you want independence and that is what many Greenlanders want, but fortunately there are also many people who do not want it, then you must go fresh and cowardly into that debate and then do yours to save the country financially instead of everything that goes on, I think there is no need to talk about independence, which in my view lies many, many years into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143529	Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143531	Yes, many, many years into the future, but it is a fact that Greenland will become independent in the future. It's a matter of time. Whether the rapporteur is whining or not whining is quite irrelevant. Each of us has always proposed how we could make the kingdom community stronger by making Denmark understand how important it is to prioritize the areas of Greenland that are under Danish jurisdiction, so that at least one can start working for a more equal kingdom community. What do you have to say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143608	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143609	But that is a good example of how I think it doesn't have to be. In other words, let us take the debate that has spawned here today even before I came to the floor, where problems with some American leftovers and so on are being dealt with immediately, which is certainly essential, but which is not something that needs to be resolved now and here. It is an example of tackling such things and complaining about Denmark's lack of effort on that and that and that area instead of taking your country and people's fate into your own hands and saying: Now we are taking hold of ourselves, now we want to create a country that has the opportunity to fend for itself. That's what I think there's a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143653	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143657	I was really scared when Mr. Knox... Søren Espersen took the floor. It sounded as if he had been employed as a spin doctor for the European Union and now we were about to collect money to defend the Union. I don't quite understand, sir. Søren Espersen's logic. One minute he is very, very critical of Unions, for example. The European Union, and the second moment he wants to defend a Union that does not actually exist, between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. We have a community of kingdoms, and that is something quite different, where we have actually given a great deal of autonomy to the countries and given them the right to decide for themselves the rate at which they want to develop their independence and the rate at which they want to take home tasks. I do not know how to explain it psychologically, but is there not a schism between one moment and the other that it was bad about the European Union, and the second moment to say that we must now defend a union in which the two countries in the Atlantic must conform to the conditions we think we should dictate, yes, rather than the conditions that Mr. Søren Espersen wants to dictate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143802	It is always very difficult and I think it is too many members of the Enhedslisten to understand what really lies in history, tradition and ancient culture. We are talking here about a Danish-Norwegian Atlantic Empire, which has been in existence for 1,000 years, a cohesion that cannot be compared in any way to what the European Union is, namely a clash with ancient nation states. I think that's why Mr. Christian Juhl doesn't even understand the difference. I don't think I can do it in these 30 seconds, but one day I could take a few hours of autopsy if he wanted to. It is also free of charge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143845	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143847	Yeah, I quite understand those historical things, but that's why it might be interesting to get a so-called "manufacturing" that means a one-way conversation. I'm just getting a little nervous now. Now it must be the Danish-Norwegian Union, that is, what the Norwegians call the 100-year butter, which will form the basis for the Faroe Islands and Greenland to be subject to. I believe that the Norwegians will pay for being closer to Denmark at the moment. They are, of course, quite well off, as we do, with the fact that we are independent states. I think that Mr. Søren Espersen must respect that those countries up there want their independence and that we must help them with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523143927	I guess that's what they call 400-year-night, as far as I remember, but don't worry about it. Yes, of course, the Greenlanders are allowed to want independence and to work for it too, but I reserve the right to fight against it because we are all members of the same kingdom. It is of course interesting how Enhedslisten interferes in every small tribal war in Peru, Venezuela, the Middle East and all sorts of different places. I know, sir. Christian Juhl is incredibly preoccupied with Western Sahara he meddles in everything all over the world, except in what is going on where he himself is a member, namely the kingdom of Denmark. Well, that's heartbreaking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144004	Then it's mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144009	Thank you. Sir. Søren Espersen, I just wanted to say to you that you should be very welcome to debate in the Faroe Islands. Actually, I think you can serve the Republican cause very well. So I would like to hear: how will you feel when, over the next two years, there will be some sort of situation in which you have to decide who to take into account in the negotiations on Britain's withdrawal from the European Union when it comes to fishing rights? If you have to choose between the Danish and Faroese interests, what will you choose?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144043	We must remember that we have a Rules of Procedure for the use of direct charges. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144048	Sir. Magni Arge knows that we in our party have always fought the best we could in terms of defending the interests of both the Faroe Islands and Greenland in terms of fishing territories, and we will continue to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144106	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144106-2	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen. Then there is just one small matter about the Danish kingdom in which I want to interfere a little, and that is that I think that Denmark should get its tax recovery under control, because it can become a burden for the whole kingdom if you have as little control as you have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144128	I'm not sure I understood the question. With the permission of the President, may I have it repeated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144132	The Rules of Procedure do not allow this to happen. I think there'll be other occasions. That is why we now move on to Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144147	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. Whether you agree or disagree, it is always good when you get some meat on the table, something you can relate to. Even if it's sharp, it's better than air. Touching is a bad thing, and when there is a fear of touch in a parliament, it is really bad, and I have to say that I sometimes sense it as Mr. Søren Espersen describes that there is a fear of touch. I sometimes sense that some people are holding back from saying their opinion, and this should not be the case in a parliament. But I don't think sir... Søren Espersen must be as afraid as he is that if it comes to a referendum you will not dare to say your opinion. After all, there was a referendum in the Faroe Islands back in 2000. At that time, Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen was on the Faroe Islands four times within a few months, traveling around the Faroe Islands and going too high and low, and things were adopted in this Chamber, which clearly went against what was wanted in the Faroe Islands, etc. So I don't think sir... Søren Espersen must be so afraid that you dare not say your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144253	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144254	Well, I'm very pleased. Actually, I wasn't aware of that, so I'm glad to hear that, sir. Poul Nyrup Rasmussen then as Prime Minister did. I am also sure that our current Prime Minister will be there if it takes place during his term of office, and it will certainly be, because there is a long time for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144315	Then we'll move on, and that's Mr. Knox. Bertel Haarder. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144321	I would like to join as a member of the association which the rapporteur wishes to establish. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for being the co-author of the proposal for adoption, which I believe will be adopted unanimously, and also for his speech. But I asked for the floor because I would like to ask the rapporteur if what is going to bear the Kingdom community in the future is love and mutual respect and common history and family ties. I am very fond of the Kingdom Community, and I believe that the ceiling will fall both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands and in Denmark, if the kingdom community is dissolved, and therefore it is important that we stick to love and mutual respect in particular. Therefore, allow me to ask the rapporteur, and that is friendly: does the rapporteur think that his remarks about Greenland and the Faroe Islands have always been marked by love and mutual respect over time? Because I don't always think it has been.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144433	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144435	I must say absolutely yes to that, and it is to a huge love for the Greenlandic and Faroese peoples. I have plenty of family relations in both places, and for me it has always been about the Greenlandic people. My struggles have been with Greenlandic politicians, whom I do not always think have lived up to what was their responsibility or their obligation, and that is in the same way as I am arguing in this Parliament against my political opponents. It's actually the same thing that happens. However, I would like to say yes to the question and thank you for your comments. We haven't had a membership card drawn up yet, but sir. Bertel Haarder can get membership no. 1. I think we can count on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144515	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his reply and I am pleased that I have obviously misunderstood the rapporteur on previous occasions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144523	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144528	Thank you to the rapporteur for his passionate speech. The kingdom community and its construction also relate to the conditions of the individual citizens of the respective nations or states, understood in the sense that just as you should feel welcome in Greenland, Greenlanders and Faroese people should also feel welcome in Denmark. The latest reports show, when we are talking about Greenlanders in Denmark, that 40% are experiencing discrimination at all levels, from leadership positions to the most vulnerable lowest in society. I did not hear much about this in the rapporteur's speech. I would like to hear how the rapporteur feels about the fact that our good colleague is talking about love and mutual respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144628	In general, I think we should behave with each other on a personal level. That does not mean that political matters cannot be discussed. But in everyday life, it has to be decent and dignified as to how to deal with one another as a human being, and I have always been in favour of that. Moreover, there are a great many Greenlanders who, from a Greenlandic point of view, unfortunately go to Denmark to live. Here they should be welcome, as what I am saying is compatriots, that is, with Danish passports. But the reasons why they are fleeing Greenland on a large scale are, of course, the ones they really should be addressing, especially from Greenland, and I think they are neglecting that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144712	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144715	I'm not sure I got the answer to my question. So there are also a large number of Greenlanders and Faroese people who go to Denmark to train themselves. It is not because they are fleeing from things that are intolerable, but simply to become wiser and contribute to the economy, both here and at home. So I really want more what the Danish People's Party is doing about thinking about helping the situation, that there is so much discrimination in Denmark that is not just the responsibility of the individual, but it is also the responsibility of the nation to act on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144751	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144753	I would say that there are people in the personal relationship who are not behaving properly and dignifiedly, and I am very much in favour of that being done. I don't know if you can make laws in this way politically against people's stupidity. But nobody wants anything but to behave with each other. So there is a large exodus from Greenland, and it is far, far larger than the one taking place from the Faroe Islands, where there is also a net migration to Denmark. So it is a problem, and it is not only educators, but it is also people who leave, perhaps because the social level in Greenland is not equal to what we have in Denmark. That's also a reason.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144836	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144839	Thank you. I could not help but note the rapporteur's various calls for Denmark and Danish politicians to interfere as much as possible in matters relating to Greenland and the Faroe Islands. In general, I do not hear the rapporteur's party being reluctant to say that other countries in other good communities, such as the European Union, must keep their hands off Denmark. I sometimes hear that party say that. Can the rapporteur tell us a little about the link between the different communities, that is to say that Denmark in a community must interfere as much as possible in the affairs of others, while as many as possible in another community must stay away from Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144927	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144928	In general, I think it is never a very good idea for EU politicians to get on a voyage to Denmark shortly before a Danish election. I think there have been some examples of this. But here it is quite different. Here it is politicians like all of us here, with whom many in Greenland and the Faroe Islands know and have a relationship, and that will of course be a different situation. I have no objection whatsoever to people from EU countries coming to give fire speeches in Denmark. Suit yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523144957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145000	So that means that in future there will be such a little more coherence in the call you make in relation to what you are like in a community, in other words that you share common interests? Do you want the same line in relation to how you propose to behave in different communities?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145023	I don't understand, sir. Kristian Hegaard says. Because I never think that there have been examples of us from the Danish People's Party asking for a foreign politician to come to Denmark and give a speech, that is, an EU politician who has some sort of political errand. I don't think that ever happened. I myself do not care how many people come and speak here. As long as it isn't any speeches calling for violence and other degenerates, people should be welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145051	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145054	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which I found very inspiring and passionate indeed. That was really nice. I just managed to get in here at the end, because I was actually nervous about whether there might be a misunderstanding or some sort of confusion about what the rapporteur calls an anxiety about, and then what some of the fellow Members of the rapporteur might actually feel as a sincere desire for increased self-determination and increased autonomy for all parts of the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145134	No, that is, of course, a feeling that I have had for many years that many Danish politicians are afraid of touching when it comes specifically to Greenland. I have nothing to feel except for a feeling, but I also know that that feeling has also been felt. Sjúrður Skaale in the Faroe Islands, namely that this was the trend. That doesn't make any sense. In other words, there is a fear of many Danish politicians for sounding colonialist-like... it is simply the worst word of reproach you can get, it is worse than all sorts of other scolding. And I think it is nonsense not to enter into a real political discussion about something that is going on within our own community, which is the kingdom of Denmark, and do it with brisk and bram and say what you mean, and not just what you hope the Greenlanders will have you say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145224	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145227	Thank you. I think we can all agree with this debate, but has the rapporteur perhaps considered whether there could also be parliamentary politicians who actually wanted more self-determination and independence for all parts of the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145242	Absolutely. Well, you're free to mean it. I just have the feeling that the vast majority of Danish politicians here in our Parliament are actually some who would like to see the Kingdom community preserved. But from there and then to take an active fight for the preservation of the kingdom community and interfere in the discussion that is taking place in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, there is a long way to go, and there we are not yet there I hope we will come.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145311	Then we can thank Mr. Søren Espersen, who has been through the brief remarks. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523145321	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement, which I think is much more encouraging and kind and concrete than it has been when we discussed it in the past. I think that is a good thing, because it is as if not only the Minister, but we all recognise the problems that exist, but also recognise the opportunities that can actually arise if we help each other, not least with the serious situation in Greenland. I would like to start with this, because the economic situation is serious when so much money comes from Denmark. After all, it would be desirable for every society to have democracy and the opportunity to develop their own country. That is the way I feel at least, and I can hear that Mr. Søren Espersen is not satisfied with it and that you fight for the greatest possible independence and democracy for all people. I will support that and then it does not matter whether they live in Catalonia, in the Basque Country, in Western Sahara or in Palestine. It is now such a principle that I have, and I think that is a good principle. I am also in favour of decentralizing power in Denmark, for example, regardless of whether Mr. Søren Espersen could do campaigns for that reason. That is why I also support those people in Greenland who aim to be independent. I think it's a very, very nice and honorable goal that you can be master of your own house and decide for yourself. If I were to make a few critical points about the development in Greenland and where I would like to make a call to the politicians in Greenland, it is especially in relation to the problems that are still absent with socially vulnerable children and young people in Greenland. It is not acceptable that the situation is such and we have to repeat that if Greenland thinks that there is something that Denmark can do financially or in terms of resources, then we have to do so. Up to one third of Greenlandic children should not live in miserable conditions or be abused or otherwise have a life that is not proper. It does not belong in the Kingdom community, and that is why we have to make such good offers that Greenland uses those offers and that we work our way out of that situation. Then there is the inequality in Greenland. As a socialist, I am in favour of combating inequality, and I can see that inequality in Greenland is rapidly increasing. There is a very, very large difference between the poorest in the settlements and the richest in Nuuk, who have made sure that they have a good life that is fully equal to the Danish one. And it is important to pay attention to this, because although there are economic problems in the country, it is important that we also work on the issue of inequality. The second point I would like to make is, of course, the big question of uranium. I and the Enhedslist will support Greenlanders who think that policy should be pursued with zero tolerance, which means that uranium is not being dug up. We have enough problems in the world with nuclear bombs and nuclear weapons, as they actually call it modernisation, and there is no need for more uranium to be delivered to the world market. On the contrary, I would like our government instead of helping the United Nations to ban the nuclear weapons that some countries have fortunately taken responsibility for trying to make a new decision in the United Nations. Unfortunately, the Danish chair is empty. Another issue is the Thule contract, which has been dealt with. I think it is important that we say: Now we will soon have something concrete on the table. I do not have much optimism about the government's ability to find a good solution to this. I think the government's gonna have to get the wallet because this is gonna end badly. Nor is there much to suggest that the Americans are giving in here. The very last story is that it seems that the Royal Arctic Line is now losing transports to Thule; it seems that the Americans will take them home. Although Royal Arctic Line can do it for half price, the Americans say they have more confidence that an American company also stands for deliveries to Thule. I think that is very, very problematic and I would like to hear the Minister's opinion on what the hell we should do about it. Fortunately, Camp Century has become visible to a lot of people, and I think it is important that we push here. I do not think there is any reason for the Prime Minister, as he said in his oral report, to wait because it may well take 10 years before the low-radioactive waste begins to seep with the melt water to places where it can do great damage. I think we should try to make some arrangements about what we need to clean up and how we can do it, and then we have to figure out how to pay the bill and take the problems in terms of how serious they are. Well, some rusty barrels at Tasiilaq may not be as big a problem to tackle as this low-radioactive waste, which is why it is important that there is an overview and a priority. Then I would also like to point to the municipal officers. I think it is important that we continue to work on this. I actually feel that having one municipal bailiff in a village must be hard. I mean, if some people went a little crazy on a Saturday night, maybe it was nice to be two to do that job, and then you had to make sure that in all the settlements there was a place where you could make them cool down again. We must continue to work on this problem, as must the police in Greenland. We all know that there has been work on proper telephone connections so that you can actually contact each other all over Greenland. That is also a problem. Then I would say that in the Faroe Islands things are improving immediately and with a 50 per cent increase in revenue. From 2012 to 2016, first of all from fish, well then it is almost a luxury problem we are talking about, and therefore I understand that confidence is great in the Faroe Islands. I also understand that two new tunnels need to be built now, so there is also work for those building workers who may have skills in this direction. And I think that's going quite well, so there's not much that can beat a fucking stick right in these years. That is why the whole debate on the constitutions is also important. I dream of a situation where we will have a kingdom with three independent kingdoms or three independent states. It would be a real kingdom community. I don't think you should cry about it if it's the form we're going to reach at some point. On the contrary, it will be much more equal than it is today. That is why I find the work of the Constitution exciting, and I will be very happy to follow it. And I have no imagination to imagine how it should develop, so that it is contrary to the Constitution. I don't think that talk is content. If the Prime Minister wants to continue with that talk, he has to explain how the initiatives in the Faroe Islands and Greenland can be contrary to the Danish constitution when we have an agreement with them that they can become self-employed if they wish. In principle, this cannot be contrary to the Danish constitution. I therefore look forward to how the two countries will formulate their new constitutions. I think we might even be inspired by it. Since none of them seem to be planning to form kingdoms, I will look in particular at how they will deal with the alternative to a king. I think this is really, really exciting, because it could be that in Denmark we could get inspiration to form the Republic of Denmark. After all, international agreements are important, and it is important that we continue to work intensively to ensure that Faroese and Greenlanders sit at as many tables as possible every time it has to do with their territory. We must also respect the fact that there are sometimes different interests between Greenland and the Faroe Islands and that we must therefore try to find a way of incorporating it when we negotiate internationally, both in relation to quotas, but also in relation to all the other things. Then the Faroese would like to be a member of the Nordic Council. I think that is a good idea and I have supported it in the Nordic Council. I think that Denmark should make a great effort to say that of course they can be a full member of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council. That would be very sensible, especially in the form of the Nordic Council. There's no reason they're not. Then there are the climatic conditions. It is extremely important that we work everywhere, and especially in Arctic cooperation, to preserve the climate that exists, but also to make the Arctic nuclear weapons free. It's crazy that we have such unstable presidents with a finger so close to the red button that could trigger a disaster. I am not only thinking of Trump, I am also thinking of Putin, and I am also thinking of Pakistan and Israel. There are plenty of countries that should not have nuclear weapons, and we should simply make sure that they were gone. There we could start with the North, and we could start with the Arctic and say that we will have no nuclear weapons there. If we did that, we would take a huge cross-border step. Now I didn't get to talk about the defense and the police and the continental shelf and the charts, which aren't finished yet. I think it's a scandal. But I'm sure we'll talk about that sometime. I have a proposal for adoption which I would like to read out: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament considers that an equal and respectful cooperation between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland benefits all three countries in the Kingdom Community. The Folketing recognises that the Faroe Islands and Greenland are free to work with their own constitutions. The Danish Parliament urges the government to stay informed about the economic challenges facing the Faroe Islands and Greenland in ensuring sustainable and sustainable social development and contributing actively to the promotion of investment in all parts of the Kingdom Community. The Danish Parliament notes an increased international interest in the Arctic and the North Atlantic and calls for increased efforts to benefit all parties and for cooperation on foreign and security policy between Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland to continue to be a priority in accordance with the principles of the Fámjin and Itilleq Declarations and the Kingdom of Denmark's strategy for the Arctic 2011-2020. In order to promote the development of the Kingdom Community, Parliament calls for cooperation between the three countries to be strengthened and continued to be given priority. • V 111).
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150431	This is then part of the further debate. The first to have a brief comment is Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150436	The rapporteur says that he supports independence for Greenland, and in much the same breath, the rapporteur lists a number of issues, including the increasing inequality. Can the rapporteur really see that the inequality can be overcome by avoiding the national community, bypassing the block subsidy granted by Denmark in support of Greenland? The rapporteur also mentioned the municipal managers, and this is precisely one of the areas where Denmark goes in and works very closely with Greenland. Without the Commonwealth, there would not even be municipal officers. Does the rapporteur have a realistic view of an independent Greenland which could actually tackle the problems outside the Kingdom community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150521	The last question is too comprehensive for me to answer it in 50 seconds. I'll tell you what. However, I would like to say briefly that I see no contradiction between having a vision for one's country about independence and then working on the day-to-day practical problems. We do that at home, too. Although Søren Espersen mentioned that I was not interested in it, I actually work with the daily problems every day precisely to promote the vision I have for the Denmark in which I live. I do not think that the Greenlanders think they should be self-employed next year. I don't think many people in Greenland think so. It is a long-term project which, of course, means that they have to balance their economy, have some sources of income that are stable. This also applies to the Faroe Islands. But the desire to decide and have your foot under your own table, or whatever you say, lies deep in all people. It should not be overlooked just because there are problems in a country. There have also been problems in Denmark. We've been pretty much pawned at some point. At that time we also dreamed of being an independent country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150624	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150625	I have great respect for such visions, if that's what you want. However, given the economic situation in Greenland right now, where it is very, very clear that there will not be economic autonomy within a foreseeable period, is it not more sensible to stress what we can do to strengthen the economy, rather than this endless debate on political autonomy, which is still not realistic in the short term? Shouldn't we rather use the energy? Søren Espersen mentioned the 10 million. kr. that is being used on the commission to look at how we can strengthen e.g. investment opportunities across Denmark and Greenland in the Kingdom Community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150707	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150708	After all, the rapporteur of the Left accused me of pointing out a whole lot of problems which I think should be resolved. So, yes, of course we must help solve the problems. That is why you can walk on two legs: have a vision and solve problems at the same time, including economic problems. Nobody says it should be next year either. So don't take that discussion like that. Try to handle it inside your head that it's possible to have a dream. Perhaps it is the driving force for getting out of the present problems. I just pointed out the inequality. I have just pointed out the problems of children in Greenland as tasks that we need to help solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150742	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150744	In a chronicle today in Jyllands-Posten, the Prime Minister writes that Greenland wants to have a greater influence on foreign policy, and that it is Denmark that conducts foreign policy on behalf of the kingdom. That is not quite correct. Greenland has foreign competence in all areas of responsibility, especially fisheries, which the Prime Minister mentions in his chronicle. That is why Greenland has its own fisheries agreements with other countries, among others. The EU, Norway, Canada and Russia and other countries, bypassing Denmark. That is why I would like to point out once again that Greenland already has the foreign competence and the right of negotiation in all areas of responsibility. It is said all the time that you want to help strengthen the economy in Greenland. Why don't you start by investing in the areas that are directly Danish responsibility, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Are there any other areas that the rapporteur believes it could be important to address?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150851	Thank you. I fully agree that Greenland itself has an influence on foreign policy in the repatriated areas and is working in a joint effort. I think it's getting better and better. It is more and more often that we manage to get together, so that there is one from Greenland, one from the Faroe Islands and one from Denmark when we sit in international forums and have to take a position. I know that sometimes there is only one chair, but there I am in favour of Greenland and the Faroe Islands being given the greatest possible influence. As far as revenue is concerned, I am very aware that there is a great deal of revenue from the service agreement that is now slipping away, as is the case with an agreement for Royal Greenland, that is to say, shipping, where transport is losing up to Thulebasen, because the Americans themselves will stand for it. In this way, we must constantly defend both the sources of income that exist and try to look for new ones. When Iceland can get as good revenue as it has received in less than a 10-year period, it is not unrealistic that Greenland can actually do the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150955	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523150955-2	Love and mutual respect are mentioned several times when we talk about the Kingdom community, and very often we hear it over and over again in debates. But it's not enough to have love and respect. It's empty words if there's no action behind it. Nor do I think that we see much love and respect in the 32 areas that are directly under Danish jurisdiction in order to promote these, which are very neglected today. Does Enhedslisten have an idea of how to strengthen love and respect for Greenland on the Danish issues as it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151037	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151038	Yeah, I mentioned a couple of them. I now usually talk about a little different concepts, for example. It is more natural for me to have equal rights and solidarity. For example: What I mentioned about the villagers is not quite a super arrangement. The judicial system isn't working properly yet. I know you can use Skype and everything else when you interrogate people, but it's not the same thing. I also know that there are major transport problems that need to be resolved. So there's plenty to do where we can help each other and where we can contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151115	Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151117	Thank you. The rapporteur spoke a little about the problem of referring to the constitution when something cannot be done. I also find this problematic, and I would like to explain a little why it is being said in the Faroe Islands. Sometimes the arguments when referring to the Constitution are political arguments that are camouflaged with law. That's how you experience it many times. At the time it was said that it was impossible under the Constitution to have a system of home government with the powers that one has today. Then it was politically necessary, and then they did it anyway. It was once said that it was against the constitution that the Faroe Islands took over the underground, but when it became politically necessary, they did so anyway. It was not possible under the Constitution to take over the people's church... its relationship had to be regulated by a parliament law... but it became necessary politically, and so it was made possible. In this way, we have constantly moved beyond the framework of the Constitution, and then it has become apparent that the arguments used in referring to the Constitution were actually political arguments. That is why the rapporteur makes a good point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151223	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151224	Thank you. That is also why I have the approach that I actually look forward to hearing about the debate that is coming because I think it is always inspiring and liberating when people or people say that now they will try to discuss how they can be self-employed and decide more where they live and where they live. I only have that approach, and I am very much looking forward to the two processes that are going to run. When countries such as the United States, for example, The Faroe Islands also make a little rebellion, as they have done historically and topically, so I think it is liberating and healthy, also for the Kingdom community, that is to say that one has a little debate and not just bows and says: yes, sir. Søren Espersen, every time a command is given.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151309	Sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151310	Thank you. Then I'll just make one more point. There are some people in the debate who seem to think that autonomy and community are contradictions. This is not the case in the Faroe Islands; it is not the case in the Faroe Islands. There is a very overwhelming majority for the Kingdom community in the Faroe Islands, and it has never been as large as it is now; but at the same time there is a great desire for autonomy. These are not contradictions. The more autonomy you have in the Faroe Islands, the more you feel comfortable in the community, the stronger the community becomes. So the two complement each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151345	Yes, but that way I think the Faroese and Greenlanders are doing just the right thing. So, the bourgeois can ask themselves what kind of reactions they get at meetings in the municipalities, i.e. in both the old and the new municipalities. There are still many left-wing voices that have disappeared precisely because, in a very short time, one should have a new structure without having a debate with people about what they really want close to themselves and what they want far away from themselves. People want to influence what is close to them and have most of the closest possible to themselves and have as much democracy as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151420	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151421	Thank you very much for your contribution. Now it is the case that the service contract at Pituffik is in the process of moving to Exelis Services, an American company. In the last few days, we have also seen that a new contract from the American side appears to be going to an American company. The American Embassy here in Copenhagen has therefore stated that it is the US first, that is to say, that it is a company that sails under American flags. And that's interesting because it's a shift, you might say, in American foreign policy and especially when it comes to activities in Greenland. On the Greenland side, of course, we are concerned that tax revenues are going to the right place. And it can be said that when the work is done in Greenland, it also makes great sense that taxes are paid to Greenland. I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151521	I fully agree, and I am opposed both to a principle called the US first, and for that matter also to Denmark first, if anyone would say so. Because I believe that cooperation is about treating one another equally, and if there are some areas that have major economic problems, such as: Greenland, then we must jointly try to fight to preserve the economy that has existed, for example. from the sailing, but also through the service agreement, and I hope that the Prime Minister will say in a moment that he will make contact with the Americans and say: what is this? We cannot develop Greenland together if it is the case that the Americans think only of themselves. Such selfishness does not lead to much cooperation and much equality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151606	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151607	Thank you very much. Another issue is foreign policy, as the rapporteur also mentioned. One can dare to claim that foreign policy is domestic policy, that is to say that although we conduct foreign policy in repatriated areas in Greenland, there are also some interests that Denmark, on behalf of the Kingdom Community, must take care of on behalf of Greenland and on behalf of the Faroe Islands. As my Faroese colleague, Sjúrður Skaale, mentioned earlier, it can be said that the better dialogue, which is internal, the better one can also stand together externally. How can we ensure enhanced cooperation as things stand here and now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151648	I could, for example. Imagine that we said more often: Well, it is not important that it is someone from Denmark who sits if there is only one chair to sit on when we negotiate. It might as well be one from Greenland or one from the Faroe Islands. It is important, at any rate, every time it is discussed very clearly where we stand on the various issues, that the unequal interests that may exist are quite clear and that all the interests are now on the table, so that it is not Denmark first in such negotiations. So it is very, very important that we prepare the negotiations and that we actually give each other equal space in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151724	Sir. Magni Arge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151726	Thank you. It was a rare announcement from the rapporteur that he would like to see three independent entities working together in the future. I would just like to say that it was a fresh piece of information and a fresh statement that we received. Does the rapporteur have an assessment of how long it will take to get more people in the Parliament to support such a development?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151801	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151802	I'm a member of a revolutionary party. We believe that things can take place in leaps and that means that you don't have to drive on a straight line, because it will be really, really long if the developments that have been in the Folketing are to determine these things. But there are leaps taking place, and at the time when Greenland, for example, is taking place. have a very good and strong independent economy, and where the Faroe Islands have a very long period of time, where they say they can withstand everything that comes, then I also think that the attitude will change here. The same is true when you have made your proposals for new constitutions and the Folketing is no longer afraid of the wordings you can make. In fact, I think something is starting to happen in many places. I also think that the debates man to woman and woman to man and for that matter man to man are also much more nuanced than they are here. I think this is a very sharp way of discussing it in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151859	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151900	I would just like to say a few words about how much support there really is for independent development in the Faroe Islands. Various studies are referred to. I can say that the very last study shows that there is a majority of the Faroese population for the Faroe Islands to become an independent country and that there is in fact more than 90%. by the Faroese people who believe that it is the Faroese people who should exercise their right of self-determination, also in relation to whether to be in the Kingdom community or not. It's just to make it clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151935	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151937	Well, if I lived in the Faroe Islands, I'd have exactly the same attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523151939	Thank you, sir. Christian Juhl. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152000	It'll only take five minutes, but we really want you to stay a little longer. It could have been an advertising spot for a Danish store chain, but it could also be an advertising spot for the Kingdom community. Because it only takes five minutes to leave the Kingdom, but we really want you to stay a little longer. It is, of course, mostly addressed to our four North Atlantic members in the Assembly. Because there's more in the bag, if I may say so. We can make a lot more of each other's company. There is plenty of mutual inspiration between Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. As you can probably imagine, we in the Liberal Alliance understand the breaking-out urge and the desire for independence, and therefore we also want to support the ongoing development towards increased self-determination and constitutionalisation in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But we are also very pleased that the Faroese Layerman has indicated that a future Faroese constitution will be within the framework of the Kingdom Community and that the intention is not to leave such a community. So the Liberal Alliance wants to maintain a strong, inspiring and cooperative Kingdom community. The inspiration could, for example, be: be in relation to the implementation of economic reforms, pension reforms, level of public investment, labour force mobility, fish farming, business cooperation and development in general. The aim of the latter must be to create a move away from publicly owned monopolies towards a business sector driven by free market forces. It must be ensured that a multi-faceted economic development takes place, particularly in the areas of fisheries, aquaculture, tourism and raw materials. Personally, I would say that I am very excited to follow the development of the extraction of rubies in Greenland. There is a challenge associated with the non-harmonizing demands of the Kingdom and other Arctic coastal states for the expansion of the continental socks of their respective countries in the Arctic. I believe in a positive outcome of the final negotiations on the division of the area north of the Faroe Islands......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... A faster and more flexible model of treatment will be a pious desire from here. Finally, I would just like to say that I find it satisfactory that an agreement has been reached on the launch of a number of new studies and assessments of Camp Century, that in the context of the 2017 Rate Pool Agreement, funds have been set aside for effective support for vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark and funds for strengthened cooperation and professional sparring between Danish and Greenlandic authorities in the field of social supervision, and that an agreement has been reached on strengthening the Ministry of Defence's task solution in the Arctic, including a strengthened preparedness for marine environmental clean-up. Finally, thank you very much to the Prime Minister for a very thorough written statement and a fine presentation in this Chamber. The statement has been noted and the Liberal Alliance supports the motion for a resolution tabled by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152405	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152410	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to acknowledge that over the last few years a number of results have been achieved together in this Parliament, and some of what we are collecting as a politician are also results. I have made a small post-it-wall inside my office.The rapporteur is welcome to come in and look at where I collect all the small victories that are seen from a Greenlandic perspective. So the question to the rapporteur is: how can we continue to strengthen these various areas? How can we continue to produce results? The rapporteur mentions that there is more in the bag of something that we would like to work for, so I would like to know whether the rapporteur will reveal what is in the bag and how we can strengthen the various areas for which we are responsible here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152504	Thanks for inviting me to come in and see your post-it wall. We in the Liberal Alliance even have some traditions of celebrating political victories, and they are a little bit about strawberry cake and also a little bit of good to drink. Maybe we should try to take it with us when we have to look at your post-it wall. However, I would like to say that there may not be so much new, other than that we must continue the constructive dialogue between Denmark and Greenland, and that I also made clear to you that the cooperation on new areas that can be taken home by Greenland's self-government will be extended to the extent that Greenland believes it is relevant and that both parties are also ready for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152552	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152554	Thank you very much. I think we're gonna skip the champagne, but come by and have a look. The comments to the Self-Government Act state in seven different places that we must work for a standard which corresponds to that which is in Denmark. And you can say that if Greenland takes the various areas home, it may well be that you choose to deal with it in a different way than the way that Denmark is doing it today. It is a premise that must be taken into account. But there is at least a huge amount of work to be done to ensure a proper standard in the various areas, among others. in the field of justice;
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152629	That is absolutely right, and I think it has also been stated that there must be adjustments in relation to Greenlandic conditions. The most recent thing I can remember from memory we have discussed has been the legislation on working conditions, where there may have been some things that were not 100% updated in relation to the Greenland authorities, and therefore there were some things that were not at the same level in Greenland as they are in Denmark. And it is clear that there is of course also a need to pay attention to quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152658	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152701	Thank you. It was about the whole Kingdom thing. It has been discussed whether it is historically a wealthy unit, that is, where one has to speak with one voice, regardless of the position one has in the hierarchy, or whether it is a real kingdom community. Now we have ended up with the nice word when we use it in Denmark. However, does the rapporteur not agree that if it were three independent nations that worked equally, then there was more kingdom community in it than now, where there is one state, namely Denmark, and then two, what should one call it, with autonomy, but which are not independent states?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152745	I do not believe that the Commonwealth, and I think that the past also shows us this, is necessarily a static entity and, as I also said, I have a great understanding of the need for greater self-determination and independence, and it wants both myself and the Liberal Alliance to support both the Greenlandic people and the people of the Faroe Islands in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152807	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152809	Does the rapporteur consider that it is an insurmountable problem that Greenland should be able to have an economy that can bear itself within, for example, the environment? Ten years? I believe that we have seen Iceland develop its economy to such an extent, so you think it is a lie, and they were even in the midst of a deep, deep crisis in which the banks experienced a total implosion, but yet they are on their feet today with an immensely large income from, for example,. tourism and fisheries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152838	It can be hard to see the future. Sir. Christian Juhl himself referred to the concept of jumping or disruption from the platform, and as Mr. Christian Juhl may be aware that disruption is something that we in the Liberal Alliance really have very great faith in and an eye for, and situations could easily arise, including in the Greenland economy, which could develop in leaps and bounds, and that could, even in the time horizon that Mr. Christian Juhl describes, developing very positively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152911	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523152921	Thank you for that, President. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement that was exciting to read and hear today. I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to talk about the Kingdom Community, both about how things are going and about how the Kingdom Community is going to be in the future. In the alternative, we support if the peoples of Greenland and the Faroe Islands want independence, and I think we should do as much as possible and what we can to support them all in this work. That is why we are also pleased that the constitutional work in the Faroe Islands and Greenland again has a place in the statement. We are very pleased that the government is expressing its desire for cooperation, dialogue and support in the work on the constitutions. We can only support that. As my good colleague, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, said last year, then work must be supported by a targeted process in order to create real self-determination, real autonomy. If the people want to continue to participate in the Kingdom community, but on equal or more equal terms, then of course we also support it. Basically, we think that we should have much more focus on knowledge about the kingdom community, knowledge about culture, in our own country, Denmark, and in teaching in the country. One point which is mentioned only very fleetingly in the statement, or which could at least have been given more focus, is climate change and, above all, their enormous impact on Greenland and on the Greenlandic population. Ice and permafrost melt, threaten infrastructure and affect life in Greenland. There are many examples. I do not think anyone in this Chamber is in any doubt that the seriousness of man-made climate change is pushing globally, and not least in Greenland. The decommissioned American base, Camp Century, which has been mentioned several times, is another example of what it can mean when the ice melts. Despite the fact that DF's rapporteur believes that this is not something we need to take a position on right now, it is therefore environmentally hazardous waste which is 30-75 metres below the ice and which can be exposed and perhaps even leaked out with waste water within a few years. I still think it is necessary to establish whether Camp Century is a defence area in relation to the 1951 agreement and its rules on waste or not. And if the government believes that Camp Century is a defence area, when was it and by what rules? How much time does the government really need to spend on resolving the legal issues of clean-up responsibilities? It's been going on for almost a year now. How long is this gonna take? I'd like to get the PM to answer that. We often hear that climate change is not going to affect us very much here in Denmark, but when part of the Kingdom community is as directly affected as Greenland already is, it should be another argument for Denmark to take the lead when it comes to a green, sustainable and ambitious climate policy. In fact, I find it embarrassing that these challenges are not taken seriously. In this context, it is gratifying to see that there are so many research projects and collaborations taking place among the Nordic countries in the Arctic Council and in the Kingdom Community. The temperature rises twice as fast in the Arctic as the global average temperature, the sea ice is receding, and conditions are changing for the peoples of the Arctic. At the same time, new shipping routes, new opportunities for mining and fishing, call for an urgent need to find solutions: monitoring the consequences of increased activity in the Arctic, monitoring pollution and new agreements that ensure people in the Arctic and the Arctic environment. Again, I would like to commend the great scientific work being done, including in Greenland, to create the best possible knowledge base so that we politicians have something to act on and speak from. A few good projects that I personally have come across and want to highlight are Greenland Perspective, which explores the possibilities of using nutrient-rich mud from Greenland to tormented soils around the world. This is a good example of how the unique environment in Greenland and the Arctic can be used to create better conditions, a better world. There are also other projects including extraction of unique enzymes that have interesting perspectives. However, it is important to stress that when companies and researchers extract minerals and raw materials in the Arctic, including Greenland, this must be done in respect of the environment and people. Basically, it is clear that if you want to help Greenland, it will not be possible to relax your ambitions in relation to global climate action. Therefore, I do not understand that when the government and DF talk about the fact that we would very much like to have a warm and strong kingdom community and strong parties within this kingdom community, it is not being wagered and that it is not being recognised that then the Arctic and Greenland's climate challenges are central to Denmark. In the alternative, we have a lot of proposals on how to meet these climate challenges; proposals that are often shot down by the government, despite the fact that these proposals also benefit the Kingdom community and the challenges that climate change brings. I am more lacking in the fact that the disastrous development we see in the Arctic is recognised as a global problem, that is, as our problem and not a local problem in the Arctic. Our behavior, including Denmark, has a direct impact on the warming in the Arctic. Therefore, consideration of the Arctic must be given to all our policies. It is not enough to initiate isolated initiatives. We need a radical change in our production and consumption patterns. Denmark should not use its influence in the Arctic to ensure that we just have our narrow interests taken into account. We should take the lead in stopping the heating of the Arctic. I would therefore like us to give more active support to sustainable development projects and also to socially and environmentally sustainable mining and the development of renewable energy sources. We must ensure that development in Greenland and our investments help ensure sustainable development for people and nature. I would also have liked to see the report focus more on the social and economic conditions of the community's inhabitants. It is no secret, as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also says, that certain parts of the community have massive social and economic challenges. We need to focus more on them. As I asked the DF's rapporteur to comment, we also have challenges at home in Denmark, and I do not believe that this is the responsibility of the individual citizen. I also believe that the state should take the lead in ensuring that we have an enlightened population that takes into account the parties who travel here from the Kingdom Community. It is essential for the alternative that we ensure that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area. I am therefore pleased that the government is stressing the importance of the Ilulissat Declaration. We are not interested in great political rivalry and geopolitical interest, let alone in the fact that this will happen at the expense of the local population and, above all, at the expense of the climate. It is therefore also positive that the European Union has now drawn up a genuine Arctic policy which, among other things, includes: focuses on climate change and on sustainable development. I hope that the government will take this into account when drawing up its new international strategy and foreign policy. Finally, I would like to know how the government specifically envisages the Paris Agreement in cooperation within the Kingdom Community. And also in the context of the new foreign policy: how do we involve concrete representatives of the other countries of the Kingdom to provide input, or how do we ensure that they are constantly consulted in this process? There is no doubt that the development of the Arctic and the Kingdom Community creates both new challenges and new opportunities, and we hope that Denmark will maintain a course towards creating economic, social and environmental sustainable development with respect for both indigenous peoples and peoples. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523153830	There are brief comments. First, it is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523153836	Thank you very much. In relation to climate change, I represented Parliament last week. We had a lot of Arctic parliamentarians from all over the Arctic, a representative of each parliament who visited Kangerlussuaq and saw the ice sheet. We brought with us a researcher who also told us that there are actually parts of the melting of the ice sheet that we do not know about, that is why it does what it does. It really stressed the need for us to gather the knowledge that there is and the research that is going on. It is, of course, a Greenlandic responsibility, but how can we here from the Folketing help to support that we gather the knowledge that there is about how climate change affects the Arctic and thus the rest of the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523153927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523153930	As I said in my speech, I think it is important that we constantly focus on how we can support research and this development of knowledge in the Arctic. I do not know whether the rapporteur himself has any concrete initiatives, otherwise we have described some which I would like to convey to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523153949	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523153957	I would very much like to share knowledge about what is in the field of research, but there is surprisingly much research going on in Greenland, I would say, and much of that is not necessarily something that the ordinary Greenlander or, for that matter, the ordinary Dane knows very much about. So it might be interesting to see how to strengthen it. I know that the Arctic Council is also working to make it easier, just as Naalaksuisut has also taken a number of initiatives to strengthen the mobilisation of Greenlandic students around the Arctic, but also that researchers can come to Greenland and Greenlandic researchers can come out and tell about climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154035	Thank you. We need the bodies we have as the Arctic Council. I would like to commend the government and the Danish Shipowners' Association, which play a positive role in creating better environmental regulation of international shipping, and it is again these organisations and cooperation that we need. In particular, I would like to highlight the positive signal to ban the very environmentally harmful heavy bunker oil, which is also banned in Antarctica.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154102	Then it's mr. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154104	Thank you. It is because the rapporteur mentioned in connection with Camp Century that he could not understand why it was not taken seriously, and that is what I am here about. The Prime Minister's statement states: "The Danish authorities are in dialogue with the Greenland authorities on the arrangements for this. So it's about the settlement. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG) and under the Financial Instrument for Fisheries Guidance (FIFG). monitoring of the ice melting process and new measurements and assessments of radioactivity in the Camp Century area, as well as an environmental mapping of the residual waste and subsequent environmental and health assessments. So it doesn't seem like you don't care. That's all I wanted to say. Another thing is that the Prime Minister's statement quotes an article in Geophysical Research Letters which says that this waste is in danger of being released. Approx. 150 years is melted so much that the waste is exposed. And within 50 years it is possible. So I think something is being done. I do not think it is fair to say that it is not taken seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154209	I do not think I said that it is not taken seriously. In that case, I would like to regret it. That, of course, is not what I mean. There's two leads here. There is an environmental track on which it is fine to be traded. Whether it is 50 years or 150 years from now, we have a planet to deliver to our future generations, and 150 years will not be long in the future. We are very concerned about how we are already beginning to take it much more seriously in relation to our climate challenges. Then there is the legal trail that we have called several ministers around. It's been going on over a year. As Enhedslisten's rapporteur has also spoken several times, Denmark should instead of continuing to wait to react, because we cannot put legal responsibility on the ground, perhaps taking the lead and saying that then we will have to find out whether it is the US state or the Danish state that is responsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154307	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154310	150 years is far in the future. It really is. 150 years ago the year was 1867, and in 150 years it is called 2167. It's a long way in the future. Of course, the dirt has to be removed. No one has any objections to that. This must happen, and preferably as soon as possible, and therefore the Danish authorities are working closely with the Greenlandic authorities and also with the Americans to get this sorted out. I think it's in the right place. There's a long time till 2167 • a very long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154344	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154346	I do not know whether the rapporteur for the DF is aware of the climate situation facing the planet. If we don't slow down this development, we'll get to a tipping point that we can't come back from. So there is no point in continuing to say that we have enough time, that there is plenty of time, that there are 150 years. 150 years ago, power was transferred to the people of Denmark. Today we have 33 per cent. female members of parliament. After the Arab Spring in Tunisia, 51⁄2 years old, they now have 35%. women members of their parliament. They are therefore more advanced in terms of equality in 51⁄2 years than we are at 150 years of age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154431	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154433	From the period between the 1940s and 1960s there are 32 former American and Danish military sites to be cleaned up after. Denmark allowed the Americans to build military bases in Greenland, and their military presence is based on a Danish-American defence agreement. Today there are still a lot of dumps in Greenland, which is not worthy in any way, either nationally or internationally. So far we have been told by the government that a statement and an assessment must be made and that there must be a dialogue, but the statement, assessment and dialogue do not remove the waste. If it were up to the alternative, what would happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154527	That's a very good question. For me personally, I am very inspired by Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who says that Denmark, which has been negotiating these defence agreements since 1951, must take responsibility and must say that we are now launching what is needed to clean up, and then we must have a plan put in place to put legal responsibility afterwards. And if it is with the American state that this responsibility is going to lie, then we must ensure that the economy is put in place with them. But we believe that Denmark must behave responsibly, both globally and in terms of what has happened in the Kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154615	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154617	The Illulissat Declaration was signed in 2008, initiated by Greenland and Denmark together with the USA, Canada, Norway and Russia, the so-called Arctic Five. As the rapporteur addresses this in his rapporteur's speech, I would like to ask what future challenges the rapporteur sees in relation to Arctic Five and the whole question of the Arctic Sea in relation to our Common Foreign Affairs Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154647	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154649	As I said, with regard to the Arctic Council, I am actually very interested to hear how the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will tackle the fact that we must both be critical of the behaviour of some of the Arctic states, for example. Russia's behavior in Syria while at the same time we know how to maintain the Arctic as a low-voltage area, also in terms of armaments. So that is the challenge that I am very curious to hear how the government intends to tackle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154725	Thank you, sir. Roger Matthisen, there are no more brief remarks. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523154731	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister for the fine and comprehensive introductory statement in writing as well as orally. I remember clearly my first day of school. We're going back to 1997 to the school at Nyelandsvej at Frederiksberg, and like everyone else, I was excited about the first day of school and a whole new world. I even made my first and only prank that day, but I can entertain that on the second occasion. I particularly remember the first recess on the first day of school. One of my new classmates came up to me and asked first, "Hey, what's your name, and why are you sitting in one of those? He asked in a completely bumpy way, as you know six-year-olds do. I was just able to say that my name is Kristian before he said: "Why don't we be friends, my name is Tóki. So not friends in the sense of a friend request on Facebook, because it didn't exist then, but friends in the more correct sense. Tóki was a cousin, but lived in Denmark because his father was then becoming a doctor, and in total there were three cousins in my class: Oli, Tóki and Durita. I quickly became really good friends with Oli and Tóki, and we watched football together at Brøndby Stadium, we were in Tivoli together, we did homework together, and we competed together on who first did the Danish and mathematics homework. There was only one time when we didn't get along so well, where we weren't just standing side by side, and that was of course when Denmark and the Faroe Islands played football games against each other. In the 2nd grade, I moved to Humlebæk in North Zealand and changed school, and later Tóki also moved home to the Faroe Islands so that his father could become a doctor in the Faroe Islands. So I had a great love for the Kingdom community very early on for the warmth with which we meet, for the opportunities in the Kingdom community, for example, by taking an education here and taking it home with me. It just shows that although we are three different peoples, we are one people, one kingdom community and, in this case, a kingdom friendship. In relation to the challenges already outlined in both the written statement and in several oral speeches, it is crystal clear that there is a need for upholstery for our honourable friends in the Kingdom community. This is not the kind of upholstery that sealskin can be used skillfully, but a padding of economic reforms, so to speak structural sealskin upholstery. In isolation, it is positive that there has been positive growth in recent years as a result of the sharp increase in exports, but it is clear that in a wider context it is more important to look at the dependence currently on the increased catch of fish, which, in a longer perspective and in a larger overall, may constitute a completely secure income base. After all, it is important to get on the path of reform in time, to put on the reform padding. It is a bit like when, back home in the '00s, we came to rest a little too much on the laurels of living on the oil in the North Sea, where we forgot our reform padding, did not have the courage for the necessary reforms in time and had to wait until 2011 with an ambitious reform course with the withdrawal reform. This is the experience that we have made ourselves remembering the path of reform, remembering this economic reform approach, and there is no reason for this experience to repeat itself several times in the Kingdom community. Of course, it must never be an end in itself to choose the path of reform with ambitious reforms. It is difficult, and it has also been in Denmark, but it is what it takes to invest in the future before being forced to do something that is even more difficult. I do not think that the children that my good friend Tóki from the first classes in primary school has to grow up with fewer opportunities than Tóki and I had, with fewer opportunities than children in Greenland and the Faroe Islands today, because children are our absolutely most important resource, even if you had to find more raw materials in the kingdom community, or if you could catch more fish. It is therefore the children that the reforms must be set in motion for the upholstery, the consolidation so that they can also create their own opportunities, their own dreams, whether you live in Denmark, Greenland or the Faroe Islands, as Tóki and I have been able to, regardless of our background and membership in the kingdom community, because that is what makes us stronger in the kingdom community, in the kingdom friendship. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155355	Thank you. And there are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155400	I just want to sign for the speech by the rapporteur of the Radicals. When we have this kind of debate, they are often about economics, about law, about regulations and clauses and systems, etc., but what the rapporteur of the Radicals is talking about is what it is all about: the content of the relationship between people. If we put it in front of the systems, we'll get a long way. So I'm just gonna sign for a very fine speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155429	Sir. Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155431	Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155433	And then we move on to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155438	Thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I also think, as Mr. Sjúrður Skaale mentioned that it is nice to get a different angle on, a different perspective, here saw the more personal angle. What I think is important to emphasise is that when Greenland becomes independent at some point it also depends on economics and all sorts of other things that you need to be aware of • then I think it is important to stick to this personal narrative, because there are a lot of personal relations between Greenland and Denmark and the Faroe Islands. We know that more than 16,000 Greenlanders live in Denmark. We also need to think about them in the plans that are forward-looking. Sometimes, as Greenlandic politicians, we are asked: When should there be independence in Greenland? I think it is important not to say that it is within my lifetime or within the lifetime of others, because it is really about the whole process towards us getting the 32 areas that are here in order for us to take them home quietly and we also get things sorted out at home. But thank you very much for that very personal input.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155552	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155553	I think it is more a comment, a very fine speech than a question. I just want to sign for that and then agree completely that it's about getting as many people as possible into this project, in the cooperation and in the friendship that there is. I also have full confidence that the questioner is very willing to help ensure that as many people are involved as possible. Of course, you should not set dates on one or the other; it is about something bigger than setting dates on the other. So we're not going to do that in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155635	Then we move on to Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155640	Thank you. I'm just gonna sign for the speech, too. I think it was a very heartfelt speech, and I think it also shows how strong ties can be established between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, which has nothing to do with state power. And by the way, I promise I'll say hello to Tóki when I meet him next time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155704	I would be very pleased to hear that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155709	I think we ended here too. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155714	In the past, the words have been spoken with great love and respect. I think I have noticed among the rapporteurs that there is a great deal of love and respect for the Kingdom community in this House. I'm really glad. I also believe that great love and respect still exist in general and generally between Greenland and Denmark, even after independence has been introduced. Because we have many common ties and common history and many families that are linked together. They will still exist, it is only Greenland's political situation and position that will have changed. So I don't think love and respect just disappear like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155808	Thank you again. I think, however, as I said, that there is a time when there is not exactly the greatest love, and that is at those football matches and other sporting events. But that's another matter. It's only nice that we have some things where we can fight a little too. I think that's fine. I fully agree with the questioner that love and respect are a good thing. That is why one can only be satisfied that such a large number of those who are here support this text of adoption, in which it is precisely a prerequisite that equal cooperation, in mutual respect between the various parties in the Kingdom Community, is of benefit to the peoples of the countries. I fully support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155854	Thank you to the rapporteur. It's true that football can make your mind feel better. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Karsten Hønge, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523155914	The Kingdom community allows three small nations to lean on each other. And if we want, the Kingdom community can be a fantastic partnership between equals. It is clear that we differ from each other, but there is still more that binds us together. Differences need not mean contradictions and problems either within Denmark or between countries. Differences in peoples can lead to mutual inspiration and shared enrichment. One plus one plus one does not only have to give three; I find that the Kingdom Community actually allows it to mean five. Narrow - minded nationalism dumbens, no matter where and when you encounter it. So let us help each other in the process of independence in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Let's see how far the ice holds, if I may say so. I believe that it will provide the best solutions if such major decisions against independence are based on a solid majority, otherwise society is simply at risk of being pulled apart. And by the way, regardless of independence, one should not think that there is a vacuum of power out there in the world. If you are not associated with the Kingdom community, yes, then at some point you will somehow become associated with other alliances. I find it so difficult to believe that such other alliances will put Greenland and the Faroe Islands better than being in the kingdom community, and I miss in any case some more bids from the Faroe Islands and Greenland on how to see oneself placed in the world in another alliance. I think it is somewhat foggy up until now. Of course, there are also regular challenges in the cooperation, but I think we should practice solving them instead of breaking up the Kingdom Community. In the case of pollution at Camp Century, we agree all the way around that it needs to be cleaned up. There is no reason to make it a kind of conflict between Denmark and Greenland. It must also be okay to examine the matter thoroughly before we physically start the work. The same applies to the agreement on Pituffik and the sailing there. We agree that this matter has not been handled optimally, but it does not mean a contradiction between Denmark and Greenland on the contrary. Sometimes I have such an experience that the problems and conflicts in the Kingdom community can be talked up so much that you can think that that is what is most important. However, if we look at the Kingdom community as a cheese, then it is not the gaps that are the most important. The Faroe Islands are now experiencing a strong improvement in the economy, and that is wonderful. I wish, as a socialist, that progress was used to bring about more equality in Faroese society, including a tax policy that could take some more money from those people who have so much in advance. I also see bright points in Greenland's industry and economy, but at the same time there are almost incalculable economic and social challenges. In fact, I often wonder why the debate on the speed of independence and the question of which language should be the first foreign language, i.e. whether it should be Danish or English, should fill so much. Two important debates, yes, but as we discuss it, Greenland has come across an economic concrete wall. Greenlandic society faces dramatic social challenges every day. Many children grow up under totally unacceptable conditions. Too few young people in Greenland get an education, and while it happens to the eyes is us, I myself think a disproportionately large part of the time and energy may sometimes be debating other themes. And once again, as a socialist, I would like to call for greater attention to be paid to inequality and social tragedies and to the fact that so few people get an education. I wish the Faroe Islands and Greenland every success on the road to independence, but the most important thing must nevertheless be real independence and independence. And it just doesn't make sense if you don't have a solid economic foundation, a well-educated population and a social reality that binds both the country and the population together. I hope that it is environmental and social sustainability that must be landmarks for all three parts of the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160454	Thank you. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160500	Thank you very much for your comments. In IA, we think it is extremely regrettable that when we talk about independence, we really talk a lot about closing ourselves instead of just looking out in the world. I think that sometimes a more modern definition of what independence really is is lacking, and that is what lies in the constitutional work ahead of the Commission that has been set up. After all, the great job is also to involve the population. After all, there are different groups of people who have different views on this, and one of the things that many are concerned with is ensuring an adequate level of welfare and ensuring that there is no significant reduction in the level of welfare. So I think that is important to emphasise. In this constitutional work the Folketing will also be involved at some point, and it might be interesting to hear: What does SF think about the work that is going on in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160605	I tried to get in on it, in fact a few times, in my rapporteur's speech. I wish Greenland every success on the road to more autonomy, and I just hope that the ice keeps • as was the expression I used • in relation to the cooperation with Denmark. And I hope that in the course of the debate there will be something clearer about which alliances one imagines Greenland to be part of. I think that appears rather foggy. If one imagines that there is a vacuum of power in the world, one will discover a cold reality, that is, that it does not. And there it is just that I believe that one might be better off being one of three equal parts of a kingdom community. That is, of course, the decision of the Greenlanders, but I would just like to urge you to stay in the Kingdom community and use the forces we have together. Independence just makes no sense, as I see it, if you have a situation where only half of the country's population gets an education and where hundreds of children starve and have nowhere to live too in Greenland today and you have an economy that is heading towards a concrete wall. I think that these things just have to be resolved before we can talk about real substantive independence and independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160707	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160709	I understand that the rapporteur is concerned about the very realistic situation, and there are certainly a great many people in Greenland who are, in other words, in relation to the challenges we are facing. We also have a huge task here in the Danish Parliament to ensure that the challenges in the areas we are facing are properly solved, because there is also room for improvement. I think that is important to say too. In relation to the fact that it seems a little foggy, I would say that it is precisely because the work has started first and because we need to have the discussions now and have a direction. And then the people will have to be involved in it along the way, and in the end you will have to decide whether that vision is one you buy or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160749	Well, I can only stress once again that I wish every success and give a commitment to help and inspiration if you want to get it from SF or from other Danish politicians. I just think that, regardless of the fact that work has been started first, everyone must realise that the conditions for talking about real autonomy lie in the question and that is, regardless of what some mandate says: can we talk about real autonomy in terms of content if we are fully bound economically, socially and educationally? I find that hard to see. I therefore believe that some other challenges must be solved before we can really talk about independence but respect for Greenland's choice of path.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160826	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160829	Yes, in relation to our issues in Greenland society about inequality and social and economic challenges, we are bound and there is no doubt that we are taking care of these as well as we can at all. Children and young people have absolute priority, and the funds and initiatives that are being launched by Inatsisartut and implemented by Naalaksuisut are very, very many. We are allocating more money to children and the youth area than any other country, given the population and the economy, so it is absolutely the top priority. It is not the discussion about Danish or English that fills the most; it takes up very little. We have no doubt; English will be the second language in the future. I also hope that the ice will last, because if the ice melts, Denmark is one of the first countries to disappear. We hope it won't be that way. Since the rapporteur is very concerned about social issues, I would like to ask what the rapporteur thinks should be done to ensure a stronger Kingdom community based on the starting point taken by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523160940	I know that in other contexts a broad section of the Danish Parliament has raised its hand and said that if the situation is so acute and so dramatic in Greenland as I actually think it is, one is willing to offer additional help to Greenland. When Mrs Aleqa Hammond says that you take care of what was said, I have to say that it is not good enough. That is, in fact, far from good enough. You break the Children's Convention. The social reality in Greenland is grotesque. In any case, it is totally unacceptable, and I am actually a little surprised that a Greenlandic parliamentarian can say: we have a check on it, we take care of it. This is simply not done at all, because the many fine words that Mrs Aleqa Hammond gave us, the child who is starving at the moment, who is walking around without clothes on, who has no place to live in Greenland and who is sexually abused, cannot be used for anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161027	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161030	I didn't use the term check. I said we'll take care of it. We are aware of the issues and there is a great deal of political support for all the initiatives of both Inatsisartut and Naalaksuisut. I think we should show respect for the initiatives we are taking. We are very aware of the issues we face. This is certainly not something we are proud of, and it is certainly not something we are hiding anywhere. We are very aware of this, and we are doing everything we can, both in the municipalities, in our policies and in the families around us, to solve the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161108	I am very happy to show respect for the Greenlandic system, but I am here first and foremost to show respect for the children who are abused and who do not have the upbringing to which they are entitled. The breach of the Convention on the Rights of the Child is far too important for me to stand here with words and show undue respect for a system that is clearly incapable of dealing with the dramatic social disasters that are taking place in Greenland. It has to be addressed, it will not be avoided just by making such a fine speech, where you hurl around with buzzwords, as Mrs Aleqa Hammond does, and say: we take care of it, we check it out. It hasn't been taken care of. If you really think it is to take care of it, then I think that Mrs Aleqa Hammond should listen to many of the children who do not experience them being taken care of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161146	Thank you. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161149	Thank you. The rapporteur said something very fundamental, something very basic, but something that is rarely said, namely that there is no vacuum of power in the world. And if the Faroe Islands leave the Kingdom community and say no to it, what do they say yes to? It is a perfectly correct consideration that the Faroe Islands must then form part of another alliance, a different system, and become an integral part of another system. And then the question is: Where will the Faroe Islands gain greater autonomy? Are there any alliances that give the Faroe Islands greater autonomy than they do today? It is quite correct to look at the content of the fact that there are some micro-states in Europe, San Marino, Andorra, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg. They have formal sovereignty, but they have much less self-determination than the Faroe Islands have. So that is a very correct and important point that the rapporteur has there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161241	I am glad that we have the same analysis of it. Nor do we need to follow the politics of the world before we pay too much tribute to each other in order to see that it just doesn't exist. Therefore, it is just that I hope so much that in both Greenland and the Faroe Islands at one and the same time you can experience the path to independence as an opportunity and make a decision as to whether you want to go with other nations. I know that, among other things. Mrs Aleqa Hammond in the newspaper earlier flirted with the idea that you should ally with quite different powers in the world. You could do that. But then I think it will be a strength that we can lean on each other in the community and in that way reach beyond each other. And if you ally yourself with a great power it can be the United States or China, or whatever you could imagine, wonder how independent you really are. Not much, I guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161337	One more thing: the rapporteur said that he wanted the distribution policy to be different in the Faroe Islands and that the revenue that is there was allocated differently. Now it is the case that my own party is in power in the Faroe Islands, and there have therefore been major changes in the distribution policy. The tax system has changed, social benefits have changed, and resources will also be changed in the fisheries sector, etc. to make sure everyone's in it. So it's something that's being taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161408	I fully recognise that some good steps have been taken in the Faroe Islands ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ ■ We have just seen in the past that there have been some fantastic economic recovery times in the Faroe Islands, without it benefiting everyone, but I have also seen that there is now a fairer tax policy. I now think there is a long way to go from a left-wing point of view, as I have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161432	Thank you, then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then it should actually be the Conservative rapporteur, but I do not see anyone here, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523161449	Thank you very much. There is progress in Greenland, and growth was high in 2016. New figures show that in 2016 there were 311 million. kr. more in the treasury than it was budgeted for. This is not least due to the favourable prices of fish and shrimps. There is cause for optimism, but there is also a need for long-term and sustainable growth. There is a need for increased industrial development and a stronger economy. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we have long called for reforms in the area of taxation and housing, and they now appear to be being implemented. We believe that this is important, even for the sake of solidarity, if that is what we need to ensure progress in society. For us, it is about greater social equality. It is about the fact that there are too many children and young people left behind today with too few educational opportunities and who lack the basic skills. If we want to promote the economy in Greenland, there is also a need for a greater balance between rich and poor. That is an absolute necessity. It must always be worthwhile to work, as the mantra in Denmark sounds, and this also applies to Greenland. Today we know that barely 90%. of the unemployed are unskilled and many have social challenges which prevent them from meeting the demands of the labour market today. In a modern society, we know that there is a clear link between education and job security, and therefore growth and job creation, together with an increased level of education, should be at the top of the political agenda in the coming years. Barely 40%. of the adult population in Greenland has a competence-giving education and the figure is, fortunately, increasing. Unfortunately, we also know that among the students there is too high a drop-out • 50-60 per cent. Of those who start an education, they end up dropping out. In Greenland we use 14 per cent. of our GDP on education, while in Denmark you spend approx. 8% Education is a priority area in Greenland, but we still see that the dropout is too high, and in the end we do not get enough out of the investments used as there is in education. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we are therefore also pleased that the Danish Government has helped to support the efforts made by Greenlandic students in Denmark. It is crucial for Greenland's future that more young Greenlanders get an education. In Greenland's Arctic capital Nuuk, Kommuneqarfik Sermersooq has ambitious growth plans. By 2030, the goal is for us to be 30,000 inhabitants in Nuuk. This requires a massive investment in urban and housing development, and although in recent years there has been massive investment in, among other things, urban development. the future institution, something that the state has helped finance, and the new port in Nuuk, we also need to look further into the future and help ensure that the wheels are working and that jobs are secured. Nuuk, as the capital, is a driving force for the whole country, and if we want the wheels to move forward, we need to translate the visions of the development of Nuuk and the rest of the country into action in the coming years. The external contribution amounts to about 55%. the income of the national treasury, as it is today. However, the block grant represents a smaller proportion in the last 5 years, because GDP in Greenland is increasing. The fact that our economy is dependent on subsidies is not satisfactory for Greenland. Therefore, in a modern Greenlandic society, broader business development should be ensured within the four business pillars: fishing and catching, tourism, raw materials, land-based industries, including innovation and entrepreneurship. We must also learn to pay tribute to the free initiative in Greenland. We must pay tribute to the entrepreneurs, and we must pay tribute to the entrepreneurs. Even smaller companies are helping to create jobs, and this promotes an entrepreneurial spirit in Greenland, which needs to be strengthened in the coming years. Knowledge for young people about entrepreneurship and start-ups must come fully to primary school, and it is therefore very gratifying that Naalaksuisut, together with the Fund for Entrepreneurship, has come together to finance the teaching of this very thing in the Greenlandic primary schools. In the raw materials sector, we also need to create some successes. We see that the ruby mine near Nuuk is opened here not long ago, and it's really, really positive that some of these smaller projects are starting to get started. Because there is a need to create local jobs that need to be built up skills and we need to gather experience. Naalakkersuisut has also recently distributed a number of research permits for smaller raw materials projects, and more are expected to come. As politicians, we have a very broad regard for society to take. This was one of my messages to Future Greenland, where I attended one of the workshops, because besides helping to create jobs and guaranteeing some tax opportunities, we also need to take account of the environment, and we need to think long-term when we talk about raw materials projects. We must help to ensure that future generations are not left with a bill in which we have focused on short-term gains. If we look at the human, one can say that the key to ensuring that more Greenlanders will be part of a modern Greenlandic society is also about creating growth in Greenland. If it goes well for a country, and if there are jobs to get, it is also attractive for people to get back to Greenland. We see that, among other things. also in the Faroe Islands, where there are really positive trends, and where for the first time you get up to be, I think it is 50,000 people. We must be aware that some growth initiatives need to be created in Greenland. There must be a more progressive business policy, and we must ensure that investments are made in our children and young people, because education and growth also go hand in hand, and things are closely linked. My vision of a modern Greenlandic society is about a country that takes responsibility for its own future. It's about us being a country that doesn't see us as victims, not seeing us as oppressed. It is also about the fact that we are not pointing our finger at Denmark, but that we want to enter into an equal and constructive dialogue for the benefit of both countries. Greenland must be taken seriously, and we as Greenlandic MPs must be seen as serious and respected politicians who represent Greenland in the best way possible. It is important that we in Greenland have a long-term plan in relation to the repatriation of relations, a plan that is realistic and well worked out. Sometimes I miss that. Personally, I also believe that we, as Greenlandic MPs, should sit with us at the major conciliation which is about Greenland. We must ensure that Greenland is heard and that we are involved when it comes to defence policy and foreign policy. The various cases mentioned earlier today, Camp Century, but also other cases of pollution at former military installations, will be a wedge down in relations between countries, and a plan for clean-up is needed. Exelis Services is taking over the service contract at Pituffik, and this is perhaps one of the first signs we see that US foreign policy is changing to focus on US first. If we want to safeguard the interests of the Kingdom community, it is important that we cooperate and that we have a close internal dialogue. Nor is the government without responsibility for Greenland's development. Neither are we here in the Folketing. We have a whole range of issues on which we must work together. Greenlandic students in Denmark, a secure rule of law and maritime safety are just some of the many areas that we need to work to improve. Legislation that has been updated years ago here in Denmark is an obstacle when it is not updated in Greenland. An update of the succession law is one of the areas that we also believe the government should prioritise and ensure so that the opportunities to transfer its business as a trader can be made to the next generation. Earlier this year we had a hearing here in the Folketing, which Inuit Ataqatigiit initiated. It was about ensuring a safer Greenland, and from Inuit Ataqatigiit we came up with a proposal for a stronger legal society. Last week I was also in Sisimiut, where I represented the Folketing in connection with the visit of the Arctic MPs to Greenland, but I was also visiting the asylum in Sisimiut. It can be said that the Department of Justice is doing a really, very good job under a few rather difficult conditions. We have spoken in the past about the psychiatry of justice and the shortcomings that exist in relation to treatment, but I also think it is important to stress that the building itself, which somewhere represents the state of Greenland, is under all criticism. It is outdated and I do not think it is a dignified way of working together to find good solutions. I think it is important that we give the women and the men who help to give us all security in Greenland a proper framework for carrying out their work. It is about proper education, but it is also about a proper physical framework. Next week we will be discussing a motion for a resolution tabled by Inuit Ataqatigiit, which is precisely about strengthening the justice area in Greenland. The area is a Danish area of responsibility, and it is my great hope, but also my assumption, that there is a broad political majority in favour of this proposal, because strengthening the justice area in Greenland will send a signal that Greenland and Denmark jointly seek to support the development of society in Greenland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162507	Thank you. There are some brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162515	Thank you. I have discovered along the way that there is much greater inequality in Greenland than I actually thought, and that in fact it is to a large extent a class society where the, what to call, better-off part of the Greenlanders is quite rich compared to the very poorest. What are the plans of the IA and, for that matter, of the Greenland Government in relation to equalising that inequality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162543	I would first like to stress that when we see an increase in the proportion of children living in poverty, it is important that we do not just stand and watch. When in a small community we see children walking on the street at night and we do that when there are no adults around them, I also think we need to act. I think it is very much about solidarity, and some of it, which we, among others, are concerned with. Wanting to look at is the residential area. In fact, we support those who can afford to buy their own housing with grace-free loans for a period of time. Similarly, in the field of taxation, there is also a need to look at how we can ensure a fairer distribution of the common goods that we have. There are very many families with children where there is not much money to rustle with, and it has a meaning in relation to the life they live. It is basically about breaking a negative social legacy, which we see very much in Greenland, and ensuring that the next generation will have a better future. It is actually very universal, but in Greenland there is really a great need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162650	Will it also be possible to allow some of the best-off to contribute something more to the common fund, that is to say to the Greenland Treasury?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162704	I really want to leave it up to a discussion in Inatsisartut and Naalaksuisut, because I think it's a little early, you might say we start with this one. But yes, there is a need to look at how we can also strengthen our social efforts and how we can ensure that our education also goes in and interferes with some when parents fail or when the public sometimes also fails. Unfortunately, we also see examples of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162728	Then it's Mrs. Karin Gaardsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162732	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which it is always interesting to listen to when we discuss the Kingdom Community. The rapporteur is, of course, very concerned about justice and other matters, but at least also about justice and I would like to know which three priority areas the rapporteur considers to be the most important in the area of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162758	Inuit Ataqatigiit has chosen to focus on justice, and we have actually done so in all the years we have been in the Folketing. That is because the basic thing is about justice. It is about ensuring that victims have their cases dealt with quickly in the judiciary. I think that is one of the priorities. The second is a physical framework, an educational framework, a wage framework for the people who are in the police and asylums in the criminal services and in the judiciary. It is also about an increase in competence so that, as a citizen, you can be sure that you will deal with your case fairly and effectively. I think this is a fundamental wish for all of us, and it is very fundamental if it is that we want a strong society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162845	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162847	Thank you. Something was also mentioned about buildings, institutions or detentions. When you see them, you can see that there may be something wrong, but what is the real reason why it is so often necessary to have renovated buildings in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523162910	After all, we just opened a facility down in Qaqortoq in South Greenland, which has been closed, while at the same time we had to close another one in Sisimiut. That was because the framework was not up to date. This is among other things. because of mold that one has had to close the different establishments. That, of course, means pressure on the Department of Criminal Services. As I mentioned earlier, a physical building is also a form of representative of the state in Greenland, which is why I think it is important that it is worthy. When I visited the asylum in Sisimiut, I saw that it was an old barracks that was used in the time to build up the airport. I would like to invite representatives of the government to come and see for themselves, because then I think we would immediately see to it that another solution was found because it is narrow times that are not suitable for inmates at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163006	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163011	Thank you. I fully agree with the rapporteur when it comes to the fact that the tasks that the state still has to perform must be fully satisfied. The area of justice is an obvious thing, which is the entire prison system and the police and everything else. So it has to be, and it has to live up to those standards. I would like to ask: are the things that Greenland has taken over also being taken care of to our full satisfaction? I'm not sure. What are we gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163041	That is, of course, absolutely central to the debate we are going to have today, and that is where I shall deal with it. However, I would like to stress that there are also many of us who criticise social conditions in Greenland, and I believe that the criticism must come from within if it is that things have to change. I think it is important that there is a recognition that the challenges in the social field must be addressed. I see there's been a shift with that. I have been working on this for more than 15 years, and fortunately I see a development taking place. However, I think it is quite fundamental that it is up to us to make the criticism before we can change things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163118	The questioner? Apostates. The next one is sir. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163124	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which was very interesting. I would like to hear a little more about the plans that are being made in Greenland with a new development of the infrastructure, such as: The aim is to build new airports in different places. This has been discussed for a very long time, so it has been a long time in the process. But is there now some serious reason, and when is it expected to be implemented?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163154	There is a great political desire and work has been set in motion by setting up a board to work on these things, and it is also to ensure that there is an arm's length principle in relation to political decisions. What is needed is to ensure that there are also some investments for this. In some of the projects in Nuuk and Ilulissat, it is proposed that it should be an PPP project, that is, a public-private partnership to be created, while elsewhere there is a need to look at whether it should be fully publicly funded or how to do so. In his speech, the Prime Minister mentioned some of the possibilities offered by the NIB and the Export Credit Fund. We also wanted to see an opportunity for Inuit Ataqatigiits to work together to create an Arctic investment fund, and it has been my clear message to Naalaksuisut that there is a need for Greenland to take initiatives and reach out. From the Faroe Islands you have some experience that shows that it has an importance, how high the interest rate is, in relation to the investments you make in relation to tunnels.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163306	Thank you. There was a meeting in Fairbanks in Alaska in the Arctic Council the other day, and it was decided that the Western Nordic Council, in which both Greenland and the Faroe Islands participate, was granted observer status in the Arctic Council. What does the rapporteur think it can be used for and can mean for the work in the Arctic context in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163335	I myself have been active in the West Nordic Council, and I would like to see our cooperation strengthened in general between Iceland, the Faroe Islands and Greenland. One of the things you're working on is also a free trade agreement across these countries, and it could be really interesting for Greenland to become a little more concrete about it. What I think we can use it for from Greenland and from the Faroe Islands is to secure a stronger voice, one might say, in the Arctic Council, because we now have more opportunities to advance our cause. From the Greenland side we also have ICC, which represents the indigenous peoples, and we sit there too qua the fact that we are part of the kingdom community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163414	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163417	Thank you very much. This follows on from the first question from before. I am very pleased with the rapporteur's focus and we saw that last year too about what we can do to promote investment in Greenland. I also fully agree with what the Prime Minister has said. Personally, I see there's a bottleneck. As long as you have to fly via Kangerlussuaq and cannot fly directly to Nuuk or to Ilulissat, I find it difficult to see tourism or business cooperation flourish within the opportunities that actually exist. Does the rapporteur have any thoughts on what we can do on the Danish side to support Greenland's development in relation to airports? Now it's almost two years since I was in Greenland for the first time as part of the Folketing, and already at that time we heard a lot of talk about it both in Ilulissat and in Nuuk, but it's as if not so much happens. Is there anything we can do on the Danish side?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163512	The plans for these new airports in Nuuk and Ilulissat ensure that there can be a direct route. At least that's what's planned, so you can fly straight to Nuuk and Ilulissat. So it makes things more accessible, you might say, both economically, but also for tourists such in general. What I think is important to remember when we talk about airports and infrastructure is that it is one part of it. Another part of it is accommodations, and something else is activities. So we have to see it as a whole, where we also have to develop a number of different areas and perhaps just create room for the free initiative to create small tourism companies in different places. So I think it is important not only to look at airports, but also to look more closely at it, i.e. how we can ensure greater accessibility in general to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163604	The questioner. Apostates. Then we shall have no further brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523163628	Thank you very much. Empire means fellowship in the kingdom. Community is called in Greenlandic ataatsimoorneq. It means you're one with each other, being one about everything in the community. Do I feel as a Greenlandic citizen that I am treated on an equal footing with everyone else in the whole kingdom? Will Danish affairs be given the same priority in Greenland as they are given here in Denmark? Do we have the same legal certainty? Is it the Danish language, the family ties or anything else that connects me with the rest of the kingdom community? Yes, many questions about the Kingdom community can be asked about political matters. The Prime Minister repeatedly stresses that it is in Danish interest to keep the Kingdom Community and thus Greenland. The Taksøe report highlighted that it is in Danish interest to hold on to the Kingdom community. The Self-Government Act clearly states that Greenland has the right to independence. Greenland decides for itself. The challenges of the Kingdom community have not diminished in time. On the contrary, I believe that the Kingdom is in rapid change, a very clear change. The Self-Government Act came into force in 2009 and thus the relationship between Denmark and Greenland has changed. Greenland has the right to the underground, the Greenlandic language is now the official language. We can decide for ourselves when we want independence. The Self-Government Act has set very clear guidelines for the roadmap for the independence process. This also means that our relations with each other, both in Denmark and Greenland, at least on the political level, have changed, a change that the absolute majority in Greenland wants, namely that we are working towards independence. We now have independence, and the constitutional work has been initiated. The wishes of the people are brought forward in the political work. A joint project and a shared responsibility. A strong community is a community where you feel equal value, and you share decisions on each other's affairs and take joint responsibility. Unfortunately, this is not always the community we feel when we from Denmark make decisions that affect Greenland's everyday life without having taken the Greenlandic community into the decisions. If the Kingdom community is to be preserved, Denmark must take its responsibility seriously. There are still 32 matters under Danish jurisdiction, which all do not fully meet today's needs and today's Greenland. With such great responsibility, it is not enough to say that one considers the Kingdom community important, nor is it enough to say that one wants a strong community. Empire is a commitment. It obliges Denmark to give priority to its responsibilities and that these also continue to improve like all other parts of the Kingdom community. Us, who live in the northern part of the Commonwealth, experience time and again that the Danish responsibilities are at the end of the list of priorities. So it does not exactly strengthen our sense of fellowship in the realm. If you want a strong Kingdom community, it requires constant effort to do so strongly and firmly. Efforts are being made to remove border barriers which hamper the smooth coexistence of cultural, gastronomic, linguistic and educational initiatives. Respect for each other's different history, culture, spirituality and belonging are a good starting point for a strong community. A community of kingdoms which we want at the political level and a community of kingdoms which we want on the social side can be seen in concrete initiatives. How much money is being spent on ensuring that our young people are taught factual realities about each other's social conditions? How much do our young people really know about each other's countries? For example, I have. Here in the house had a lot of high school students visiting, young people who wanted to know a little about Greenlandic conditions and about relations between Denmark and Greenland. I see a very little knowledge about Greenland in young people, unfortunately, but a very great desire not to see Greenland as independent. I believe that a strong kingdom is a community that is united in respect for each other's different views, different cultures and different priorities. There I would say that the Kingdom community will be built on a community with solid knowledge of each other, of each other's affairs and of each other's values. The government base gives a hope for a better policy for matters in Greenland, which is under Danish responsibility. That legal certainty must be at the same level as it is in Denmark is among the priorities of the government base. These are major objectives, and this requires strong cooperation between Greenland and Denmark. Until now, we have not seen the very great improvements in the Danish responsibilities, but there is still time, and there are good areas of cooperation for us in the Folketing, but not least for our Naalak Suisutsutsutans in the areas. Let us work together a little more than we have done so far. Let us take more initiatives to ensure better legal certainty for the northern part of the Kingdom community than we have done so far. We are aware of the size of our country, we are aware of the location of our country, we are aware of the problems we face, we are aware of our country's opportunities, and we are aware of the importance of our country to the world community. Let us promise together to make the community a little more solid and a little stronger than it is today. No criticism of Denmark for that matter. No whining, no wailing, no complaining, but implementing the law of self-government we agree with each other, and let us make it better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164314	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Marcus Knuth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164319	Thank you very much. Of course, I have great respect for the rapporteur's desire for Greenlandic independence, but for me the question is more what is best for the Greenlandic people. There I am convinced that the problems and challenges that Greenland faces are best solved jointly, not only because of the economic figures, i.e. the block grant, which speaks for itself, but also because of the cooperation we have in the area of justice and a large number of other areas. I know that one area on which the rapporteur attaches great importance is that we should speak less Danish and more Greenlandic in Greenland. I can of course understand this on the one hand, but at the same time we see what I also saw when I was in Greenland for the first time with the Danish Parliament from almost 2 years ago, when we, when we visited a high school, heard from many of the students that because they had not had enough Danish at school, they had difficulty getting along in high school, which led to a number of those who might not be able to move on to university. Instead of having this very one-sided focus on independence, would it not be better to look at what is best for the Greenlandic population in terms of education and the economy and not be blind to independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164436	I would not call it looking blindly at independence, because that is what the people want. The people were voting on the self-government law, and it was an absolute majority of the Greenlandic people who wanted autonomy to be introduced and thus the right to independence. So it's not Inatsisartut or Naalaksuisut who's decided it's the people who are behind this. As to whether Danish and not Greenlandic should be the second language, which is probably what the questioner refers to, it is an eternal discussion for a globalised society, how much Danish and English should fill when we operate with three languages in our society. I also think that this is a perfectly natural discussion and the discussion is taking place outside the buildings where policy is being conducted. At the same time, I believe that it is not just autonomy that the people of Greenland are concentrating on. On the contrary. We are faced with challenges, and all the problems in our society we have to deal with every day, so the discussion about independence is no more than anything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164548	As I said, I have great respect for it, whatever the Greenlandic people may want, but the people of Greenland have already received a very high degree of self-determination. Then there are areas such as foreign policy, defence policy, etc. where we cooperate very closely and where I find it difficult to see that those tasks could be solved in the same way if it were not for Denmark. Why not look at economic autonomy instead of political autonomy? If all the resources and all the time we spend both talking about and working with it were spent on the issue of economic autonomy rather than political autonomy, then I think Greenland would be better placed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164626	Self-sufficiency is not just politics and economics... independence is many, many more things than just that. It is both to take responsibility for your country, your politics, your traditions, your culture, your language and your priorities throughout, to be able to think and act independently, to address all issues and to take responsibility all the way through. All this is part of the process of independence. The policy is the least policy can be negotiated. Everything else is much more important. There, too, I believe that the process of autonomy is a process which must be strengthened in Greenlandic society. There must be a general discussion about what kind of society we want in the future, with independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164707	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164709	Thank you. As I said to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen about the fact that Denmark must, of course, carry out the tasks that still lie under the State and make it to full satisfaction, I must also say that from this point of view I am not satisfied with the way in which the task has been carried out with regard to the things that have then been taken home. I mean, I can point to, for example. It is a process of education or training which is quite despondent, including in the field of social services. Is there not also the same way back for the Home Rule Government of Greenland, namely that the things taken over must be properly treated so that they are taken care of to the full satisfaction of the people? Isn't that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164757	I totally agree. I fully agree that all the issues we take back must be dealt with properly throughout. But once we have taken matters home, that does not mean that we are infallible. We learn from our own big mistakes. We make some decisions which do not necessarily always work as intended. So we learn from our experiences, and from that experience we make our improvements. We have seen this in the field of health, as we have seen in the field of education. We have seen it in many different areas that Greenland has already taken home from Denmark. So I am not going to stand here and say that the issues we will face in the future will be solved without errors. It would be wrong to say that. I do not think that anywhere there are countries that have taken all their responsibilities home without making a single mistake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164850	But it has to be said that what has happened in this area, let us take the education sector, is the fact that the capacity of young people is declining and declining. It is not a step forward, it is not even a straight line. One gets worse and worse in Danish, and English is virtually impossible. So you end up with a problem where the young Greenlanders get really good at Greenlandic and that's fine, they certainly have to be when they live in Greenland, I think, but if that's all they can do then there's no way out to those communities where you can get a higher education. That is the problem, and I think that we should work much more hard to resolve rather than constantly talking about independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523164938	I hope that at all times there will be talk of independence no matter what. Because I think it is incredibly important that you take responsibility for your country and all its affairs. I think it's perfectly natural to do that. We have a system of education today which is highly critical, and I think that is also justified in many areas. But when we see the historic plan for Greenland, there have never ever been so many trained with competence-giving education and trained as many people as we do today. And as my colleague mentioned earlier: never have we had as many graduates from the university as there are today. So I am not going to stand by and say that it looks just bad, because I see very great progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165024	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165029	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Does the rapporteur see any opportunity for the Arctic peoples to have better and more sustainable opportunities to create their own welfare through the work of the Arctic Council, for example??
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165052	In terms of sustainability, I believe that this is what I heard it is clear that the Arctic Council is a consensus model-built organisation of eight nations, each of which must agree on the initiatives we decide. Sustainability and sustainable Harvesting I can't just come up with the Danish word "is absolutely the key word in our entire work in the Arctic Council." In this context, I would say that the Kingdom has a common voice, one voice in terms of sustainability, and I also believe that, in this context, we are meeting our challenges with those countries that wish to gain observer status in the Arctic Council, but find it difficult, precisely because they very often do not understand the same sustainability principles and models that we work for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165143	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165147	I would like to ask the rapporteur what she thinks of the fact that West Nordic cooperation, as we have heard before, has also been granted observer status in the Arctic Council and how it can affect the cooperation between the Faroe Islands, Iceland and Greenland and in an Arctic context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165209	My very personal opinion is that I have had a very difficult time seeing how our West Nordic cooperation in the Council can make us stronger by achieving observer status in the Arctic Council. Each country has its own policy in many areas, in different fields, and their own foreign policy. The Faroe Islands and Greenland are autonomous countries, whereas Iceland is a state. So when it comes to having a common position on observer status in the Arctic Council, I find it difficult so far to see how it can make us even stronger in the region than we are today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165252	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henrik Brodersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165255	Thank you. I note that the rapporteur raises some of the issues in areas where Denmark does not comply with its obligations, for example with some charting of the sea and municipal officers. Now it is the case that we cannot deport people, so if they do not want to be municipal officials, they cannot be forced to do so. This is a problem, and it is a problem that needs to be resolved, but we are probably doing the best together. In connection with this, the fact that we are so sensitive to independence that we can now do so and that we must now do so and so on. I would like to say, and so on, that I fully appreciate the fact that the Greenlandic language must be favoured much more, but by downgrading the Danish language I think that it is in fact doing the Greenlandic people a disservice. The mere fact that all legal proceedings should be held in Greenland, for example, knowing that there is not a single lawyer in Greenland who knows Greenlandic leads me to ask whether there is no problem here, which might be dealt with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165402	So now there are lawyers in Greenland who also know Greenlandic. Greenlandic is learnable like everything else, just like Danish is. The Greenlandic language is the official language of Greenland, for it has been decided by the people. Of course, it must also be possible to implement it in all areas, including in areas which are under Danish responsibility as well as the courts. I'll think that's a perfectly natural place to start. Having said that, at the same time, I also think that sea maps and local authorities must, of course, at the same level as everywhere else in order to strengthen legal certainty both at sea and on land, because everything else would be unthinkable and certainly not something that strengthens the Kingdom community. I did not use the word'sea map' or 'counsel masters', but I mentioned legal certainty which the Prime Minister has laid down in his government basis, that is to say that it should be at the same level as the rest of Denmark. Those are big words, and we also have great expectations of it, and there is nothing to say that we repeatedly highlight it, because it is to give some good input to where to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165504	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165507	Could this be solved together instead of constantly pointing out the things that are wrong. After all, we in Denmark would like to resolve this together, we would very much like to support all the measures that are in place, even when the areas that are being taken back are perhaps not entirely successful. The SF's rapporteur also said that the children who are exposed to incest, children who are starving and all sorts of things, cannot use these toasts, which are often and many times held, to a great deal. However, can we help to make this work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165542	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165544	If you do not follow what happens factually in today's Greenland, you get the impression that everyone is starving, that everyone is sexually abused and that nobody has education and the like. It's pretty sad. But that is not to say that we must not criticise. We take the criticism to heart, and we are not running away from it in any way whatsoever. Denmark and Greenland have together in two ministries dealing with children and young people, developed some models, how they can also professionally help each other, which I think is really, really good, and we can strengthen it all the way through even better than we have done so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165621	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. And then we move on in the rapporteur's line with Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523165629	Thank you. First of all, Mr President, I would like to express my support for the speech by the young representative of the Radical Left. Kristian Hegaard, because it turns out that Tóki is almost part of the family, if I can put it that way, so I will give him a greeting; he is also my son's good friend. This is how many relations have been created between the Faroe Islands and Denmark and between the Faroe Islands and Danes. I don't know if you know when the very first meeting you know of took place. It was actually about 970 and it was a meeting between two free men in Elsinore, which at that time was called Háloyri in Faroese; it was a place where merchants in the Viking Age met to trade. And the two who met there were Harald Bluetooth, who gathered Denmark in his time, and Tróndur í Gøtu, the most famous Faroese Viking chief ever. Tróndur solved the big problem that Harald Bluetooth came into when he was robbed of all his silver in Elsinore. He refused all merchants to leave Elsinore again before he had got the silver back, but they didn't find out who had stolen it. So what did Tróndur do? Yes, he negotiated with all the merchants that they each paid a small sum of silver, and then he delivered it to Harald Bluetooth. This was pleased, the merchants were allowed to sail, and Tróndur received a splendid salary for his work and sailed back to the Faroe Islands and fought for 50 years against the Norwegian kings for the freedom of the Faroe Islands. When I entered politics two years ago, it was not only to help develop a strong and independent Faroe Islands. I would also contribute to a more modern and constructive dialogue on coexistence between the Faroe Islands and Denmark, which was based on the assumption that the Faroese should take full responsibility for their own country and their own well-being. However, I would also work for a coexistence in which relations between countries were strengthened politically, commercially and culturally and at the popular level. Because I am not opposed to close and good relations with Denmark. I just want the foundation to be based on a strong independent Faroese foundation and our own free will, because it creates mutual respect. But now, almost two years later, I can see that the Faroe Islands as a nation are stronger than ever. In Jutland, you'd say it's not that bad. On the other hand, I do not have the impression that it has been very successful to enter the Danish State with the ambition of a more up-to-date dialogue. The salmon farming is going fantasticly well, and pelagic fishing is going fantastic. The export and trade balance are very well. We had shown a plus of 1.5 billion. kr. Last year. The economic framework of the national government for the development of society in the coming years includes both profits and large investments in the Faroese infrastructure, in the education and health sector. Then a few months ago, we said hello to Citizen No. 50,000 in the Faroe Islands for the first time ever. Remember: Today we are half a hundred thousand citizens in the Faroe Islands. Growth is highest among women and children, and this is very important for long-term demographic development. The main reason for growth must be found in more jobs and a growing supply of higher education. And unemployment in the labour market has fallen to 2.3 per cent, but population growth also requires more housing and greater efforts in terms of various public services. The stock has recently taken home family, inheritance and personal rights, and the process of homosexuals' right to civil marriage has now reached the finish line itself. The boom does not make it easier for a narrow majority in the Latting to carry out difficult reforms, but at last the fisheries reform has entered the Latting, where it will be dealt with in the course of the next month. It is extremely important, as fishing is still the main occupation of the Faroe Islands. But we know that the trees do not grow into the sky, and we therefore also have our eyes on risks on the horizon. The Faroe Islands are undergoing rapid development, and the responsibility is great, as Faroese taxpayers themselves finance 90%. of the Faroese state budget and the Latting itself are mostly part of the legislation. It is therefore of great importance for the cohesion of our societies that we should adopt a constitution which provides a common framework for our identity. One of the fundamental principles of a Faroese constitution is the confirmation of Faroese self-determination and that the Faroese people must be asked if significant agreements are to be reached that oblige our country in relation to other nations. The work on the Constitution is now entering a final phase, and the referendum is scheduled for 25 April 2018, which is also the Faroese flag day. Over the autumn and winter, the proposal must be presented and discussed both in the Latting and among the public before the vote, and I have great faith that the attendance at the vote will be great. About 90 percent. of they asked in a recent Gallup survey indicated that they would participate in a referendum. When the Danish Constitution was voted in 1953, the turnout was down to 7%. This clearly confirms a great interest in a Faroese constitution, which is a contract between the Faroese people and those who are given the task of managing power in society. In Denmark, the government has been less sympathetic to Faroese ambition. Rather, I find that the government is trying to shut down the dialogue with its defensive announcements that any change in relations between countries must remain within the framework of the constitution. It is therefore trying to limit political dialogue to a question of law. But here all dialogue is lost, because the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of Justice will always interpret the framework of the Constitution in relation to the Government's wishes. At the same time, when you claim that the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Justice are the only authoritative interpreters of the Constitution, you have effectively shut down any constructive political dialogue. It's too bad, and it's wrong. And this confirms the prejudices that the Danish state has difficulty in moving into dynamic and respectful cooperation between three independent parties and still clings to a late colonial ambition to exercise power over all three parts of the kingdom as long as possible. The gravity of Danish foreign policy is closely linked to the Arctic growth that Denmark can bring at negotiating tables around the world. When Denmark presents itself as an arctic heavyweight on the international stage, the position is largely due to Greenland, but also to the importance of the Faroe Islands in this context. So it takes some skill to navigate that environment. Let me now come to the positive part and say that I would like to commend the government for its support for the West Nordic Council's application for observer status in the Arctic Council. The Western Nordic Council includes parliamentary cooperation between Greenland, Iceland and the Faroe Islands, which focuses on our living conditions in the North Atlantic and the Arctic. I would also like to acknowledge that Denmark supports the Arctic people's right to make sustainable use of marine resources, which is a prerequisite for the welfare of the Arctic. And I hope that Denmark will also support a proposal that is about tightening up the conditions for membership as an observer in the Arctic Council. They must recognise the rights of the Arctic people to make sustainable use of marine resources, and countries with observer status must open their markets to all products derived from sustainable catches, including marine mammals. The EU's ban on imports of seal products has been a disaster for Arctic communities, and damage can only be limited by lifting the ban. This brings me to the major changes that are on the way in the European Union. With Brexit, the European Union is facing enormous changes. The European chart or should we call it a map of fishing rights? In the Brexit process, you have to take a good look, because there are several minefields, not least in the fisheries sector. The major players are, of course, the EU and the UK, but the whole fisheries package is vital for both Faroese and Danish interests. When the new relationship between Great Britain and the European Union is negotiated, there may be situations where the interests of the Faroe Islands and the European Union conflict. We experienced this not long ago when the EU boycotted Faroe Islands' exports of pelagic fish products and Denmark closed its ports to Faroese ships. The danger of a new collision between Faroese and Danish interests is obvious, and it is vital for the Faroe Islands that the Danish Government respects the Faroe Islands' sovereign right to defend its own interests with all the means available. For us, this is about the very basis of the Faroese welfare, and we will fight for it at all times. This brings me to the final remark, if I can just get it on board, that the fight for the Faroese welfare and Faroese independence must first and foremost be fought on home ground. I have therefore decided to take my place again in the Faroese Parliament the day after the closing debate here in the Danish Parliament next week, and so I am in the Faroese Laying until the Danish Parliament gathers again, where I can meet up with recharged national batteries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523170720	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Brodersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523170725	Thank you. The rapporteur should be aware that every day I welcome the progress that is being made in the Faroe Islands, both in terms of the growth of people, the economic and, of course, also the good football results that are being created. Now we have to enter the final phase, as the rapporteur also mentioned, of the Constitution, and as the Prime Minister also mentioned, the Faroese Layerman has been out to say that it must, of course, be within the framework of the constitution. Now I know that the rapporteur is a great secessionist, and I would therefore like to hear the rapporteur's views on how he sees the result of the wish for the Faroe Islands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523170812	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523170816	I'm not sure I got the penultimate word. But this Constitution is not really about secession. I have to admit that. This Constitution is about us having an identity document for the Faroe Islands... we need a roadmap for an order plan for how we organise our society, what rights we have, what duties we have, how we organise a political system... and that we will then also have the Faroese right of self-determination, and that it is the Faroese people who have the ultimate power over Faroese society. That's what this is about. I do not see that this is in any way in conflict with the Danish constitution, because it is actually just a coinciding of more rights. It is not a question of restricting any rights of the Faroese people, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523170913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523170914	No, because there is no one who can disagree with the fact that it is nice to have some rules. I have great sympathy that in the Faroe Islands you will be as much master in your own house as possible. After all, the Faroe Islands do it with bravur every time an area is repatriated etc. etc. So that's not that part of it. I saw a Gallup survey not long ago, which confirmed what the rapporteur has said, precisely this: it may not have been a question of secession, because more than 60%. of the Faroese population had no intention of breaking free from the Kingdom community. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171007-2	The rapporteur can at any rate confirm that if you are master of how a Gallup survey is carried out, you can have a relatively large impact on what results you get from it. I welcome and say that a new Gallup Survey has been carried out and it clearly shows a majority of the Faroese people on the question of us being an independent nation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171034	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171037	In the Danish Prime Minister's chronicle from today he writes among other things. on the basic law, that it offers very wide scope for self-determination, but that it also sets clear limits in a few areas. Later on he writes a little in the direction that he understands the Faroe Islands' desire to be able to conduct an independent foreign policy, especially in areas where Greenland and the Faroe Islands have crossing interests, such as fishing. Can the rapporteur make some suggestions as to what is meant and what possible conflicts are being talked about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171122	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171124	I suppose it is the so-called DFG scheme that is referred to. The Prime Minister will no doubt discuss this later. It is a scheme that makes Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland common in different fora that have with the distribution of e.g. Fishing quotas to do. When it is so that both the Faroe Islands and Greenland have an interest in the same moving fish stocks, for example, we can risk that the Faroe Islands and Greenland have opposing interests. When that happens, we equalise each other and have no influence in these international forums, and it can be a very big negative thing for both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. And we are deeply concerned about that. We also believe that it is extremely important that the bilateral negotiations between beach countries, that is, countries with a beach to fish stocks, should be held as bilateral negotiations and that they should not end up in the multilateral contexts where we lose our influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171237	The questioner apostates. Then we shall have no further brief comments, and we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523171247	Thank you. The Prime Minister has sent a chronicle to Jyllands-Posten and the Faroese newspaper Sosialurin up to today's debate. He opens up the magic by quoting another politician to the question: How are things going? Allow me to quote the Prime Minister's own reply: Tað gongur fínt. Because, as was said, things are going very well in the Faroe Islands. Pelagic fishing has, as has been said, seen enormous progress over the last year, but it is particularly salmon farming that goes to quote another prime minister ■ remarkably well. Production has greatly increased. Salmon from the Faroe Islands have significantly higher prices on the world market than other salmon. The surplus per year kg is almost surreal. Massive investments are being made and a great many jobs are being created, both in industry itself and in the associated parts of the economy. This means that people move to the Faroe Islands as never before, and there is overall optimism that also pushes progress. As you know, the economy is also very much driven by high expectations. Behind optimism, however, there is also a fear that the pendulum will swing the other way. Because when all factors play as well as they do at the moment, we should have had a profit that is greater than what we have. When it comes to the farming industry, it is biology that we are dealing with. It has gone wrong in the Faroe Islands before, it has gone wrong in Norway, it has gone wrong in Chile. And even if you are very aware of the risk, and even though the safety of the Faroese industry is very large, there is of course a danger. The quite exceptional result from 2016 will hardly be repeated. After all, every market is always moving towards an equilibrium where there is such a balance between supply and demand, and that will happen when it comes to salmon. We know we're going up and down. The price of oil will probably rise, so will the interest rate. And even though many young people are now moving to the Faroe Islands, the relationship between people on the labour market and pensioners will change from approx. 4 to 1 to approx. 4 to 2. Now we should not ruin a party by constantly thinking about the hangover that comes in the next day, but we should not be blind to the fact that there will be a day tomorrow, and neither is the current government in the Faroe Islands. A new distribution policy line has been put in place which extends a better safety net under the weakest groups so that they both get a boost here and now and become more resistant when the Faroe Islands again surf down the economic wave. After all, we know that it is always the weakest groups that are affected only when there is economic stagnation. A pension scheme is on the way to being implemented so that we can have better sustainability there. The fisheries sector will also be reformed with the aim of ensuring both a higher return, better management of living resources and an anchoring of the principle that fish in the sea are the property of the whole people. This is not easy. The political logic of all of us who sit here is such that it is difficult to do necessary things in good times. When you can see that something is economically necessary, it is very often politically impossible to do so. When the problems become so obvious that you can see that it is a political necessity to do so, it is often too late economically. That it's hard to control in good times isn't just something you say. When there is no crisis, when there is no external pressure, the voters do not understand that things have to change. But let's see. The government certainly has a firm course and a strong will. Another reform affects relations with Denmark and must be promoted through the aforementioned Faroese constitution. It should also be made now, while there is peace and quiet and the relationship with Denmark is at its very best. This is the time to be able to speak up. At the same time, however, it is difficult to make the reform right now, precisely because there is peace and quiet. It is difficult to make policy without the conflicts that create interest and the conflicts that drive the debate forward. However, if the Faroe Islands succeed in getting the parties to bow to each other, so as to have a broad support for such an identity document as the Constitution should be, then I am sure that the government will also see that it will also benefit the relationship between Denmark and the Faroe Islands. So if you get an agreement on the Faroe Islands, you should also bow to that consensus. For God's sake, one must not think that a politically stronger Faroe Islands is a problem for the Kingdom community or even a threat to the Kingdom community. The opposite is true. The stronger the Faroe Islands, the stronger the community is. A politically stronger Faroe Islands we will also get next summer when the right to pension, family and inheritance is taken over. It has always been Danish, but it has been managed by the cousins who have been employed by the richman. This means that competence is there, experience is built up and legal certainty will be exactly the same after the transfer. The only change will be that the authority and funding lie where it should naturally lie. This is therefore an example of the pragmatic approach to the issue of self-government, which my party has always supported, where competences and duties are transferred quietly and in full agreement between Denmark and the Faroe Islands to the authorities where they are most naturally located. There are also other takeovers on the government's agenda. They are considerably more complicated, but if we consider that it can be done properly, then I also hope for the goodwill of the government there. As I said, the stronger and more equal the Faroe Islands become, the stronger the community with Denmark. An area in which the Faroe Islands have acquired their own gradually stronger identity is in the field of foreign policy. Here, in his speech today, the Prime Minister said that the Constitution sets clear limits. But it is not so rare for fisheries policy and trade policy to become foreign policy. This is done in intergovernmental negotiations on fisheries, and there is no doubt that Faroese exports to Russia have a foreign policy aspect. But although foreign policy is formally a common matter, the government's wise line is that it is not interfered with. When support for the Commonwealth is as large in the Faroe Islands as it is at present, it is not least due to this wise line. However, unlike the Prime Minister, I believe that we can go further. In his time, a Danish Prime Minister fully supported Faroese membership of the Nordic Council. Now it is said that this cannot be done, and refers to the Constitution of the same Constitution as it was then, when it was possible to do so. It is said that the Faroe Islands cannot have their own voice in international organizations if Denmark or Greenland are in, because the kingdom can only speak with one voice under the Constitution. The Prime Minister writes in today's chronicle in Jyllands-Posten and in Sosialurin that no Danish government can go beyond the constitution, even in the service of good will. Of course, but the scope for manoeuvre is very great when the political will is there. The Constitution is not, it has proven throughout history, a cage of steel. It's turned out to be like an accordion. And if it is to contain a community where everyone can feel right, then it must be pulled out completely. It is important to choose the politically pragmatic path that has led us so far together, rather than the legal path that so often causes us problems. Of course, what is at stake in the Community must be the political, economic, social and personal opportunities and not the legal constraints. That is why I will also sign for the cooperation I have had with the government to remove border barriers in the Kingdom community. For example: it is now possible to get a CPR number even if you live in the Faroe Islands. And forefathers in Denmark, who in recent years have had more difficult access to certain social benefits than other Danish nationals, are now treated equally. I also sign for the government's goodwill in relation to my proposals for co-financing of Danish-Færøske projects. I'm gonna sign up for the few flybones we've had since we last had this debate. Finally, I would like to say that what is going to make the Kingdom community work is not just the formal framework; there must also be a lively interest in it. And the prerequisite for interest is, of course, knowledge, and there is a slight lag here on land. Some material has been made about the Faroe Islands for school use, but it is mostly such small teasers. That is fine, but we should go further. Learning about the Faroe Islands should at least be a tiny bit of any Danish primary school student's regular curriculum. So, in summary, although certain things can be done better, the answer to the question put by the Prime Minister in today's newspaper must be that, yes, tað gongur fínt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523172228	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523172233	Thank you. We have heard the rapporteur several times today say that there is a great deal of support for the Kingdom of the Faroe Islands, and I think that is very good to hear. Will the rapporteur unfold it a little? So what is it on which the rapporteur is based?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523172255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523172255-2	First of all, I would like to say that the national issue, the relationship with Denmark, is not what is at the forefront of Faroese policy. If it did, there would be another coalition in the Faroe Islands. It is, of course, the case that if you look at it mathematically, the parties that want to be separated in the long term have a majority, but there is no coalition that wants it. The coalition is under the leadership of the Social Democrats who do not want it. It is not a question that is at the front. It is distribution policy, tax policy, that is what is at the forefront. There is a study which was published three weeks ago asking about the relationship with Denmark. It is often said that the Faroe Islands support the kingdom community because money comes from Denmark, 640 million. kr. Then it was asked if, if there wasn't this money in between, you would still support the Kingdom community. And that's about it. 30% who said they were in favour of secession, if it looked like this, while the rest wanted to be in the community in which they are. So that is what I am referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523172356	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523172358	Thank you. I shall be relatively brief, because it has been an exciting and very interesting debate, but I have given my and the Government's proposal on the current temperature of the Kingdom community quite thoroughly in connection with the introduction here and also in the written statement, and so there is not much of the quiet that is moving about it. That does not alter the fact that this has been an interesting debate. It has also been a very long debate and I think it has been interesting in that there have been many aspects directly related to the Kingdom community. Some of them are also of a principle nature and cross-cutting nature, but in addition it has also been a great opportunity to gain a slightly closer insight into what is actually the current situation in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. The third part of the Kingdom Community, Denmark, has not talked about much, but we do so often. How are things in Denmark? Here, too, things are going well in terms of the real economy. But it has also been exciting to listen to the North Atlantic members' own assessment of what the situation is in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland, and of that one can easily listen to the fact that it looks very different, i.e. that the challenges you face in the other parts of the Kingdom Community, the Faroe Islands and Greenland are very different, and that almost gives itself for many good reasons, among others. the entire geographical dimension. And I mention this here, even though it may be a banality, because I think it should also be included in this debate on how we create enough tension in the Kingdom community for everyone to feel comfortable. 'Cause that's what Mr. Sjúrður Skaale also said in the end that the opportunity to take back responsibility and independence within the framework of the Kingdom community must also be adapted to the real economic opportunities and competence that are being built up, and that is the last part taken over, i.e. the task of personal, family and inheritance rights for the Faroe Islands, a very good example of that. On the whole, I would like to say that I very much agree with Mr. Sjúrður Skaale's approach to things. Because the password was pragmatism, and it's also my own approach. Unfortunately, then, I do not have the view of the Constitution that it is just such an accordion that you can pull out. I think we have also mentioned this in previous rounds, and that is one of the main points. along with the fact that I've tried to pull this accordion myself in other contexts, for example. in the whole question of Danes abroad's access to vote in Danish elections, where I had an equally ideal interest in doing it differently than we do today, as I believe and assess Mr. Sjúrður Skaale and Mr. Magni Arge's interest is in the issue of a different role in foreign policy for the Faroe Islands, but where I just had to see that there is so much patina on the constitution that one could not just draw in where one wanted to. So my starting point is that we have the constitution we have and full respect for everyone's wish to leave. But there is also a great pleasure that it has been confirmed here today that the ambition in the Faroe Islands is to create an identity paper, and there is a joint analysis, both from Tjóðveldisflokkurin's member and the Faroese Social Democracy, Javnaðarflokkurins, member, that the current mood in the Faroe Islands is not like a secession, but rather more freedom of movement. It is a wish that I understand, and that is why it is still my hope and I will repeat it here today, because I have now mentioned it sometimes that the Faroe Islands will help to find pragmatic solutions. When I am so concerned about it, including the question of how we develop the DFG scheme, Denmark as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned, it is of course because I think it is an expression of due diligence to have that discussion in good time before we potentially find ourselves in some conflict involving both the Faroe Islands and Greenland. So I would like to repeat that here. I have mentioned it several times in relation to the Faroese lagman and to the Home Ruler of Greenland, and I also hope that this can be a subject that we can discuss in concrete terms when we meet at the Kingdom meeting at Bornholm here in June. So, like other speakers, I would like to acknowledge this today for the very fine speech, which was also made in an emotional way, as Mr Tugendhat has said. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left held, because it reminds us all of what it is all about, namely human relations and family ties.I myself am an example of this historic community of destiny that we all have a responsibility to safeguard. I would also like to echo what Mr. Karsten Hønge said, and I thought he said more wise things. I myself am surprised by standing here on the floor of the Parliament and highlighting Mr. Karsten Hønge as someone I would now like to support in my argument, but nevertheless I think that Mr. Karsten Hønge hit the head on the nail, among other things. by its observations on what is the global reality, namely that there is no vacuum of power, and in this discussion that it is an interest for Denmark, for the Faroe Islands and for Greenland to preserve and develop this kingdom community that we have, it should be included in the analysis: What is the alternative? And I have no doubt at all that I was not at the beginning of this debate that it is not just the way Mrs Aleqa Hammond quoted me when she said that I have said time and again that it is in Denmark's interest to preserve the Kingdom Community. That is too narrow a quotation, because it is not just in Denmark's interest. It is in the interest of the Faroe Islands, it is in Greenland's interest, and it is in Denmark's interest to preserve and develop the kingdom community and to lean against each other, among other things. For that reason, as Mr. Karsten Hønge emphasized that the alternative is not that you just hover in your own right. But the alternative in the real world is that, if so, other alliances would have to be sought. I believe, in fact, with reference to what I have already said in my introduction and what I said in the written statement, and with the fact that, when this debate is over, we are about to start a similar debate on Greenland, that I will confine my remarks to what I have said here, since I shall of course make myself available for any questions or comments that may be made. I would also like to express my sincere satisfaction at the fact that, if not today, because the vote has been postponed to another and later date, but that is to say to be expected, we can see, with the proposal for adoption that has been tabled, that we will be able to gather very, very widely, not only among the Danish parties, but also with the North Atlantic Members, about a decision which will guide our further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173226	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173231	I just want to make a small correction to the Prime Minister. I did not confirm that this is no longer about independence for the Faroe Islands. This is very much about Faroese independence for me. However, I confirmed that the actual vote on the Constitution is not about independence at this stage. As regards the Faroe Islands' ability to participate in international cooperation, it is actually the case that the fact that we are part of the Commonwealth, which is based on the idea of a single state, helps to exclude the Faroe Islands from participating in many multilateral and international forums. So I am not so afraid that we should not be able to be part of different international contexts independently, but I am happy to do so with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173324	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173326	If I have made a reference which in the Faroe Islands or elsewhere has cast doubt on whether Mr. Magni Arge had given up the foundation on which Tjóðveldi is established, so I must apologise very much. That has not been my ambition, and it has not been my intention, nor have I ever imagined it. It was a reference to what was said here and, as such, I am very pleased that there was confirmation that the current constitutional work in the Faroe Islands is aimed at creating an identity document. Then I understand perfectly well that Mr. Magni Arge's party and probably also in others is an ambition that goes beyond it and goes beyond it and full respect for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173418	Sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173422	Thank you. Then we've got it straightened out. I have announced earlier today that I have seen the result of a new study which shows that a very large proportion of the Faroese population will participate in a vote on a Faroese constitution, so that it has a very substantial support, one must count on. I have a question for the Prime Minister and it concerns a subject which I touched on to a certain extent. This is the question of the negotiations that have gradually been brought up, sometimes between the EU and the UK on Brexit, and how the Prime Minister sees the orientation in the future, let us say from the Prime Minister's Office and against, for example. the North Atlantic members of the Folketing. But most of all I am interested in what dialogue one intends to have with the Faroe Islands and with Greenland in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173515	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173517	Thank you. This is a very relevant question, also because it can be said that the interlocutors on Brexit are the EU on the one hand with Denmark as a part and the UK on the other. And then we also have Denmark as a party, as far as the Faroe Islands and Greenland are concerned. That is why, of course, it is important that we spend a great deal of resources working out our interests. That is why we have set up an inter-ministerial task force, and that is also why there has been a dialogue with both Greenland and the Faroe Islands, which will have to be developed in the future, so that we are best equipped to look after our interests. This is also why our Embassy in the UK is open to Greenland and the Faroe Islands to identify the possibilities of putting Faroese and Greenlandic views through in the dialogue and negotiation that comes with the UK at a time when the first phase of these negotiations, which is about the division of the estate, is completed, and we will move on to the second phase, which is about the future relationship. Yeah, I'm sorry I pulled it a little bit here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173636	That was acceptable, because it was quite a central issue. We move on to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173645	Thank you very much for the words. I look forward to hearing a little more about Greenland in the next debate. When we talk about the Kingdom community, it is sometimes an exercise to be able to accommodate three different interests, but to speak with one voice. Fortunately, at times we also see overlapping interests. Basically, it can be said that from the individual parties, from the individual rapporteurs, there has been broad support for us to strengthen the area of justice in Greenland. Therefore, it might be interesting to hear how the government views being open to look at how we could strengthen the area of justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173722	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173726	Now we will have a more specific Greenland discussion in a little while, but I share the view that fortunately there are often overlapping interests, otherwise there would probably be no viable kingdom community either. In relation to the area of justice, there are many different aspects. Some of what has been raised here has been the question of police and municipal officers, where the Minister of Justice has taken a number of steps. I am also quite familiar with the work of the Lawyers' Society and others. It's about these things, and it's the government's attention. For I have the overall view and a whole series of members of the Danish Parliament have also had the view in the debate that, as far as Danish responsibilities are concerned, which have not been taken home by Greenland, our ambition must be to solve that task properly and in reality in a way that we do in the rest of the kingdom as well. However, there is the small reservation that there may be circumstances that are different. In any case, it is evident that in Greenland, when we speak of municipal officers, there is a fact that is different, and it is called geography. It also challenges Greenland itself in relation to many of the tasks that have been taken home. And there we are, you might say, with the same challenge, for example. the fact that it can be difficult to ask with a municipal bailiff in every village and that it can be difficult to recruit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173852	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173856	It is basically about the fact that we want the police to be present everywhere, and I also know that there is a discussion, one can say, generally in Danish society, about how to solve tasks forward-lookingly, also outside the major cities. But another thing I would like to discuss is defence policy. Because I was in Sisimiut here last week, and there we held a policy mike, we called it. It was a mixture of a political discussion and some coffee, which we are used to in Greenland. It was actually to involve the people of Greenland. One of the things we really want from Greenland is that we are in the negotiations when it comes to Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173937	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523173939	Thank you. After all, this autumn the government will come up with a proposal for a new defence settlement and will, of course, make sure to have a dialogue with the North Atlantic members as well. However, as far as the main forces behind the conciliation are concerned, it is now my picture that it will be a matter between parties in this Chamber. But that is not the same as saying that we do not want a dialogue. We would very much like to have a dialogue, because there are large parts of what we will be discussing in the autumn when we discuss the framework of defence and the terms of defence, which have a specific relevance to Greenland in this case, and of course we would like to discuss that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174024	When I try to take a little time here, it is because it does not take many minutes until we have a specific debate about Greenland. It's Aleqa Hammond now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174035	The Prime Minister pointed this out in his speech, but also in his chronicle today in Jyllands-Posten, namely: I understand the Faroe Islands and Greenland's desire to be able to conduct an independent foreign policy. Especially in areas where the two countries have cross-border interests such as fishing. I think everyone does. Greenland has already withdrawn fishing back in 1992, and in this context Greenland has also been given the power to conduct foreign policy directly in the fisheries sector and has since then also conducted its own foreign policy and negotiated directly with the EU, Norway, Russia and other countries outside Denmark. When the Prime Minister says this about Greenland wanting to conduct its own foreign policy in the fisheries sector too, what does the Prime Minister build on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174128	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174130	I would like to say that it is not without Denmark. It is on behalf of Denmark. It is, of course, at the heart of the whole thing: that Denmark has one foreign policy voice, and in those situations where Denmark, the country of Denmark, has not the kingdom community, has moved its competences into the European family, there is room for the rest of the kingdom community, if you can formulate it that way, to form the Danish voice. So it is not without Denmark. It is on behalf of Denmark. This is precisely the arrangement that we would very much like to discuss pragmatically, in other words practically, how we can create flexibility in its functionality, because at least potentially situations could arise where those who then fill Denmark's voice, namely the Faroe Islands and Greenland, do not see things the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174228	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174230	When I talk about fisheries negotiations that Greenland leads with other countries, it is within the 200-mile limit that is Greenland's own economic zone. I would like to expand on that. Having said that, I would like to say that the Taksøe report, which is a very important and controversial report, uses both Danish interests. The Prime Minister says that Danish interests are on behalf of the whole Kingdom community and that this is coordinated with all parts of the realm. What is the basis for this when Greenland comes up with strong criticism of the interests pointed out in the reports and which do not represent Greenland's views?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174310	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174313	I am not quite sure that I understand what is hiding behind that question. I have to say that in a nutshell. It is in all dimensions a Danish interest to preserve the Kingdom Community, and what I tried to say before is that it is mine If it is a view that is not shared in Greenland, then you have to withdraw from the Kingdom Community, because I cannot put it through. I have full respect for the fact that the final conclusion is drawn there, but that is mine.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174403	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174406	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. On the American Department of Defense website it appears that the voyage to Pituffik, Thulebasen, will take place at an American company and not the Royal Arctic Line. Following on from the fact that we are now politicians in the Folketing who believe that the race has run in relation to the service contract, is it cause for concern that it is American companies that are taking over more service activities in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174452	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174454	Yes, it is a matter of concern, and other words could also be used to describe the same feeling. That is also why we have been involved in the matter that lies behind us, in other words around the whole service contract at Thule, where there have been a number of legal battles in the United States and where, in the wake of this, we have a dialogue with the US authorities, which, frankly, has also been challenged by the fact that there has been a change of administration in the United States. There was one in the debate who tried to politicize it in the past, that it was probably the new American administration and America first and what was said. I guess it's fair to say that the whole question of the service contract at Thule is back in history. There has been a vacuum in Washington, and on top of that we must make a common defence of interest. We are very aware of this, and that is why these things are also being analysed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I should also like to refer to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for further consideration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174606	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174609	Thank you for that, and we also received a closed briefing from the Foreign Minister recently, so that we can, of course, go into detail on the challenges involved in the contract. But that is a cause for concern, also because the contract that has been made is twice as expensive as the contract with the Royal Arctic Line, and then it goes to an American company. The second thing I would like to hear the Prime Minister's opinion on is whether the Prime Minister thinks that we have enough education, knowledge of the Kingdom community throughout the educational system in Denmark, since we are so keen to keep the Kingdom community an important construction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174653	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174655	I certainly do not think we do. I can almost give it proof of truth because there is a book called: "That's how the cousin is, and on the front page of it there is a schooner, where there are a few people at the centre of the photo, and one of them is me. So if you can run a teaching book around the Danish primary school or at the edge of the Danish primary school, targeted underage children, with a picture of me it is well enough in a slightly younger version than now it is called: "This is how the cousin is, there is a communicational task that we have not fully solved. I would very much have liked to have been able to go into this in more detail, but my short answer is: no, there is more to be done. By the way, I fully agree with that, sir. Sjúrður Skaale said, exactly about this theme at an earlier time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174747	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Monday 29 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174810	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Monday 29 May 2017. Sir. Søren Espersen for reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523174816	Thank you very much. When I called this question, I did not imagine that we had had a very good debate throughout the whole afternoon, because then I think I would have chosen to put it at another time. But that's the way it was supposed to be. In any case, I will not be the one in the debate here who is dragging it out. I can promise you that in advance. The rest of you can do that! But just as a justification for the question, I would like to say that without the annual block grant from Denmark, I do not think Greenland would be able to make economic progress. But even with the annual block grant, Greenland is financially at its knees. The Greenland Economic Council has estimated, as the Prime Minister also mentioned, that budget improvements of 1 billion should be made. kr., and according to Danish conditions we can always multiply by 100, so that means that the Minister for Finance had to go out and find budget improvements of 100 billion. kr. over the next 10, 12, 15 years. It's not funny. It is a staggering amount which would either lead to catastrophic public cuts or throw Denmark to the lions on the international loan market, especially if it were to prove that there was no possibility of restoring the economy over a number of years. That's what matters. For this reason, it should be expected that Greenland's local government and the Landsting were busy preparing significant reforms, especially in the neglected education and vocational reforms, now that the Greenland political leadership must have realised that the dream of oil billions is over. I do not see Greenlandic politicians taking that responsibility there. Other and grander plans are under way, namely independence, and that agenda has all the political parties committed themselves to. The process has been set in motion, and it cannot be stopped, they say. The plan is in my eyes, seen through my neutral glasses, not accessible. That is the discussion I would like to have today and I look forward to the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523175013	Thank you. And we're gonna get it now. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523175019	Thank you for that and thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative in this question debate on Greenland's constitutional work and economic opportunities as an independent country. It is true that we have at least had elements of the debate on the table already in the question debate that we have just concluded. But here you can then, you might say, zoom in more directly on exactly this question which interests a lot of people in Greenland, but also here in Denmark. It is, of course, a question of a constitution that has been under way for some time, and in November 2016, Inatsisartut decided, on the basis of a statement by the Naalaksuisut, to authorise the national government to set up a Greenlandic Constitutional Commission and to draw up a mandate for the work. On 26 April, a member of the Naalaksuisut Suka K. Frederiksen informed me of the mandate which has now been drawn up as the basis for the work of the Commission. In principle, the Commission is working with a time frame of 2-3 years, and the members of the Commission must as a rule be members of the Landstinget. The Commission consists of seven members and all parties have proposed members to the Commission, and Vivian Motzfeldt from Siumut is chairman. Both the Naala Suisut and the Commission may appoint members of the Commission and the President of the Commission may invite other experts to take part in the work. The Commission shall organise its own work, establish a secretariat to serve the Commission. According to the terms of reference, the Commission is to draw up proposals for a Greenlandic constitution in two stages. It states that some must be able to enter into force while Greenland is part of the Kingdom and, in the case of Greenland, must supplement the Basic Law, while the second part must enter into force only on the day Greenland becomes independent. That is clear from the terms of reference. I understand, however, that there has subsequently been a discussion between the Member of the Naalaksuisut Suka K. Frederiksen, the Commission Presidency and the Inatsisartut ad hoc committee on the Constitutional Commission on the detailed understanding of the mandate, a discussion on whether the Commission is only preparing proposals for a constitution to apply to an independent Greenland, or also a proposal to apply while Greenland is part of the Kingdom Community. The Commission held its first meeting on 15 May and issued a press release shortly ago. It appears that the Commission has confirmed here that it will work according to a constitution that will apply when Greenland becomes an independent state, and so I have to say that, from my desk chair and now from the platform, there is currently not full clarity about the work of the Commission. I can also say that the press release of the Constitutional Commission shows that the Commission also discussed the question of how best to bring the people together, information on ownership of resources on land and on water, about space for diversity and equal opportunities and about the protection of living, values and languages as a basis for identity. In addition, it appears that the possibility of joining the United States as a recognised state on an equal footing with other states and NATO membership was also discussed. It is with reference to the press release. We'll follow the commission's work. I would like to mention today, as I have already indicated, that it is clear that the future Greenlandic Constitution must respect the Constitution if it is to apply while Greenland is part of the Kingdom Community, and that is why I am also pleased that the Terms of Reference stipulate that if the Commission draws up provisions to apply while Greenland is part of the Kingdom Community, it must involve the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure that the content of the draft Constitution can be assessed on an ongoing basis by the Ministry of Justice, so that it can be included within the framework of the Constitution. I would like to sign for that approach to cooperation by the Naala Suisut. I also expect a direct dialogue to be established between the member of the Naala Suisut for independence and the Minister for Justice if there is a need for discussions between the government and the national government along the way. It is the status of the constitutional work, as I can uncover it from here at the moment. I am also looking forward to the Council meeting that we will have before the Bornholm People's Assembly and hope that it will give me more insight into things than what I can refer to here. Then there is the question of the economy, which is central, because Greenland itself presupposes a self-sustaining economy, and with reference to the debate we have just had, I also think it is appropriate to discuss independence, independence, formality, reality. After all, we have discussed the economic situation in the past and some of the challenges that Greenland faces, and that is, to put it bluntly, not insignificant challenges. Greenland needs reforms and new revenue. Financial policy is not sustainable, that is to say, there is a good economic picture at the moment, and that is very good, but major budgetary improvements will have to be made in the coming years if welfare is to be maintained, as there are more elderly people and fewer people to earn money. And according to the Greenland Economic Council, the sustainability challenge amounts to up to 1 billion. kr. or more than 7% It is true, as the questioner said, that if we are to anticipate the figure in order to understand it in a Danish political context, it is equivalent to 100 billion. kr. in Denmark. This responds to the need to improve the budget in 2035 perspective by 100 billion. kr. to have durability. This is quite a challenge. Then there is the state subsidy to Greenland, that is the block subsidy, and it amounts to 3.7 billion this year. kr. This corresponds to just over half, 55%, of the total income of the Treasury, or in a more understandable way: For every 2 DKK that comes in the box, 1 DKK comes. from Denmark. It is then a grant that makes it possible for Greenland to have a significantly higher level of prosperity than would otherwise have been the case, i.e. without a Danish block grant. In addition, the state carries out a number of tasks in Greenland, which the autonomy has the possibility to take over, but which have not yet been taken over. In the last debate, we had a debate on the level at which we are taking care of it, and I also listened to the kind but certain criticisms made by some of the Greenlandic Members. Very topically, the Autonomy Act lays down 33 areas of action which have not been taken and which, among other things, are: I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which he has drawn up on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. kr. So there is a block grant of 3.7 billion. kr., and then there are non-removed tasks that we spend about 0.5 billion. kr. at present. Of these, the cases under the Ministry of Justice amount to up to 400 million. kr. annual. It follows from the Autonomy Act that Greenland itself finances new fields of action which are taken over, and Greenland, of course, decides whether, after a takeover, more or less money will be spent in the areas than the state has done so far; I can just explain what we are currently spending. I also note what has been said about the fact that in some areas we, from the point of view of Greenland, could do better. Then there are some areas occupied by the government and which can only be transferred to Greenland by independence. This concerns, among other things: On foreign policy, security policy and defence policy, Denmark currently spends more than 0.5 billion. kr. annually on the defence's assignment in Greenland, and in particular on the supremacy of sovereignty. In addition, the defence also carries out a number of other social tasks, including: search and rescue teams and a large part of marine environment preparedness. And with the agreement to strengthen the future task solution of the Ministry of Defence in the Arctic from December 2016, an additional 120 million will be added. kr. annually to the area. It was just to draw a picture of the current economy, and without trampling around in a conclusion, I think it is quite quiet to see that there is a challenge in terms of having a total economic load with the level of prosperity and welfare that currently exists in Greenland. The question of which rights and obligations between Greenland and Denmark will apply under international law, if Greenland decides to be independent, was after all dealt with by the Greenlandic-Danish Self-Government Commission, it is reflected in the Self-Government Act, and here it is assumed that the implementation of autonomy for Greenland will take place by an agreement between the Government and the Naalaksususut, and such an agreement will have to decide on a number of issues as a result of international law. It is a question of, among other things: citizenship of persons affected by Greenland's independence. Under international law, however, there is no requirement for Denmark's financial support to be maintained in full or in part after Greenland has gained independence. I should like to mention that the government of that time, which we are back in the year 2000, offered an economic transitional period during which the State grant was paid out after four years in the course of negotiations with the Faroe Islands on independence. I am not going to stand here and anticipate the outcome of a debate, let alone an agreement on the implementation of Greenland's independence sometime in the future; it must be based on the specific circumstances prevailing at the time when it might become a reality, but I do not imagine a situation in which the state's grant or task solution will continue for a longer period after Greenland's independence. If a majority in Greenland decides for independence, the government will of course respect the decision, but we will regret it, and personally I will mourn it. It is my wish and hope that we will continue to be united in a strong Kingdom community for many years to come for the benefit of our peoples and for the benefit of the development of our society. In my optics, according to the last debate, the current system of self-government is unique, also in a historical perspective. It provides security for Greenlandic society, while at the same time Greenland has the opportunity to take over further competence and develop self-determination at the rate that Greenland itself wishes. And then it means that virtually all important decisions about Greenlandic society are taken in Greenland, and of course it must be so. As everyone knows, I am a great supporter of our historical kingdom community; I am convinced that it makes both Denmark and Greenland stronger, and I hope that we will love each other and stick together for many years to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523180214	Thank you for your answer. We shall now proceed to the negotiations. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523180225	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a very good answer, which, of course, gives a good picture of the economic situation in Greenland. Right now, it seems to me that the Greenlandic economy is running on speed, so to speak. There are many crowns which are now happily earned into successful fishing. But somehow it seems to blur the senses so that the underlying structural problems have disappeared or seem so abstract that they are packed away in the public debate. I follow the debate on Greenland regularly, follow what is happening, and the part to which the Prime Minister refers here, the explanation of where Greenland's economy stands, I do not think that the Greenlandic population will get. Instead, in the public debate, the self-determination politicians express a completely different story, namely that independence is the solution. That is what I experience when I speak to many Greenlanders. This is a distorted picture of the situation that will arise after independence is a reality. It is told to the people of Greenland exactly what dramatic consequences for living standards and welfare an independent Greenland will have for the population, including failure to review and expose the very long series of economic obligations which the state, after Greenland's independence, naturally no longer assumes. A responsible Landsting and local government would have long since presented all these consequences to the people of Greenland and, rather than using energy in utopian images instead, purposefully throw all the effort into solving Greenland's major economic problems and social problems. They do not tell the people of Greenland what will happen when the 4.5 billion block grant. kr. is being removed and the country's treasury loses half the country's finances. Nor do they tell us what is lost when the fleet's many peaceful and helpful activities end, nor what it will mean by changes in international loan conditions. They also do not tell us how much you lose when all health expenditure, educational expenditure, police and judicial expenditure 100%. to be held by Greenland in a situation where skilled people leave the island in large numbers and travel to Denmark, no more than they tell us what has to be done when administrative areas such as foreigners, working conditions, food legislation, foreign service and the Maritime Authority are to be paid by Greenland, and they also forget to tell us that at the moment. are neither the crew nor the competence required for these takeovers. In short, one forgets to tell how much is actually being paid by Danish taxpayers and, in future, 100 per cent. to be paid by Greenlandic taxpayers in a situation where net emigration from the island should cause all alarm bells to ring. It is no secret that I regard the independence movement as destructive to the well-being and standard of the Greenlandic people and as an expression of an escapism in which reality is displaced. Most Greenlandic politicians know that I know very well that the welfare state is at stake, but turn a blind eye. You know very well that if the country is not to fail already with the block grant, dramatic budgetary improvements will have to be made, but instead choose to speak loudly. Unfortunately, I do not have time today to go through the terribly long series of disastrous social problems which haunt the island itself in a situation where block subsidies are actually paid. I dare not think about what will happen to ills if independence becomes a reality and the 4 billion. kr. annual is no longer available in the national treasury. This is, of course, the crucial major problem that must and must be resolved. It is a question of a large proportion of the children in Greenland suffering distress and it is our view that the state will have to intervene. We are talking about Danish citizens, so for this reason we can seriously talk about Denmark having an obligation to commit itself. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I shall make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on Greenland's selfgovernment to explain in detail as soon as possible the dramatic, negative consequences for the standard of living and welfare of an independent Greenland will have for the people of Greenland, including reviewing and clarifying the very long series of economic obligations which the state, after Greenland's independence, will no longer assume. The Folketing further encourages Greenland's self-government, in close cooperation with the state, to set aside other activities in the coming decades, rather than energetically and purposefully throwing all the effort into solving Greenland's enormous economic and social problems. • V 112).
ParlaMint-DK_20170523180751	This is now part of the further debate. Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523180806	Thank you. The Greens have a keen desire for independence, and I think it will be a desire which will be strong in any people who are not a sovereign state. The Social Democratic Party supports the Greenlanders in their efforts to formulate and adopt a constitution which will greatly strengthen their identity and sense of community as people. Part of the Constitution is designed to accommodate it within the agreements of the Kingdom Community, and another part is designed so that it can be used, the day Greenland announces that they are leaving the community that is in the Kingdom Community. I'm not imagining that independence is just around the corner. In order to achieve this, it is necessary for Greenlandic society to make much more progress in business development, so there are companies that create jobs and thus generate tax revenue for Greenlandic society. There is also a need for a more efficient public system and, above all, for much more Greenlanders to be trained. Both professional and theoretical education are absolutely necessary to a much greater extent than today. 50-60 per cent. fall out of education. It is, as I see it, a main problem for Greenland. Greenland's independence depends entirely on the success of creating a better economy. As long as every second crown in the Greenlandic public economy comes from Denmark, independence is not possible. Therefore, Greenland must focus on business development and on education. As the economy now looks like in Greenland, I see no possibility that Greenland can take care of itself without financial support from outside, i.e. from another country. And it will be very difficult to imagine that the Danish people will continue to send block grants to Greenland after the country has declared itself independent. But the Social Democratic Party supports that the Danish state offers help in cases where Greenland wants help in solving some of the most prominent problems, for example in the social field. And the Social Democratic Party also supports the work of the Danish Parliament to formulate standards for the Danish responsibilities in Greenland, standards that correspond to the Danish standards with due regard for particular Greenlandic conditions where necessary. On behalf of the North Atlantic members as well as all parties in the Folketing, with the exception of DF and Enhedslisten, I shall read out the following text of adoption: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Greenland has set up a Constitutional Commission and that it is clear from the process of the Self-Government Act that Greenland is free to initiate a constitutional preparatory process. The Danish Parliament notes that the Terms of Reference of the Constitutional Commission provide that the Constitutional Commission involves the Ministry of Justice in its work to ensure that provisions applicable while Greenland is in the Kingdom Community can be included within the framework of the Constitution. The Danish Parliament notes that the State's grant to Greenland continues to constitute more than half of the income of the Danish Treasury and thus the basis for income in Greenland. In addition, the State is responsible for a number of areas in Greenland. The Danish Parliament invites the government to work for a standard on Danish responsibilities in Greenland, which corresponds to the standard in Denmark with the deviations that can be justified in Greenlandic conditions, cf. the comments to the Self-Government Act. The Folketing considers that the question of Greenland's independence cannot be seen independently of a self-sustaining Greenlandic economy. • V 113).
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181159	Thank you. That too is now part of the further negotiations. We are grateful to Mrs Karin Gaardsted and the next rapporteur is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181207	Thank you, sir. President, and thank you very much for the floor. The Left's position on Greenlandic independence is, in fact, straightforward, as I have said several times in the past. If, at some point, the people of Greenland had to have a majority in favour of leaving the Kingdom, we would, of course, respect it. Personally, I would think it was incredibly sad. I'm having a hard time finding the right word. It would be like losing a part of who we are as Danes. It will be losing part of our history and losing part of our identity, but of course we will always respect a democratic majority. That was the short answer. The long answer is a bit more nuanced, because really, a lot of things are currently going in the right direction in Greenland. As the Prime Minister's statement shows, there is a current increase in Greenland's economy, not least in 2016, when growth was high. This is due, among other things, to: fishing, which has contributed significantly to the upward curve. Fishing is overflowing, and this can of course be felt in the Greenland economy. Having said that, there are still a number of challenges that Greenland faces. I'm not going to start summing them up here. I think that we have been well around it today, but at least there is an overwhelming need for reforms and new revenue to make Greenland's economy sustainable. I also mentioned some of them earlier in relation to transport, tourism and so on. Then there is a need for substantial budgetary improvements if the level of welfare, as we know it today, is to be maintained. With the economy we come to a crucial part of the question of Greenlandic independence, and that is the block grant, because although I stated in my short answer that the Left would of course respect if a majority in Greenland wanted to leave the Kingdom community, it presupposes a self-sustaining economy. Denmark gives in the region of 4 billion. kr. a year. This corresponds to just over half of the total income of the national treasury. They are therefore enormous resources which Greenland must find if it is to be possible to make it financially independent of Denmark. That is why I believe that the whole debate we are having right now on political independence should instead be replaced by economic independence. I am sure that if economic independence can be achieved, it is something that will strengthen the community and the cohesion of the Kingdom community. Personally, I would prefer the Kingdom community to exist, but of course I understand that parts of Greenland and the Faroe Islands want more determination over the domestic affair. When I say parts of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, it is also to remind Mrs Aleqa Hammond that when Mrs Aleqa Hammond says that Greenland wants independence, it is probably part of Greenland. I know it's not a unanimous Greenland who wants it. So I hope instead that we can focus on what we can do to strengthen the Kingdom community. As the Prime Minister said, what can we do to strengthen the teaching of the Kingdom community? What can we do to strengthen the exchange within the Kingdom community? It is an embarrassingly small number of Danes who have been in Greenland and the Faroe Islands and vice versa. What can we do to strengthen economic cooperation between Denmark, Greenland and the Faroe Islands? What can we do to strengthen joint investment, including in transport? What can we do to remove border barriers to make it easier to operate across the Kingdom community? In the case of Greenland, all these things should lead to a healthy Greenlandic economy in the long term, because I am sure that if we have a healthy Greenlandic economy, the joy of being in the Kingdom community is also considerably greater, and hopefully it will remove a large number of those who want to talk about political independence. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181557	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181601	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am a little disappointed that the Left is in favour of a vote, which simply states a few things and which states that, yes, the moon is not made of a green cheese, and we will not be able to do so anymore. It is disappointing when there are so many other things that could be tackled. We are talking about economic autonomy here. We talk independence in full. How does the rapporteur feel about this? How can Greenland ever become financially self-sufficient? So, Denmark is currently financing half of the funds needed for the Greenlandic community to run around, and there is no indication that it is getting better. Why is it that we are not realistic and face it and say that it must stop here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181702	Now I myself have been involved in formulating the text and working it through, and in fact I think it answers very well word for word, sentence for sentence, to the many sub-questions that we are being asked here, both in terms of independence and in terms of the economy and in terms of a possible economy after independence. And we make it very clear that independence cannot be seen as something independent of an independent Greenlandic economy. That is what we have said over and over again. At any rate, I have said it over and over again, namely that this will not happen within a reasonable timescale. And that is why I say again and again: let us look at it, not at political independence, because it is utopia within a time horizon, but instead let us look at what we can do to solve some of the challenges that are in Greenland, not least what we can do to give Greenland's economy a huge boost forward, because that is what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181758	Sir. Henrik Brodersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181800	Is it not actually the case that Greenland has technically gone bankrupt? In other words, if there is to be an economy to make it viable, then large-scale projects have to be multiplied by ten or twelve pieces, so that in any case it only comes to approximately the level we have today. I would like the rapporteur's proposal on where in the world that money would come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181826	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181827	Greenland has gone bankrupt, but, as I mentioned earlier, if you are going to give Greenland's economy a proper boost, I agree that there will then be some new, major steps to take. That's why I, uh... Our Greenlandic colleagues asked what can be done, for example. airports. I mean literally that as long as you have to carry a domestic plane around Greenland to get to Greenland and beyond at all, it creates some obstacles within, among other things. tourism, which means that the huge potential Greenland has is not allowed to grow.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181900	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523181904	Thus, the Greenlandic population and the Greenlandic Inatsisartut themselves decide which agenda they want to discuss in Greenland, whether it is about independence or not independence. And I think that is quite all right, too, whether Greenland wants independence or does not want independence, and when and how much we want to discuss it; it is also only the Greenlandic people who can decide it. The agenda shall not be set from here. And we also agree with each other on this under the Self-Government Act. I think that's really good too. Having said that, I would also like to mention that the rapporteur points out how we can help Greenlandic society to have a stronger economy than we do today. After all, Denmark also finances a great deal, 32 areas, which are 100%. under Danish jurisdiction, and these have been under-priority financially for many, many years, as members of parliament have also pointed out for a number of years to all parties and governments. Why don't you start by financing where Denmark has 100%? jurisdiction, to strengthen the Greenlandic economy and the cause areas, which is a direct Danish responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182017	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182019	But it is rather a contradiction that today we are talking so much about political independence, but at the same time we are adopting a text for adoption which calls for increased cooperation, for example. to attract investment to Greenland. It shows, of course, that there is a huge need for the Kingdom community if it is the case that Greenland has to have a strengthened economy. However, in relation to the specific question about the areas that Denmark is still taking care of, I think that the Prime Minister answered very well before by saying: Of course we must apply to the same standard in Denmark and in Greenland, but there are some among others. geographical challenges in Greenland, e.g. in relation to the village keepers, which makes it impossible to compare Denmark and Greenland one to one. But, of course, we will do everything we can to create a level playing field.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182108	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182111	The desire for independence does not necessarily mean that Denmark is not allowed to finance the matters that are 100 per cent. Danish responsibility. Regardless of our desire for independence, Denmark still has a responsibility to ensure that legal certainty is equal to legal certainty elsewhere, as the Prime Minister's own government has written. This also means, if you ignore the fine words over and over again, that it also obliges you to invest in the areas that have been neglected over many years. Does the rapporteur have a proposal in areas that can be started with in order to improve the efforts of Denmark in areas under Danish jurisdiction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182149	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182151	Well, if we take the jurisdiction, I wouldn't say 400 million. kr. just fine words • plus the huge effort of the Danish police in Greenland, also in cooperation with local employees in Greenland. Well, it's a huge effort we make across, precisely to ensure the best possible legal conditions in Greenland. But, of course, we are always open to looking at what we can do better, and that is why, in my speech during the last reading, I am, among others. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen thanked her for bringing forward initiatives in the field of justice in order to see what we can do more there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182224	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182227	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. After all, we in Inuit Ataqatigiits support the text of the adoption. There has also been dialogue and negotiation with the various parties, and we have achieved a result which is more noticeable, one might say. Because this is a politically sensitive area. That is why it is also important that we in the Danish Parliament should not become politicians, but that we should follow what is happening in Greenland in terms of working towards independence. At the same time, however, we must also look at where we can work together. As the rapporteur mentioned earlier, we support the work on this piece of justice that we have done in Inuit Ataqatigiit. I think it would be interesting to hear the rapporteur's views on the specific nature of some areas that we think we should go in and give priority to justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182318	I believe that the rapporteur is asking a question which the rapporteur himself was asked by our good colleague from the Social Democratic Party not long ago, so I will not go in and copy the answer. However, barley-farmers are one of the areas that is repeatedly highlighted. I am not going to stand here and learn about the individual solutions. It is a broad area also in relation to interrogation, in relation to language, in relation to detention houses, where we see that there are some challenges that are different in Greenland than they are in Denmark. However, I think we should wait for the more in-depth dialogue on this until we come to the debate that the rapporteur himself is starting here next week, as I remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182358	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182400	How can we ensure in the other more general areas, when we talk about defence policy or foreign policy, that there is better involvement in those areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182412	If I understand the rapporteur correctly, it is a question of getting Greenlandic input into defence. Now we have just seen the development we have with Arctic Command that has moved to Nuuk, and my impression is that there is a real, really fine dialogue both between our political development in defence, but of course also with the more operational. So I hope that is enough for the rapporteur. But this is an area where defence is clearly a very high priority in the coming period, because it is a priority for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182446	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. No one else has asked for short remarks, and we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523182500	Thank you. I think it is a bit of repetition that we are going to have in relation to the debate on the Kingdom Community, but it is not quite unnatural. I would like to say that I am impressed by Mr. Søren Espersen, but I think he has a rather rideboged approach to talking to equals in a collaboration. This could be done in Pelle Conqueror's time, but I do not think it is possible to do so in a modern society such as now that we should try to help each other. That's why we're in a kingdom community. Why should there be those who point fingers and try to be hindsight and say what the Greenlanders have to do to get along with this? Why are we not saying that we have some offers, some good ideas, and we are proposing one and the other and the third? The second, I think, is a negative approach to what I do not like. I don't think sir. Søren Espersen, if someone came and wanted to dictate Danish politics, would be happy and say: No, how nice that the EU comes and tells us how to make economic policy or for that matter a whole lot else in Denmark. Because you don't like that. If you have your own country and your own Parliament, then you like to plan according to your own culture and your own ideas and those things, and then you're happy to accept help and good ideas, but not that way. I think we are familiar with the role played by neither Mr Giscard d'Estaing nor Mr Giscard d'Estaing. Søren Espersen or I usually like it: the EU's top-down model, and I would like to say that I would like to try to promote equal cooperation. And if the Greenlanders think that in some areas they can benefit more from the community, then they should finally say so. I have mentioned the points in the last debate on the Commonwealth, which I believe can be dealt with, and I would like to repeat that I think there can be a great deal of energy in saying: we want to control our country ourselves and we want to create a situation so that we can be self-employed at some point. There is something very, very positive about that. There is usually the same when you talk to DFs about how Denmark should develop. That is why I think this debate is strange. I would like to say that we must offer to help correct the things that have been mentioned, and I will not repeat them over and over again and go deeper, but just mention them as the keywords: the social situation of children in Greenland, the initiatives for a better economy, the conditions of the guards and the legal system in Greenland. Some of them are our responsibility, and others are Greenland's responsibility. There is an unused potential in Greenland that can probably be released, but we cannot release it for them; we can say that we will come with some inspiration, that is, as Danes. There is also a development of industry, for example. the fishing industry, the development of the tourist industry and the extraction of raw materials in some areas. Those are the things that are on the basis of which the present government has pointed out as the main potential for development. I would like to support them, and there I would like to ask the question: where can we contribute in this context? Then I would like to say that we do not need to make contributions. We also have to say: where can we be where we have promised something? Yes, we have promised something about the service contract up in Thule, we have promised something about the cleanup in the country, especially with Camp Century, we have promised something about the way our part of things is running. We have also promised cooperation on international policy and foreign policy. We've promised something about how we use our defenses up there. We must also systematically improve this all the time, because it benefits Greenland, and we do not need to ask the Greenlanders about it. Because that's what we're agreed on. I would therefore like to say that I have great respect for people who say: we are setting ourselves a visionary objective, we have economic problems, we have social problems now, and we want to solve them too. Because it shows that it is a people with an attitude that they will be able to control their own country, that they will be able to develop it and also be able to have both economic and political freedom. Now I go back a little to the PM's statement on the Kingdom Community, and there they write on page 5: The public sector in Greenland... Now the time has passed, then I wait until later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183014	It's okay, 'cause it's time. There are no brief comments, so we thank Mr. Christian Juhl. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183032	Thank you. It has to be said that time passes quickly in the Parliamentary Chamber today. We want you to stay a little longer, I said, and then it is in my speech paper a little while ago, but I think it is no longer possible to say that, I think it is 4 hours ago, when we debated the Commonwealth in such a general way, and which is also true now that, at the request of the Danish People's Party, we are debating Greenlandic independence specifically. In the Liberal Alliance, we would very much like to maintain a strong and cooperative Kingdom Community, and that also means supporting the desire in Greenland for greater autonomy. It is in this spirit that we must develop continued cooperation in the Kingdom community. We must respect each other and we must cooperate in the many areas where Denmark and Greenland share common interests. From the Danish side, we must support economic development in Greenland towards a liberal, open market, so that the Greenlandic community is best geared to a possible future increase in autonomy. For constitutional independence will also mean economic independence, and in that case Greenland will have to be prepared to be able to cope without the financial subsidies that are being obtained today. We therefore believe that Denmark, together with Greenland's Self-Government, should work towards as much self-government as possible and as much as possible taken back administration within the Kingdom Community and, of course, in agreement. The Liberal Alliance therefore supports the text adopted by the Social Democrat rapporteur earlier today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183232	Thank you, sir. Carsten Bach and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Carsten Bach. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183249	Thank you, President. After all, we have already been involved in Greenland and the kingdom community. In the alternative, we support it, as I said, if the peoples of Greenland and the Faroe Islands want independence. Then we must do as much as possible to support them in their work towards independence. We hope that we can see three independent countries under the same constitution. We can only support that. As my colleague Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said last year that this work must be supported by a targeted process in order to create real self-determination and independence. If the people want to continue to participate in the community, but on a more equal footing, we can of course also work for it. Then we have the question of block grants. Personally, I believe that the story you buy when you have colonised another country, and that is my own personal attitude, means that you have said A, and then you have to say B. That is to say, you help this country to get to the level of other industrialised countries. Therefore, Denmark should also continue to provide financial compensation for the colonial period in Greenland. It is similar to what is called repairs, that is to say to pay some kind of compensation in order to recognise the damage and disadvantage caused and caused to a country during colonization. This does not really apply only to Greenland. This also applies to our doings and barn in the Danish West Indies and in slavery. That was my personal opinion. As rapporteur for the alternative, I have to say quite specifically that when we prepare visions in the alternative, we do not allow ourselves to be confined to the economy, but rather to think what kind of society we want. What kind of world do we want to contribute to? When we come down here in the Parliamentary Chamber, we have financed all our proposals crown by crown. This has been the case for the time being, and that will continue to be the case. But we allow ourselves to have the freedom that the preparation of the visions, which is the same as the Constitution for Greenland, should not be dictated by the economy. I also believe that Greenland should have that freedom in their constitutional work. Kiffaanngissuseq, ataatsimoorneq, freedom, community. Those were the words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183549	There is a brief remark from Mrs Karin Gaardsted
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183553	Thank you. It was because I just noticed that the rapporteur said that he felt that Denmark should continue to pay block subsidies to Greenland, even if Greenland had to decide to become an independent state. I would like to know whether the rapporteur has thought about how long it would be or whether it should also be considered that Denmark has at some point also been the head of Norway and parts of Sweden and also parts of Germany. Is there anywhere else where the rapporteur thinks we owe it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183632	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183634	Is there any other place we owe? Was that the question? So, as I said, I specifically mention Greenland and the Danish West Indies. We are not going to talk about the Danish West Indies now, but I would like to talk about that at another time. In relation to the length of time, I would like to say, and again it is my personal opinion, that I believe it has already been written into the Self-Government Act, that independence means that block subsidies must be phased out. So I am not talking about giving block grants and giving support forever. It is clear that it must be reduced, but I do not think it is a prerequisite for becoming self-employed that block grants should be stopped immediately.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183727	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183730	Is the rapporteur's personal opinion also the opinion of the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183736	In relation to the end of the block subsidy, as soon as one starts to speak of a constitution, I would say that yes, it is also the opinion of the alternative that the two things are not tied up. We have not discussed internally how long a block grant might have to continue after independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183754	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183759	In the excellent self-government law agreed between Denmark and Greenland, there are very clear guidelines for the economic phasing-out of the block subsidy after revenue from the raw material area they are very clear. In this context, in other words in the political arena, but also in the social debate, I have never heard words to compensate for colonisation and, more specifically, to be used by the rapporteur. I would just like to ask the rapporteur where the rapporteur gets it from and on which it is based.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183838	Thank you for the question. Again, I would like to say that this was my personal position in relation to our doing and barn towards Greenland and the Danish West Indies. So I do not think that the word compensation as such is in the self-government law or anywhere else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183857	There are no more questions, so we thank Mr. Roger Matthisen and move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523183908	Thank you. In the Radical Left, our position on the development of independence is crystal clear. Now this question only applies to Greenland, but it is in principle our view that the continued development of independence in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands and a strengthened affiliation to Denmark, quite simply, are not opposites. Rather, it will provide synergies if we do it right and if we do it together. There's an urge in all of us to be on our own. It comes from nature. There is an urge on the part of nature to have as much influence as possible on their own everyday life. It is natural, so of course it is something that is being worked towards and is focused on. Of course, as has been said several times in the debate here, working towards greater autonomy also requires Greenland to be more economically able to stand on its own feet. When we have a way for it in the long run, Denmark is also stronger, yes, it does the whole Kingdom community, because when there is greater economic resilience and growth in the cohesion that we have, we can also speak with a stronger voice. And the stronger partners, the stronger friends Denmark has, the stronger is Denmark too. So if we do it right and take a long and cool move, it can be an advantage for all of us. That is why it is absolutely essential that we do not talk down independence, but recognise that there may also be a common interest in that project. We must strive for the common direction and we must work in the same direction. And that is why the Radical Left can also support the proposal for adoption, which is supported by a majority, which calls for the balance between, on the one hand, clear support for Greenland's efforts to develop further and, on the other hand, the economy. The question of autonomy must of course also be seen in the light of the current economic situation in Greenland. As the text of the adoption shows, this cannot be separated. We will not be able to get there tomorrow; it has been apparent from the two questions that we have now and from the previous one. We get there at the rate you want from Greenland, and we get there when we have a direction, and that direction is not one we can each set, but it is a direction we create together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523184208	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard. There are no brief comments. We go further and the next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523184219	Thank you very much. A broad political majority in Inatsisartut has set up a Constitutional Commission which has the opportunity to work in two stages: with a constitution within the Kingdom Community and with a constitution based on Greenland's full autonomy. Last Friday the Constitutional Commission held their first meeting, and here the Constitutional Commission agreed that they would work with a model towards full independence. Inuit Ataqatigiit, who is the only Greenlandic party represented here in the Danish Parliament, is working to promote Greenland's interests, but also the interests of the Kingdom. Recently, the people of Greenland were asked whether they wanted independence, if that means a marked decline in welfare levels, and a majority said no. I am also one of this group, and I personally believe that we should also look at economic policy when discussing independence. Personally, I also believe that it is extremely important to ensure a self-sustaining economy and to ensure that the areas for which we ourselves are responsible today are also raised in education, social affairs, health, business policy and cultural policy. Today we have a very important task in Inatsisartut and in Naala Suisut, which has not yet been resolved satisfactorily. On the Greenland side, we also need to strengthen our alliance rather than break ties, and I would like to stress here that the relationship between Denmark and Greenland and between Greenland and the Danes in general is strong. There are so many personal relationships. There are also many of us who have Danish ancestors who are mixed up with our Greenlandic originator, and today's Greenlandic culture is also influenced by the long-standing relationship between the two countries and the two peoples. In addition, there are more than 16,000 Greenlanders who have chosen to settle in Denmark. This is something that I think should be taken into account and that is a very personal view. If we look at Greenland today, it can be said that there has been a huge development in Greenland since home rule in 1979. The challenges in the social field and in the field of education are well known and well discussed here in the Danish Parliament, but it is also important to remember that some of the first people to get a baccalaureate or to get an academic examination are from my parents' generation, and our society is still in full development. The level of education in Greenland is increasing, the dependence on the block grant has fallen slightly over the years, and although there are challenges, one can also say that Greenland is in many ways on the right path. In the area of industry, fisheries are in many ways a success and opportunities for exploiting resources in the underground are great, as we also know that tourism has even greater potential for development. It is a process in which over time we manage to exploit the human and natural resources that we have at our disposal in Greenland. It is a question of building a self-sustaining Greenlandic economy, and I think that is one of the reasons why this is so. We must also do so diplomatically and commercially by ensuring strengthened alliances and relations with other countries. Greenland is deeply dependent on a relationship with other countries, just as Denmark, which is also a geographically small country at least worldwide, depends on these relations. One of the challenges that I see very specifically in the relationship between Greenland and Denmark is how we perceive each other. It is about the fact that there are gaps in our understanding and knowledge of each other, and I think there is room for a great deal of improvement. If you ask Danish young people, you will hear that they know very little about Greenland and especially about the modern Greenlandic conditions, although it is also part of their own history. And in Greenland, however, many young people know a great deal about Danish society. There was talk earlier about this traveling between each other's countries, and in this way there are a lot of Greenlanders who have been in Denmark, and this does not always apply to the other way. At the same time, we also have a responsibility here in the Folketing to ensure a higher standard, among other things. in the fields of justice, defence and foreign policy. In my view, it is just as much a part of developing the Greenlandic society and looking at the tasks that we ourselves have here in the Danish Parliament. It is a task that we have today and the better we solve it, the more it will benefit the people for whom we work. Rather than looking only towards the future, I also think it is important that we look at what we can do today to ensure a better life for Greenlanders. If we want a stronger economy, a better society and a better basis for the future, it is also important to understand that the foundation is being laid today. What an independent Greenland will look like in the future is up to the Greenlandic people and the speed of implementation of the Self-Government Act. Here in the Folketing we have a task to ensure that we meet an equal standard in the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland. Qujanaq - thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523184753	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523184816	When I became a confirmed officer in 1979 in the same year as the home ruler became a mother who gave the speech, since she was alone in raising us three children, and she said that my vintage had been given the greatest gift of all gifts, namely home rule. It was important for her to tell me that I should feel co-owning and serving my country, for it would make us stronger and freer than her own generation. She planted a seed inside me and an inspiration to think bigger. The desire for independence and the desire to take responsibility for all our own affairs has been passed on to the next generation. I think that's really beautiful. This seed is unfolding. Self-sufficiency: I feel incredibly privileged because I live in a time when we are really in the process of shaping autonomy in Greenland and taking care of our own affairs. We now have a Naalakssuisoq for independence, and the constitutional work has received broad political support at home in Greenland. Denmark and Greenland have jointly developed the Self-Government Act, a law that we can both be very proud of, and a law that is considered best practice worldwide, in relation to how two countries can cooperate in a secession based on respect and understanding. I personally believe that independence will remain in my lifetime, and I have great criticism for that too. The Greenland in which I grew up, and the Greenland I live today, are two very different worlds and societies. I have grown up in a country with its own parliament and with its own government, a new generation of educated young people, and the desire for self-determination has grown dramatically since. Political awareness is very strong and we have never trained as many as we do today. We are aware of our own serious problems, but we also take a great deal of responsibility and do what we can to solve the problems on our own terms and based on our own mistakes and experiences. I would like to be present the day when we sing our national anthem and the Greenland flag is hoisted and there is worldwide news that Greenland has become independent. I cannot imagine a bigger day and, of course, I want to be here. Who wouldn't? Greenland's independence process is not just political, but it is about self-consciousness, an awareness of our culture, an awareness of our problems, an awareness of our traditions, an awareness of our own solutions, an awareness of our partners and much more, a process that is as much a Greenlandic responsibility as it is a Danish responsibility. Both nations must live up to the agreements we have with each other. If this is to be achieved, it is the responsibility of both, until otherwise decided. We are aware of the size of our country, we are aware of the location of our country, we are aware of the possibilities of our country and, above all, of the importance of our country to the world community, a starting point which in itself strengthens us and gives us the courage to go all the way towards independence. I support the adoption text of the majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185155	Thank you. There is a brief comment on Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185200	Qujanaq. Thank you very much. You mention that you have experienced home rule and self-government, and you have experienced it very closely, you can also say, among other things. as Chairman of the Naala Suisut. I was born in 1977 myself, just before home rule, so in many ways it is another way I might see things. One of the things that I think is extremely important is that we are not only talking about talking toasts and symbolism policy, but that we are also dealing with precisely what responsibility we have as politicians towards the people we represent. So my question is very brief: how can we ensure, with the many tasks, which are, after all, laid down in the Self-Government Act, and the implementation of the Self-Government Act, that we get even more turbo on them? Because that is just as much the way to independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185258	It is incredibly important that the implementation of the powers of self-government takes place in close cooperation with the people, so that everyone feels a sense of belonging to the path we are going along. I myself come from Uummannaq, who is considered a little remote, and speaks entirely Greenlandic in family circles, so I may have a slightly different approach to the world and everyday life than the rapporteur does. In this context, I also see that the people believe a great deal in the income that Greenland can face. This is specifically about fisheries, it is about tourism, and it is about raw materials. The three pillars that underpin future economic development in Greenland are very often what people relate to when they talk about economic independence, and most people do not talk about block subsidies coming forever. I believe that there is generally a great deal of support and support to think together about new revenues for Greenland's economic independence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185409	Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185410	Thank you very much. I was born in Nuuk and raised in Greenland, both my parents are Greenlandic, and both my parents speak Greenlandic. When I grew up, it was modern to speak Danish. This has been the case in Nuuk, at least in periods, and in many ways one can say that I also represent a modern Greenland, which must also be accommodated. And that is why I think that some of what is interesting in this whole process of self-government is also to find out: where do we actually have common interests and where are we able to gather together on the society that we want to have together?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185450	The self-government law that we all follow, and which I think is a really, really nice law, doesn't say that there is a difference between people, whether you grew up in Greenlandic or not. It is a law that respects all the citizens of the country, regardless of what language may now be spoken at home, but the law of autonomy sets the framework conditions for how a society will be linked, including in terms of language, and that the Greenlandic language is the official language of Greenland. I think that the self-government law should be the unifying body for all the different backgrounds that may now be in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185531	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. Then I must interrupt the negotiations between the Vice-President and the Prime Minister, because now it is the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523185545	Thank you for that, and also thank you for this debate, which was a little repetitive on certain lines in relation to the one we have just had, but which, as such, does not shake the fact that I am pleased that we have had it and that there is also broad agreement in the Danish Parliament on a proposal for adoption on the basis that we naturally respect the fact that Greenland has started constitutional work. I mentioned in my opening remarks that it is not fully established whether the Commission is only preparing a proposal for a constitution to apply to an independent Greenland, or also a proposal to apply while Greenland is part of the Kingdom Community. I hope this will be clarified, and I also hope that it is clear that we have the natural expectation that a future Greenlandic constitution will respect the Constitution if the Constitution is to apply while Greenland is part of the Commonwealth. If it has the other aim, i.e. an independent Greenland, it is quite a different perspective. In any case, I would like to acknowledge the commitment of the national government to cooperate with the government on this issue. We will, of course, follow the work of the Commission, and I also have the expectation that a direct dialogue will be established between members of the Naala Suisut for independence and the Minister for Justice if there is a need for discussions between the government and the national government along the way. The question of Greenland's constitution raises some challenges if the draft Constitution is put to a referendum. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight this here today, because it was also an issue that presented challenges to the Faroe Islands' desire back in 2001 for a referendum on independence with deferred entry into force, that is to say, if you operate with the idea that you have a constitution which, in principle, will enter into force when you become self-employed and you vote with deferred entry into force. At that time, the government considered the first vote that the Faroe Islands would take to be a de facto vote on independence, even though it was not until the final vote on independence ten years later. It is clear that such a vote on independence with deferred entry into force would, if necessary, trigger a process which must take place between the government and the national government on the implementation of Greenland's independence, and here international law requires that various issues be discussed. This concerns, among other things: on the nationality of persons affected by Greenland's independence. I am not saying this here because I have in any way an ambition to stand and anticipate any conclusions here today, but just to report the problem, because it has to be based, if necessary, on the specific circumstances that exist at the time when it might arise. But I just repeat, for the sake of good order, that I cannot imagine a situation in which the state's grant or task solution continues for a longer period after Greenland's independence. That is also what has been the general picture when I have listened to the rapporteurs here today, and that is why we must of course remember what we were talking about at the start: the economic value of the current block grant, the economy linked to the tasks which Denmark can undertake and the tasks which are matters of concern and which, of course, will also be transferred to an independent Greenland. So, in this light, the theme of a possible referendum in Greenland is, of course, absolutely central, and I assume that there will be a dialogue between the government and the Naala Suisut before a proposal is put to the vote if necessary. The crucial issue here is economics, and a Greenland on its own is a self-sustaining economy. There are three elements in this overall. Firstly, as I mentioned in my introduction, and as has also been the subject of today's debate, Greenland needs reforms and new revenue. Financial policy is not sustainable. According to the Greenland Economic Council, the sustainability challenge is therefore in the region of 1 billion. kr. or 7%. of GDP in 2035. This is a reality which, if necessary, must be addressed. Secondly, there is the state's contribution to Greenland, which is, of course, this 3.7 billion. kr. or just over half of the total income of the national treasury, which currently makes it possible to have a higher level of prosperity than would otherwise be possible and which, by its very nature, will also have to relate to the absence of, in a scenario of autonomy. Thirdly, there are the more than 30 areas which Greenland has the opportunity to take over, but which are still managed by the state, and where we currently have costs in the region of an estimated 0.5 billion. kr., where it follows from the Act of Self-Government that Greenland itself finances these matters if they are taken over. Finally, as I mentioned in my first speech, there are indeed those tasks which are the responsibility of the rich and which are currently being carried out in a way that is used in the region of 0.5 billion. kr. on the defence mission; it is strengthened with the Arctic effort we have agreed, which will be added an additional 120 million. kr. So it is certainly important that these things are kept in mind in relation to the further work. Having said that, I have the greatest respect for the fact that in Greenland you decide which political issues you want to focus your energy on. I only hope that the things I have mentioned here will be taken into account in the further work, and I will just repeat what I have said before, namely that, in my view, the current system of self-government is quite unique. It provides security for the Greenlandic community, which has challenges, while Greenland has the opportunity to take over further competence and develop self-determination at the rate that Greenland itself wants it to happen. So let me conclude by thanking everyone for a good and committed debate, not just about Greenland's future in this question debate, but about the Kingdom Community in general in the previous debate. It's been a couple of interesting hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190226	Thank you, Prime Minister. But it is not quite rounding up, because there is a brief comment from Mr Beazley. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190233	I note that the Prime Minister said that it is based on a specific fact at a specific time, whether it is one or the other. Does the Prime Minister not think that the Greenlanders know very well that one cannot just be independent without having one's economy in order and without having consequences for the present Kingdom community? When I meet people, both in Greenland and here, it is my opinion that they talk a lot about it and are very, very aware that this is a long-term project. But it is a dream they have and an idea they have and they would also like to try to discuss what a constitution might look like. I guess there's nothing unconstitutional about discussing and trying to do that. I can hardly imagine a constitution in Greenland that would be contrary to the Danish constitution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190324	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190326	It must then be a lack of imagination if you cannot imagine a constitution that could be contrary to the Constitution. For a constitution that separates Greenland is not in accordance with the constitution and is therefore de facto a secession. That's the way it is. I cannot, of course, know what kind of basis each Greenlander is discussing. I have complete respect for the discussion, and I also have respect for the dream. My contribution to the discussion is thus just the portion of realism to draw attention to what is the current economic situation in Greenland and what the effect of the Danish block grant is. Every time there's 1 kroner. in the Greenlandic national bank, the 50 cents come from the state. In addition, in Greenland, tasks can be carried out by Denmark, which can be taken home, to the region of 0.5 billion. kr., and that in addition to the tasks of the Rich Authority, it is also in the order of 0.5 billion. kr. These are the dry figures, and that is at least the economic challenge facing us at the time when we want to manifest independence. That is why I think it is both fair and fair and proper to bring it into the memory of everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190441	- Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Christian Juhl a further comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190443	Thank you. All due respect for the Prime Minister's willingness to draw attention to these things, but there is also a dynamic in wanting both economically and politically to have the foot under his own desk. That is why I think that it is good for Greenland, when you have to work your way out of the big problems, that you also have some visions and some dreams of where you want to go, instead of being forever dependent on Denmark. I think that should be appreciated. I would like to hear from the Prime Minister: what clause of the Constitution will be broken if the new Greenland constitution states that the goal is to become independent?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190524	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190525	Now I do not know whether the rapporteur has been present throughout the debate, but it is the case that the mandate adopted in Greenland operates with two scenarios, in other words, a constitution within the framework of the Constitution, or, in other words, a constitution within the Kingdom Community, and a constitution after independence. I then explained in my first speech that, at the moment, it is not quite clear, at least not to me, whether you are operating only in one scenario or in both scenarios, because on top of the mandate there has been a political debate in Greenland. I would, of course, like to clarify that. There is no problem at all in this as well in relation to the last debate, because we are also talking about the Faroe Islands if you operate within what you might call identity documents that respect the fact that you are still in the Kingdom Community. Where a challenge may arise is if you create a constitution which is de facto a constitution based on independence and puts it to the vote with deferred entry into force, and if it is read as a de facto withdrawal, then Greenland is faced with the challenge of signing up with the effect that we in Denmark have to decide how the block grant is to be phased out, which currently takes up more than half of the Greenlandic public economy. That is why, first and foremost, and this is just my signal, we need transparency in this process, we need dialogue, we need cooperation and we are making ourselves available and we also have a desire and an expectation that this will also apply to the other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190657	The next question is Mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190701	Thank you again to the Prime Minister for his statement. Does the Prime Minister have any reason to assume that Greenland will not be transparent in their internal conversations about constitutional work or transparent when they are now going into dialogue with Denmark on export?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190725	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190727	Do I have any reason to do so? I can only note that I am here in a question debate on this subject, without having the information sources available to me, to have a clear overview of whether this Commission is working on two parallel tracks or only on one, although it is clear from the mandate that there are two tracks. That is what I can conclude at the moment with the information I have, which is the mandate and therefore also a subsequent press release from the Commission, which at least what expression should I use here? Cardinals? Yes, I could use that to nuance the impression you can get after reading the terms of reference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190814	Does that mean there is a desire for further questions? You can press before the answer is complete. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190823	Thank you, Mr President. I was so obsessed with the PM's answer that I didn't just get in touch. I just need to get this straight. Whether you work in one or two tracks, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister has any reason to believe that, before operating one of the two tracks, Denmark is of course involved. Does the Prime Minister have reason to believe that Greenland will act differently?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190853	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190855	This isn't about what I have reason to believe or not believe. This is about getting a point of view and an expectation to clarify this. I just express the wish, the ambition, the expectation that there will be a dialogue. No, I have no concrete reason to believe anything but that it is reciprocated the other way. That's my best hope. Then I will just note again that, in relation to the mandate which is written and communicated, a meeting of the Commission has subsequently been held from which a press release has been issued. If you read the press release and the mandate, it certainly raises some questions. So there is certainly a room for clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190944	The next question is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523190947	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. I certainly hope that he will get that clarification, because there is no doubt that dialogue and transparency are really important in this process. As far as I am aware, there is no earmarked money in the block subsidy, which is why it can be said that the block subsidy forms part of the basis of the economy in Greenland and that it forms part of the welfare benefits, but they are not as such earmarked. I think that is important to note. When we talk about the constitution, we often talk about it as a very permanent size, but one can actually say that it says in the constitution that there is only one parliament, but we see today that there are three different parliaments, namely in Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark. So you could also be a little fresh and ask if the time has run out of the Constitution. So if, on behalf of this Constitutional Commission, Naala Suisut came to the government and asked if one could be willing to engage in a dialogue about another foundation, another constitution, what would the government's position be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191053	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191054	I think I would be relatively reserved for that, because I see no constitutional revision for myself, but I have to deal with it if the situation should arise. It is true that the block subsidy is not earmarked, and that is also the case with the money in the Danish Treasury. They're not colored or tagged, but they're there, and they come in, and they come out. And the situation is that with the current block grant to Greenland, the block grant amounts to 55%. of Greenland's income, i.e. the income of the treasury. So every time there's 1 kroner. In the box, the 50 cents come from Denmark. That's just the way it is. In addition, in Greenland, therefore, tasks are carried out by Danish taxpayers in the region of 0.5 billion. kr., which could in principle be taken back already now, when it then appears from the legislation that it should be financed, if necessary, within the framework of the Greenland economy. In addition, these powers are of a similar size. It's just a fact you have to relate to. I am not saying that to put out any dream of independence at all, but it is clear that in the journey there it is important to have with both in order to determine the pace, that is, when you reach the goal, but of course also in relation to keeping the focus on some other themes next to this discussion, namely the question of how to get economic autonomy, that is, sustainability into Greenland's economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191228	There is one further question from Mrs Aleqa Hammond, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191232	Early last year, the North Atlantic mandate was invited to a meeting of the Minister of Social Affairs to discuss and discuss border barriers in the Commonwealth. In this context, we made some very clear proposals on how to resolve these border barriers so that a much more smoother co-existence could be achieved in the Kingdom community. We were very confident. Now it had to be initiated and there would be a briefing to the Greenland Committee thereafter. But there hasn't really been anything since. When I held my last meeting with the Minister for Social Affairs, the Minister for Social Affairs referred me to the Prime Minister. So I want to hear the Prime Minister's own suggestion as to how the work on removing border barriers in the Kingdom community is progressing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191324	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191326	Now it's a little unclear to me when the last time is and who talked to whom when and when last was. In other words, if there is a need for more momentum into the work than there is already, I am very happy to hear about it, and I will follow it up. Well, I only have one ambition. Now we had that debate about the Kingdom community before; here we have a concrete debate about the constitutional work in Greenland and Greenland's economy, but let it be. I have no wish but that the obstacles within the Danish Empire should be overcome. This applies both in the relation Denmark-Greenland and Denmark-Færøerne. We've made a resort distribution to drive it forward. If there are challenges with that, I would actually like to call for it to be dealt with directly with me afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191417	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191419	The last was in connection with our informal meeting of the Greenland Committee with the Prime Minister, where we called for a service to be given to the issue of border barriers. The government's basis states that legal certainty in Greenland must reach the same level as in the rest of the kingdom community. In this context, I would like to ask the Prime Minister when we can count on the first initiatives to strengthen legal certainty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191448	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191449	After all, we are taking ongoing initiatives, and now it is not to be right about the questioner at all, but we had that debate a moment ago under the F 57. So just to ensure that we do not have the wrong focus on it, I would say that the debate we have now is a debate about Greenland's constitutional work and Greenland's economy. It is quite fair, and I fully agree that you can choose to focus on Danish task solution in Greenland, and we must be able to achieve that. We have the ambition that we should solve the tasks at a level that matches what we usually do, with the moderation that there may be special circumstances in Greenland or in the Faroe Islands, as I also said in the last question debate. And one of them is certainly the geographical one. So that's fair enough. It should just not focus on what we are talking about here, which is about a process that has been set in motion in Greenland with a view to a constitution that potentially leads to independence, and it is linked to what is the economic situation in which Greenland finds itself. I therefore believe that the important thing that remains, also in relation to the subsequent Greenlandic debate, is that Greenland has a number of economic challenges which are at least not at present addressed. And these are some challenges that must be taken into account in this debate about what exactly a constitution is being drawn up and what its purpose is. Is it identity or independence, and what is the deadline for that? That's what this debate was about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191625	We thank the Prime Minister. As no one else has asked for the year, the debate has ended. May 2017
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191649	I should also like to point out here that the vote on any proposals for adoption will not take place until Monday 29 May 2017. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party, who is allowed to justify the request. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191729	Thank you for that, and I shall be very brief. On behalf of all the parties of the Danish Parliament, I shall ask the Minister for Climate Change about the future energy policy initiatives in the light of the energy policy statement that we have been circulated and read. I believe that certain political differences and nuances will emerge when we embark on the debate. However, we all agree that there is an important discussion and we are therefore pleased that the Minister for Climate Affairs will respond to the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191800	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it is the minister for reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523191805	Thank you to the President and thank him. Jens Joel. I have been looking forward to the debate on the energy policy statement. This allows for a good debate on energy policy in Denmark. I believe that we in Denmark have long led an ambitious energy policy with very renewable energy in the system, high security of supply and focus on the development of green energy technology. The government will, of course, continue these tactics, and that is why we have set the ambitious goal that Denmark should have at least 50% by 2030. of its energy needs covered by renewable energy. The 2030 target is a good step towards the long-term goal that the Danish energy system should be independent of fossil fuels by 2050. But I would like to start a completely different place from domestic politics, which is in the world. It is clear that the Danish energy policy cannot be seen in isolation. We also need to move globally and, fortunately, there are also globally good bars. As the statement also shows, the world, with the Paris Agreement and the UN's 17 World Goals from 2015, has for the first time been given a global framework for the green transition. As responsible for two thirds of global greenhouse gas emissions, the energy sector is at the heart of this. Virtually all countries' climate targets include an increase in the use of renewable energy and increased efforts to promote energy efficiency. The transformation of the international energy system is therefore already under way. Renewable energy prices have fallen dramatically in recent years and in 2016 1261⁄2 gigawatt solar and wind energy was installed globally. These are impressive figures, and that is also a new record. The green transition is expected to accelerate in the coming years. This will increase international demand for green solutions and, at the same time, increase competition to deliver the energy technology of the future. Denmark is, fortunately, well equipped in that competition. In March, the government launched an overall energy export strategy, and this is the first of its kind in Danish history. The strategy is to ensure that Denmark remains a pioneer country and exploits its energy strengths. The ambitions are large and the goal is that we will at least double our energy technology and service exports by 2030. At the same time, Denmark continues to advise major emerging economies such as China, South Africa, Vietnam and Mexico on policies to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. This work is an important Danish contribution to the global transformation. The cooperation works at the same time as a good showcase for Danish companies' green solutions, and therefore it also helps to increase Danish export opportunities. If we zoom a little into the big emerging economies, it is also quite clear that energy policy is at the heart of the European agenda. As late as November 2016, the Commission launched a comprehensive winter energy package. The package is a key part of the implementation of the EU Energy Union and covers everything from energy efficiency and energy efficiency in buildings to renewable energy, a new design of the electricity market and a management system for the Energy Union. The Winter Package is an important contribution to ensuring the EU's energy and climate objectives. The package must therefore help to ensure that the European Union is able to deliver on the 2030 targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency improvements, and it must support the green transition and modernisation of the European economy at all. The European energy systems and energy markets are now closely linked together. The winter package can therefore help to pave the way for energy to flow more freely across borders within the European Union. It is also the Government's hope that the winter package will help to boost the development of an internal electricity market. Here, the Nordic Region must be a role model for Europe in order to illustrate how to ensure cost-effective integration of large amounts of renewable energy. This should be done through extensive trade across borders, where we benefit from each other's resources. On the more domestic levels, the Energy Commission published its recommendations on the energy policy of the future on 24 April this year. This is a highly qualified and ambitious piece of work, which represents a significant contribution to the government's proposal for a new energy agreement that will be presented in autumn 2017. In order to ensure that the transition to the low-mission society is carried out in a sensible way, a paradigm change is needed in the way we conduct energy policy today in Denmark. I am particularly sensitive to three recommendations from the Energy Commission. Firstly, the market must play a greater role. The Energy Commission recommends that we can no longer politically identify one particular technology and one fixed path from here to 2030. On the other hand, we must put some pointers and steer them by following developments and allowing the market to offer the right solutions so that we can have as much green conversion as possible for the money. Secondly, I am sensitive to the Commission's recommendation that we should be better at using our green energy. There is a need for increased electrification in e.g. the heating sector. Thirdly, I agree with the Energy Commission that it is sensible to look at energy taxes. Energy taxes today provide approx. 40 billion. kr. in the Treasury a year, so it's not an easy exercise like that to turn it all upside down. The Energy Commission's recommendations have an important role to play in relation to the forthcoming Energy Agreement. As you probably already know, the government will present a proposal for a new broad energy agreement in the autumn, and here the recommendations will include: form the basis for parts of the playout. Of course, a new energy agreement must also play up to the government's 2030 target of at least 50%. renewable energy. I can't wait to present the show this autumn. I cannot go into detail about the content at this stage, but the paper must contribute to the government's overall vision that Denmark should have the most integrated, market-based and flexible energy system in Europe. It must be an energy system that can handle increasing volumes of renewable energy in a cost-effective way while maintaining one of the highest levels of security of supply and lowest wholesale electricity prices in Europe. On the whole, I think it is essential that we help renewable energy sources to a place where they do not need any support at all. One of the ways we do this is to ensure that there is competition between technologies. As it is today, we do not really know the real price of land wind, for example. I know that you and many others are eagerly waiting for what will replace the current rural wind farm subsidies, but I still cannot lift the veil of a concrete model. It is a work that requires thoroughness and it is extensive, and at the same time it will have significant consequences for the way in which renewable energy is supported, and it requires us to be thorough in our work on it. However, I am working to present a proposal before the summer recess, and it is therefore still my intention that we should get on with a clarification before we have to negotiate a new energy settlement. So I do not yet have a complete model in place, but I can say so much that in the new model there must be competition between the technologies, and this could well be a form of technology-neutral supply. Although, of course, this is the way we go, Danish energy policy is also much more than just renewable energy. As you know, we also have a good oil and gas industry. which is very much alive in the North Sea. On 22 March 2017, the Government concluded a political agreement with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Radical Left on the development of the North Sea. At the same time, on 23 March 2017, the Government entered into an agreement with A.P. Møller - Mærsk A/S and Mærsk Oil and Gas on behalf of the DUC on the full reconstruction of the facility on the Tyra field. The political agreement contains concessions which, on the one hand, make it more profitable for DUC to rebuild Tyra. On the other hand, demands are made, for example. on improving access for third parties to central infrastructure. This will benefit the whole sector and ensure the efficient use of resources in the North Sea. In addition, the agreement also contains a pool for experiments with more environmentally friendly and energy-efficient production of oil and gas. Now the agreement needs to be followed up. The long-awaited oil and gas strategy will be published in cooperation with the industry and the agreement's requirements for improved third-party departure must be implemented in the legislation. Finally, I would like to conclude with a few cuts in the core areas of energy policy. The energy policy statement is, of course, a review of them, and I would like to highlight a few. Winning bid on Krieger's Flak with 37.2 cents per. kilowatt-time was a great world record at the time of the bidding. The winds of the sea continue to exceed all expectations of the price, and it is exciting what it can become. In December, the pilot offer of solar cells was settled with a fine bid. The offer gave a subsidy price of 12.89 cents per year. kilowatt-hour, which is given as a fixed price surcharge on top of the market price for 20 years. It is significantly cheaper than the aid schemes that have otherwise been. I believe that both pilot and Kriegers Flak show how supply is a good mechanism to drive down the price of renewable energy. Many of you in this Chamber also helped to conclude a historic PSP agreement in November last year. The agreement abolishes the PSO tax and transfers the cost of renewable energy to the Finance Act. The abolition of the PSO tax is done in a way that strengthens Danish business and is socially balanced. It will also be cheaper for both Danish households and companies. I would like to conclude by mentioning what I think are two beautiful features of the Danish energy policy, namely that it is ambitious and that it has broad support. It is important that the energy policy of the future has the same characteristics. We must ensure the broad consensus and thus ensure that we achieve the cost-effective transformation, which is a guiding force for government policy and a policy that is absolutely possible. I and the government will work to create a new broad energy policy agreement for the period after 2020 during this parliamentary term. In energy and climate policy, long-term and stable framework conditions are important. It seems to me that it is essential to maintain Denmark's green leadership that we get an agreement in place in good time by 2020 on how energy policy will look after 2020. There are almost 60,000 Danish jobs and 84 billion. kr. in play on exports, and I am in work clothes and very much hope that the rest of the Danish Parliament will agree with me that it will be timely care to have a new broad energy agreement made in good time by 2020. I look forward to the dialogue on a new agreement when the government delivers its proposal in the autumn, and now I look forward to hearing the dialogue in this Chamber. Thank you for the floor and good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193001	We can then thank the Minister and then go to the rapporteur for the questions, Mr President. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party, first in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193015	Thank you for that and, above all, thank you to the Minister for your reply. There's a lot of places to start. I would like to start where the Minister ended: the importance of energy policy, not only for future generations, for the planet on which we live, and for the green transition, but also for growth, jobs and business. There is no doubt that it plays a major role. We are in the process of a green transition, which is primarily about ensuring sustainable use of our planet and a tradition to our children and grandchildren, as we may be aware, but which also, because we have a leading position in Denmark, gives us unique opportunities to create jobs around the country to 3F's, metal workers and engineers across various skilled companies working with the green area. There should be no doubt that we in the Social Democratic Party are in fact very concerned about some of the things that the government has done in the barely two years that the government has been government and where the mantra has been the green realism, which in reality has been more of a black self-target. Some climate ambitions have been lowered; energy research has been cut massively, that is, what we have to live on in the future; and attempts have been made to cancel wind farms, which we had already agreed and offered. And that's the wrong way to go. That is why we need to get things back on track. I very much agree with the Minister that broad agreements are good, but that also requires that the second part of the Minister's speech, that is, with the ambitious aim in mind, be kept in mind. We must ensure that we also make forward-looking use of the leading position we have at the moment. It can be said that with the climate agreement in Paris a green race was launched, where the whole world is going to invest in some of the green solutions that we can make in Denmark. And this is quite the wrong time to take the foot off the accelerator and say: then we slow down here at home. For then we run the risk that the learning money and the leadership we have built up over 30-40 years will not be translated into jobs, growth and business development in the country. In relation to the next energy settlement, Social Democracy also agrees with the paradigm shift advocated by the Energy Commission. We simply need not only to produce renewable energy as we are today, but also to be better at using renewable energy. This requires electrification; it requires us to invest massively in a more flexible system that can handle renewable and fluctuating energy; and it requires us to invest in, for example, storage technology, so that we can, in popular terms, save wind power for the days when it doesn't blow. We simply have to get into a situation where we use more of the green stream and not just produce more. Because if we can ensure that consumption and if we can secure a system that can deal with it, then I actually believe that the Minister and the companies are right in saying that the price of renewable energy will continue to fall. So, if you can handle it and drag it into the system, it is true that it is quite impressive what both sun and wind have achieved over the last few years in terms of ensuring cheapening. This shows, of course, that the investments made at the beginning, the developments and the fact that the agreements made at home could be trusted have indeed been converted into extremely beneficial technological developments, which now also provide many export earnings and jobs in this country. However, we have also been going beyond the sometimes failing ambitions of some, let us call them duty tasks that are on the table right now. The Minister himself mentioned that he was aware that the support for land winds and the current system will expire in February. When we met in February and discussed it at a conference in here at Christiansborg, the government said it was something you would bring in in a moment. And it was also said that it was not something that surprised the government and that it had been working on it for a long time. There it is, then, that we say: let us now have that discussion. Because it is now the case that we are so close to abolishing the old system that, if we are to invest in land winds at this time, we cannot actually get our project approved until the current rules expire. And we don't know what's coming instead. It is clear that there will then be a full stop to investment in this area, and it is a pity, not least all the time that land wind is actually the cheapest form of renewable energy. And if you are going to take the Minister's wish for as much renewable energy as possible for money for good goods, this is an area in which we simply do not have time to wait any longer. The same applies to heat pumps, which we have been discussing for a very long time, and where we have still done something that is moving in the right direction, but not enough, to make them actually an attractive alternative. In other words, we are not getting our green wind power into the district heating sector, and that is simply not good enough. In connection with a number of data centres that have come to the country, there has been discussion about the use of surplus heat. Of course, it must also be used sensibly, but it is not only with the arrival of the data centres that this discussion arose. In fact, I think this is a rather unfortunate example of things taking far too long in politics. I once, when I visited a company at Aarhus Harbour, met a guy, Gert, who said: Can't you fix it there with excess heat, because it's a bit crazy that we pour it into the harbor. That's when I thought it was before I joined the Parliament that we could do that. But I just have to say that six years after that, we still haven't managed to get it together, and that's crazy. We have a joint responsibility to resolve this, and it has to be right now. I would like to read on behalf of a number of parties: the Social Democracy, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the SF a proposal for adoption. And it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament finds that the government, with the reduction of climate ambitions, the attempt to cancel already agreed wind farms and the drastic reduction in energy technology research, is in danger of compromising Denmark's green leadership. It will not only damage the environment and climate, but also the Danish business community. It's the wrong way to go. The Folketing wants an ambitious energy reconciliation for the period after 2020, reflecting the new challenges of the green transition. While the price of renewable energy is falling dramatically, the need to create a more flexible energy system, research into storage technology, etc., is increasing, enabling us to make better use of the green power we produce. The Danish Parliament also stresses that the government's current approach to solar energy is unsatisfactory. The Danish Parliament points out a number of urgent tasks relating to better use of surplus heat, support for heat pumps and a new aid scheme for landwind, which the government should immediately start negotiations on in order to reduce disadvantages for industry, the green transition and the economy. • V 114).
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193745	Thank you to the rapporteur and the proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. It has given rise to a few questions, first from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193757	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. In connection with the speech, Mr. Jens Joel said that he agreed, in general and overall terms, with the Energy Commission's recently presented report and its recommendations. Before mr. Jens Joel said it, said Mr. Jens Joel also, that he actually wanted to keep his foot on the accelerator, in connection with that Mr. Jens Joel mentioned the future expansion of renewable energy. And how does Mr. So, Jens Joel tell you that this expansion is gonna take place? What forms of supply, etc. I'm telling you, sir. Jens Joel said that it would be used in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193838	Actually, I think it's a misunderstanding. I may have been unclear, but when I talk about keeping my foot on the accelerator, it's about the transition. It is not just about the expansion of renewable energy, because, to put it bluntly, the new challenge is that the success can be measured not only in how many wind turbines or how many solar cells come up, but also how good we are at using the power. It can therefore be said that we need to focus on some new places, in other words where we have a problem in connection with the forthcoming green transition. It is with electrification; it is with the flexible system; it is with ensuring that our green electricity enters district heating; and it is with securing storage technology that requires some investment. And there it is, then, just that I say that when you look at the Energy Commission, as the government does, and support their conclusions, you just shouldn't misunderstand it in the way that the Energy Commission says: from now on we don't have to do anything, because now the market is running it itself. The whole point is that it is a new challenge that we have been given because we have become very good at producing renewable energy. Now we have to crack the next nuts in the transition, and that is actually what I meant by keeping the green transition going, not just in the expansion of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193948	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523193954	Thank you. I agree with several of the rapporteur's conclusions, but the rapporteur did not answer the question in this way, because I do not think that Mr. Jens Joel will completely stop the expansion with renewable energy in Denmark. So I would just like to ask again: what kind of procurement process does Mr. Jens Joel and the Social Democrat that the continued expansion of renewable energy needs to be carried out with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194017	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194018	I'm sorry, but it was actually because I thought it was the least controversial part. I can see that we are going somewhere where there are some technologies that compete with each other, that is, what the Minister would call technology neutrality, and that requires that we can compare so that it does not become apples and pears. It requires that you have a system so that you can sort out what the prize is, that there are no neighbor genes, and all sorts of other things. And then it takes a look at new technologies. If we did so today, that we said that all renewable energy needs to be supplied and that it has to happen across all technologies, then we would stop biogas from tomorrow because it is more expensive than wind and wind and sun. That is why technology neutrality is a good headline, but it must work in practice. And this is not the same as saying that there should be nothing other than technology-neutral tenders, because then we will not be supported, for example, the biogas. It is my expectation that meets some other needs, because gas has other characteristics than power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194125	There are further questions from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194128	Thank you. The rapporteur mentioned that we should use more of the green stream, and I quite agree with that, but I just think that it is a bit colliding with other processes, such as the fact that there should now be more cable connections abroad. The rapporteur also mentioned that we should have more heat pumps, and I can also see that when we get into the situation of more electric cars, we could actually store the flow there instead of exporting it abroad. So I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not see the need to outline alternatives to the new cable connections abroad that are in process now and that we need to have a better basis for decision-making so that we can see what will happen if we do not build that cable to England, but invest the 10 billion. kr., which consumers may then save, in a conversion process, so that we get more heat pumps and get some kind of support system so that we get more electricity into our district heating system. Could it not be beneficial to have such an analysis?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194237	I simply do not agree with the premise that if you build a cable for England, you will save an expense which then means that you will be able to spend the money elsewhere. For the truth is that the cable to England must be able to answer, and that means that we must earn the money back if we are to make that cable, and therefore there is no money just waiting to be spent on something else. On the other hand, I would like to respond to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, as we need to do both, because if we are to have an efficient energy system in the future, we need not only to have better relations with our European neighbours so that we can make better use of the flow, we also need to get the flow into, for example. the heating sector or, for that matter, in the transport sector, as the rapporteur refers to. It is just not an either-or-and-so, and with the cable to England that we are discussing now, it is an investment that has to pay off, so that consumers do not end up having an extra bill for that cable. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194338	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen wants another comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194344	Thank you. I had just forgotten the new system of pressing the button twice. There is the special thing in that it is consumers who will pay for that investment if a new cable is made for England. That is, of course, the dilemma, because it will be paid over the network charges. And if you look at the alternative, it is, of course, that you could make some investments in Denmark that could make us have cheaper district heating if we could keep the current that we are currently exporting at the very least, and put it into our district heating systems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194417	I simply do not think that is true, and it is not to be particularly harsh that I reject it. However, it is true that the funding will be put on the network tariffs, just as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, but then you will also get a customs duty on the difference in the price from England to Denmark, and it will pay more in the same way than the cost you have had. This means that consumers will end up with an increase in tariffs and a reduction in tariffs, and in fact the reduction is greater than the increase. So, according to the business case presented for a cable to England, there is no increase in the network tariff and therefore you will not just be able to spend the money elsewhere. The fact that we should then also invest in flexible and better consumption elsewhere in the energy sector is obvious.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194505	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523194520	Thank you, President. I should like to begin by thanking the Minister for Energy and, of course, also for answering the question. There is no doubt that the effort that has been on green energy and support for green energy for many years in Denmark has given a great deal of growth and jobs within the companies that are dealing with green energy. It has also brought a lot of exports with it, because Denmark has come a long way in this field, and that is definitely positive. What is not so positive is that the effort to replace our production apparatus from being fossil based to being renewable energy has made us have had higher energy prices because of the massive support that has been a condition. Everything else has led to the loss of jobs and exports in many of the manufacturing industries, and this is something that has partly helped to offset the good behavior in the green sector. Whether the swings or carousels have won most or lost most, I do not have to make myself smart, but the fact is that the high Danish energy prices have had an effect on business. Fortunately, since we stood here last May with the last energy policy statement, a number of good news has come in the field of energy. We have had to note that there have been lower prices for wind turbine currents and solar currents, as the Minister also pointed out in his reply. It has been clearly positive that, for example, the supply of Krieger's Flak has given as low prices as it was, and also in the solar sector we have witnessed very falling prices, and it is of course gratifying that renewable energy can be phased in more quickly. At some point we in the Danish People's Party expect renewable energy to be cheapest and can compete with fossil energy without receiving support. It has also been positive that a large number of parties concluded the PSO agreement back in November under the Finance Act. It has long been a wish from the Danish People's Party that the PSP was moved from being a kind of tax on electricity to being on the Finance Act. I simply believe that in the longer term it will help to discipline energy policies, which I myself am a member of, that in future new energy initiatives, for example, will be needed. new wind farms, balanced against all sorts of other public spending, so you have to weigh up what you want. We simply have to make a priority. There has been no tradition of that in the past. There you could just say that the support for this wind farm is just throwing over to the PSO, which then was a tariff that quietly grew upwards without the Danes perhaps discovering it. As the Minister also mentioned in his reply, an agreement was also reached on the framework conditions in the North Sea not long ago. It is an agreement that we in the Danish People's Party are very happy to participate in, because it helps to ensure that there are good framework conditions for the companies that produce oil and gas in the Danish part of the North Sea. This ensures Danish production jobs, and not least Danish security of supply, so that we are less dependent on imports of energy from abroad. So it's definitely positive. Should we look forward a little, autumn or, at least, spring next year, will offer preliminary negotiations on the energy agreement to replace the current energy agreement, which was concluded in 2012. On that occasion, it will be the priority of the Danish People's Party to focus more on energy savings and energy efficiency. We have a belief that if you have to remove CO2 We believe that it is socio-economically best if you can save yourself to CO2 Another thing that we in the Danish People's Party hope to be part of a future agreement is that we make technology-neutral tenders or at least as neutral tenders as is now possible in the circumstances when investing in new renewable energy. There, we believe, is a better result if we allow the various forms of energy to compete with each other. In this way, I expect that we can get better and cheaper energy for the Danes and for the Danish business community. So in those words I must say that we in the Danish People's Party thank you for the statement, and then I should remember to make a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Danish People's Party, and this is how it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that it led energy policy with a focus on the replacement of the production apparatus from fossil to renewable energy have caused Danish citizens and companies huge additional energy costs due to the necessary support for renewable energy. The Folketing urges the government to place greater emphasis on energy saving and efficiency in the future, rather than on the conversion of production, since energy that is not used has a better socio-economic effect than switching to renewable energy. Parliament also calls on the government to work towards a transparent and technology-neutral support structure for renewable energy, so that real competition can be achieved in the area of ensuring the cheapest possible energy for citizens and business. V 115).
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195151	Thank you. The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195202	It is about the PSP and the changes that were agreed upon in connection with it. Does the rapporteur not see a problem in the fact that what we are now seeing in the future is that it is the citizens who are going to pay the entire cost of the conversion to renewable energy, where we have had a system so far where it was all electricity consumers who were going to pay for the conversion? In other words, the half paid by the companies now has the prospect of ordinary citizens paying. The entire bill has been passed on to the citizens through the Finance Act, unless it is the case that the Danish People's Party can push through that there needs to be a special business tax that can contribute to the sustainable transition. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not a problem that the PSO entails an extra cost for ordinary citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195252	The total cost will not be increased, it will just be put somewhere else. And now it is the case that it is not only ordinary citizens who contribute to the state's income; so is business. So the total bill doesn't get any bigger than it should in the longer term be smaller as the PSO bill is phased out. With many of the commitments that have been made, it will be phased out in the longer term, so the bill should be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195319	Now the rapporteur mentioned that he is looking forward to technology-neutral tenders. If we look at the prices we now have, a technology-neutral offer this year or next year will result in land winds winning. Is the rapporteur happy that we will have more wind turbines set up in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195341	Some of the nuances mentioned by the Energy Commission are that other costs must be taken into account, i.e. not only the purely economic cost, but also, for example, the impact on the environment. And it is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party prefer to see wind turbines phased out in favour of offshore wind turbines, which are still a little more expensive than wind turbines, but have a number of advantages, among others. that they do not bother their surroundings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195410	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195414	Thank you. The rapporteur welcomed the recent North Sea agreement and said in this context that it is nice because we can then maintain this independence from other countries in terms of our consumption of petrol and diesel, which I think was what the rapporteur mentioned. However, I would just like to mention that, according to the Energy and Oil Forum, Denmark imported 6.5 million in 2015. m3 petroleum products and exported 6.7 million. m3 petroleum products. We typically import petrol and diesel in particular, and we export crude oil and other petroleum products. So that means that there is no question of independence and that we can shut ourselves down. This is a trade in which we sell something and buy something else, as is the case with apples, pears and bananas, and what else is traded on the world market. So would the rapporteur not agree with me that this is not a question of making ourselves independent in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195518	Now I also said that we could safeguard ourselves against increased dependence on imports. I am fully aware that there are both exports and imports of energy, but the more we produce ourselves, the more we have to trade and the less dependent we are on others. After all, we have before been in a situation where we were totally dependent on imports of energy, and that was then from the Middle East, the Arab states, and that certainly did not end very well, so we must avoid that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195548	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195550	That was so many years ago, and certainly not the situation today. So will the rapporteur not confirm that what we are talking about is that we are extracting something that we can make some money selling like when we grow grain or raise pigs and sell them and that it does not give us any particular independence or dependence on anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195616	Well, energy products are something that you buy, sell and trade with. It is a natural resource that we have and which we use in part ourselves and in part export. But what I particularly welcomed was that there were still good conditions for Danish production and thus Danish jobs in the North Sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195634	We thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then it is the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Thomas Danielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523195643	Thank you for that, President. R 14 is, of course, an energy policy statement and first of all thanks to the Minister for this and for the Minister's reply. After all, the statement reflects a progressive green government that is not just based on the laurels of the agreement reached in 2012, namely the then energy conciliation, but that it is a government that continues the green transition and supports the positive actions that are in this area. This is among other things. in the form of tax relief on electric cars, and we do so in the government even cheaper to refuel its electric car. We also make it more attractive to heat our houses with electricity. We also increase the incorporation requirement for green petrol. We're setting up new test wind turbines. We make a PSP agreement that supports a green transition in the form of increased electricity in all parts of the society that we wish to electrify across Parliament's parties. And we have created Denmark's first export strategy. So there are a large number of positive actions that the current government has taken fortunately in the vast majority of cases, with broad support from the parties of the Danish Parliament, because we are good at making broad agreements. So, on the left side, I should also like to thank the other parties for supporting the government's green transition. In the future, we need to make some major moves. We need to make an energy agreement that will run from 2020 to 2030, and we hope that we can again make broad agreements and continue the good tactics by supporting increased use of VE both in the heat and transport sector and much, much more. I will not continue to list all the positive measures, because the Minister has been very much around them, but on behalf of the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I would like to read out a text of adoption that we are behind, and it says: 'Suggestions for adoption Denmark is a pioneering country in the field of green conversion that creates exports and Danish jobs'. Parliament calls on the government to continue an ambitious green transition that creates jobs and does not cost jobs. The Danish Parliament takes note of the Energy Commission's recommendations for the future energy policy for the period from 2020 with the long-term goal of making Denmark a low-carbon society independent of fossil fuels by 2050, which will meet the target of covering at least half of Denmark's energy needs with renewable energy. The Danish Parliament calls on the Government to use the Energy Commission's recommendations as a contribution to presenting a proposal for a new energy agreement for the period after 2020 in autumn 2017. In energy and climate policy, long-term and stable framework conditions are important. It is crucial to maintain Denmark's green leadership that the Danish Parliament will have an agreement in place in good time before 2020 on how energy policy should look after 2020. V 116). With these words, I thank you for my speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200010	Thank you. And the proposed proposal for adoption is part of the negotiations. It has given rise to a few brief comments, and the first one is from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200020	I am sure that with the stable framework for renewable energy development, it is important that there is confidence in the investment climate and that there is confidence in the rules that, for example, apply. When the solar system was set up, it also applied a few years later. So I would like to hear the rapporteur's reflections on the solar PV bill that has been put forward today, which in such a way operates with initiatives, which are legislation with retroactive effect, where households with a solar PV plant that is greater than 6 kW risk coming under some other schemes than they had expected. It can be a household where you have thrown out oil and invested in a heat pump and a large solar system. Does the rapporteur consider this to be a stable framework for the development of renewable energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200118	It is true that we fear that the solar cells will run out of control over the summer. What I am pleased about and proud of in relation to the agreements we have made with, among other things. The Enhedslisten is that in our agreement in 2012 and in fact also subsequently, but it so subordinate, we planned an extension by 2020 of 918 MW, and it seems that we are achieving our common objectives. In fact, if we do nothing, it seems that we will reach 1,350 MW by 2020, and there are some economic consequences of that, which means, of course, if you are a party which, what should we say, also promises financial responsibility, that we have some obligations in terms of being able to finance the actions we are doing. And it is not certain that the questioner cares so much about that part. However, I am delighted that it seems that we are reaching targets more quickly than expected in the area of solar cells. And then I welcome the fact that we have a common ambition from 2020 to 2030 to jointly create a long-term energy agreement with stable framework conditions, including for solar energy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200246	Yes, it must not be nice to be in a party where there are several ministers who fear that the sun will rise tomorrow, so you will lose revenue to the Treasury. I would like to ask you a number that I have heard several times. The government says they want to see 50 per cent in relation to energy requirements. renewable energy by 2030. And those 50 percent. depends a lot on what it is 50%. off. Is there a calculation of how much you want to reduce your energy consumption by 2030, since you can say 50 per cent.? I'd like to know: 50%. Of what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200321	Well, as chairman of the Danish Parliament's Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, I would like to help the questioner with this in the form of a written reply. I cannot answer the question precisely on a stand-by basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200336	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200340	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur of the Left has regularly praised the policy pursued by the government and refers to it in very positive terms. I can quote here that Mr. Thomas Danielsen has said that the government's energy policy is more ambitious than the previous government's energy policy and that a target that the opposition cannot deliver is the 2030 target of 50%, as Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen has just mentioned, and that has puzzled us a bit. Even the Prime Minister has used phrases such as: to reach 50%. in 2030 is the most ambitious objective anyone has had of a binding nature. That is why we have asked the Resort Minister how ambitious the objective is in relation to the objectives of the previous government, and we have received the answer that if the previous government had followed the line, a VE share of approx. 58 per cent. in 2030. That's 50 percent. more ambitious than 58 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200450	It is true that the present government has made some of the greatest green advances in recent times. It is also true that we have gone far beyond the previous government. It is so that, as we approach a 100-percent target, that goal becomes more and more difficult to achieve. One can, of course, calculate it in several ways, one can continue a curve, and then I think the questioner will agree that it is more difficult to go from 98 to 100 per cent than it is to go from 38 to 40 per cent. So you can make it up in several ways. I do not just have the answer that the questioner has received, but there is no doubt that the longer we reach our ambitious curve, the more difficult it becomes, of course, to climb upwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200541	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200543	I think that sounds like a very theoretical approach. For example: As the Minister also said in his speech, renewable energy is becoming really, really cheap. That in itself would be reason enough for us to expect much more renewable energy, i.e. many more wind turbines and solar cells, if the system were to be adapted accordingly. So I don't think that logic really fits. I still want to hear whether it really is true that the rapporteur and the government regard the 50% that the government has set up for renewable energy by 2030 as an ambitious target, contrary to what everyone else says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200626	My answer has not changed from the author's first question to the questioner asking the same question again. However, this issue of objectives can of course be discussed widely. That's not very theoretical. What we have done is that we have scrapped several of these flying objectives. What do you need them for if you don't show the way there? This is probably the biggest difference between the current government and previous governments: a lot of objectives have been set up that did not even represent the government's own positions at the time. However, what is interesting is to show what is going to be done to achieve ambitious objectives, and not just to set up a target figure to signal that we are obviously very ambitious, as long as we have a high target figure, without referring to the means of achieving it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200723	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523200730	It is the position of Enhedslisten that the Paris Agreement should have an impact on Denmark's energy policy. We must continue to fight to curb world climate change. And Enhedslisten gives priority to the sustainable transition in a broad collaboration with as many players as possible. The government has fought against coastal mills, against the offshore wind turbines, the government has made misleading campaigns claiming that the PSO system was illegal, and every opportunity has been taken to try to slow down the PV expansion. In addition, the foot-to-the-foot Minister of Energy has not solved duties such as the transitional scheme for landwind support, where we have to find a solution by 17 February 2018; there are problems when the basic amount is cancelled for a number of smaller heat companies; there are no solutions for large heat pumps; and we should also be able to make use of the surplus heat available from a number of companies. Then we're still missing this tax and subsidy analysis that comes this summer, and that's enough this year, and that analysis is safe at the moment and collects dust in the Ministry of Finance. We need an energy policy that involves the population, which involves housing associations, landowners' associations, cooperative housing associations, pension funds, visionary banks and cooperatives, energy companies, municipalities, regions, skilled craftsmen and the entire circle of companies that export over 70 billion. kr. energy technology per year. We are also dependent on having utilities that can contribute to sustainable development. It is electricity companies that can ensure security of supply and can control the increased amount of renewable energy towards reaching the 100%. renewable energy. We need district heating companies to invest heavily in geothermal, large heat pumps and solar systems, while at the same time implementing energy savings. We also need waste companies which can ensure as much recycling as possible and environmentally sound incineration of a decreasing amount of residual waste. And we need waste water companies that can become energy producers. Unfortunately, the government has a different focus. One only looks at the reduction of costs, and one will reduce the companies' opportunities for community credit for Community investment in our utilities. The government focuses on several electricity connections abroad, but it is not interested in calculating the benefit of a national effort to ensure that renewable energy is more used in the district heating and transport sectors. We have a system where consumers pay a little extra for the production of renewable energy, after which the government will support the creation of more electricity cables abroad • well to brand paid by the same consumers • so that the power can be exported at a low price. We believe in Enhedslisten that we can get more out of renewable energy if we use it in the district heating system and in the transport sector. I think it is a major problem that the PSO tax is being phased out and that the entire bill of billions is being passed on to the citizens without the business sector contributing. From now on, it will be the population without the contribution of the industry that will pay for the whole conversion. The investment in the PSO scheme had been sufficient and we have been able to look at the schemes approved in Germany. The introduction of taxes on biomass and higher taxes on fossil fuels could be a good way of financing the conversion of district heating. Lack of taxes on biomass prevents geothermal and large heat pumps from being used in district heating. In Enhedslisten we work for solar cells to cover 20%. of electricity consumption. It's possible. And we need to find the best solutions so that solar cells are on the rooftops to a greater extent, for example. on municipal buildings, without having to create an energy company for each building, housing associations, sports halls and other places where facilities can be owned by the community. 20% solar power is not achieved with the government's so-called technology-neutral supply, but it is good to test out supply where solar cells on roofs can compete with solar cells on the ground. It is as if the Minister of Finance thinks he is a sun king and can prevent the sun from rising tomorrow. We must have an energy policy that takes advantage of the opportunities for renewable energy development and we must not have the government's foot-to-mouth policy, in which everything that gives less tax revenue is combated. Developments are moving fast, and if new solutions and technology can be supported for a period of time, this development can go even faster. It is therefore disastrous that EUDP funds have been cut to 190 million. kr. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member Those funds need to be substantially increased. If you were to take an example, we have seen large solar panels in Denmark with storage, where you started up with a huge installation in Marstal with EU subsidies. Then a plant was built up at Brønderslev with EUDP funds, and then it had been developed so much that the next plant down at Vojens could be set up without a public grant. Now there has been an even larger facility in Silkeborg, even without subsidies. However, this is something that has been lifted by the fact that there were EU funding and that there were EUDP funds that could help to develop that production. Skifer gas is not part of the future energy supply in Denmark. We need the last report to conclude that shale gas should remain underground. That is, of course, part of the statement we have received today, and it is true that we lack that report and that we lack the final conclusion. It is often the case that energy savings are forgotten, and we should not do so. For the percentages outlined in the government's basis that we have to reach 50%. renewable energy by 2030, depends on what they 50%. is off. The task will be much easier if we are skilled at reducing our energy consumption, and we must bet on that wherever possible. We are facing an electrification of society, where electricity is becoming more widespread and where we need to change our attitude to what it is good to use electricity for. We need to phase out the fossil fuels. I think it's funny to see that there are some expenses that are allowed to run out there. This cost of upgrading biogas has been greatly increasing. In 2016, it was 400 million. kr. that was spent on it. In 2017, it is 777 million. kr. Now we can look forward to it being expected by 2020 to be 956 million. kr. No initiative has been taken to deal with this. But when you imagine that a little more solar cells might come up, then the government is doing something at the moment that could be some kind of preventive legislation to sleep quietly over the summer so that there will be no extra solar cells. I do not think this is the right priority. I think that we need to look at all the costs involved in the energy conciliation and how things develop. Finally, I would like to say that the Enhedslisten is ready for negotiations on the next energy reconciliation, and I would also like to say at the same time that we are very pleased that the entire opposition has begun to formulate concrete policies together. The first round was the joint chronicle with ten recent proposals. The next thing has been to formulate today the dissatisfaction we have with the fact that the bound tasks that we see are not being solved by the government. We look forward to further cooperation in the red-green block, and we also look forward to the debate that will take place with the government on the next energy settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201555	Thank you. It gave rise to one brief remark from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201559	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, on which I understand that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen agrees with the Energy Commission's recommendations on e.g. to use more electricity in the transport sector. But sir... Søren Egge Rasmussen may not also be able to update if nothing else, so at least I and the others in this Chamber today about what Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's assessment is of the Energy Commission's other recommendations that e.g. the development of renewable energy needs to take place at market conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201638	In my speech, I did not comment on the Energy Commission's recommendations, but I note that the Energy Commission recommends that the next energy conciliation be started as soon as possible and that, as a matter of fact, a little is being done away with its mandate. It is asked whether it is the market that will run everything. I disagree. Because if you look at what kind of energy mix that researchers recommend we have on, for example. The electricity side, you don't recommend that we get 100 percent. wind energy. It is recommended that if we have the system we imagine with a little biomass, then it might be clever that we have 80%. electricity from wind turbines and 20 per cent. from solar cells. Therefore, we need to have some tenders that ensure that solar cells are set up. It may as well be in an invitation to tender. I can imagine that you are holding a tender where you say that we are now offering 20 MW, and then you can make a competition about whether they should be on municipal buildings or whether they should be on some thin sandy soils out in West Jutland. I can see that. But the fact that we have to keep supply completely free between all technologies does not make sense to me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201745	So I have to understand the comment and the answer to my question to Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen such that technology neutrality is not something that Enhedslisten wants forward-looking, which we among other things. Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party actually wanted earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201808	Well, I can imagine the benefits of it. It could, for example, be done. prevent more biogas from coming, for then winds and solar cells would always beat biogas. So I'm kind of open to dialogue about it. However, I insist that if we are to achieve specific technologies, then we have to steer along those lines. But, of course, you can also keep an offer where you give a special subsidy to those plants that do not produce at night, such as solar cells.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201839	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we will leave room for Mrs Ida Auken, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523201847	Thank you very much, and thank you to the Minister for the statement. This is the way to do it, and I am just going to have to take a little down here that energy policy in Denmark is, of course, very closely linked to some very, very important issues for our society. Our entire economy and all our growth depend on access to energy. The climate agenda and the energy agenda in Denmark have been linked for very, very many years, and we have, I think, helped to lead the rest of the world to thinking climate and energy together in new ways. It is important for job creation in Denmark, and it is of course very important for security of supply that we talk about energy and climate. Actually, I'd like to start somewhere else. I'd like to start with the place we are today. Where we are today, it is actually the case that the sun and wind have broken the neck of coal. I think they will also do so on natural gas, and I really think it is a very, very important and good development that has been and that has brought us to this place now that sun and wind have outperformed something like coal. If we had been told some of us who had such a real climate depression back in around the year 2000, when we were just thinking that the problem was huge and the solutions were not very likely, that there would come this time when the renewables had broken the neck of fossil fuels, then at least I would have slept better at night in the many years when I suffered from something that might remind me of a climate depression. But that is actually where we are today, and it also means that it is important that we see the opportunities created by the market in order to choose the right green transition. When we come to negotiate a new energy agreement, it is important for the Radical Left that we make use of those places where the market can deliver as best and cheaply as possible renewable energy, but there will also be places where Denmark will have to keep pushing forward to show that it is possible to convert an entire system. That is why we would like to see the Radical Left, when it comes to making a new energy agreement, actually set itself the goal that both our electricity sector and our heating sector should be 100%. renewable energy already in 2030. We believe that Denmark can deliver that. We believe that we can show the rest of the world how to do a system integration, and I think that it can be important for Danish companies that they will be at the forefront of this race and we will think about new things. We are at a time in the history of the world, when, after the Paris climate summit, we have seen all the countries of the world change tracks not just shift gears, but shift tracks towards a green economy. That is why, of course, this is not the time to slow down, and although we have seen a government that has fallen a little over the hand brake once in a while, I do believe, on the contrary, that it is time to go even further both for our business community, but not least for the sake of our children and for the sake of the climate. So we'd like to see a target of 100 percent. renewable energy by 2030. We agree with the Energy Commission that more of the green power we produce needs to be used. That means, of course, that it must be included in, among other things. the heating sector, and it must enter the transport sector. We would like to see investment in climate and energy research and development increased. We agree with Enhedslisten that there should be a sustained focus on energy savings at the same time as this. And so it's absolutely crucial that we can make this green transformation of Denmark that we continue to develop relations with our neighbouring countries. It's England, it's Holland, it's Poland. That is what enables us to keep a reasonable price level; that is what enables us to compete; and that is also what must ultimately make renewable energy technologies actually manage on market conditions. At the moment, it is almost impossible to increase capacity because electricity prices are simply too low in relation to the cost of building new capacity, which is why we must, of course, continue to support, among other things. sun and wind until we're the place where we've got markets made that can actually lift this up themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202326	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202329	I have two things. First of all, I am very pleased that Mrs Ida Auken has recovered from her climate depression. I'm really glad. Then I would also like to know whether Mrs Ida Auken does not agree with Mr Auken. Jens Joel in that the future supply of renewable energy must be technologically neutral.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202354	Thank you for your concern. Depression rarely gets anything good out of it. That doesn't mean that the problem is gone or that you don't have to worry about it, but to be depressed about it, I don't think anything good will come of it. So thank you for that. I would say that when we get to the place where we can actually get convincing evidence that this can be made technology neutral, we can see it, but then we have to remember to take other things into account, that is, what else we set out rules on planning and other things. It can be said by comparison between sun and wind that sun produces for a very short time; if one installs 1 MW of sun, it actually produces four times as little as 1 MW of wind. Then we must ensure that these are actually all things we bring in, and I do not really think the Liberal Alliance disagrees with that, so that in order to have fair competition there are many aspects that need to be considered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202440	Then we would like to thank the radical rapporteur. We jump back to the rapporteur's line for Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202504	Thank you very much for the floor and thank you very much to the Minister for the energy policy statement. It's long and detailed, and it's actually going to be a good time since I've read it. As far as I remember, it is dated 3 May, but such a detailed document is, of course, a very long time in the ministry, and that is why there is probably no real expression of the enthusiasm that could otherwise have been expressed on the Energy Commission's report on the energy policy of the future in the statement. Fortunately, however, the Minister's speech was enthusiastic just now. Because in addition to the agreement on the abolition of the PSO, which has always been a very prominent LA brand case, the Energy Commission's report for me is to see the most important event on the energy policy scene in the past year. My predecessor as energy rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, Mr. Villum Christensen, said last year in connection with the 2016 review debate: We need more market, more research and development in return for less planned economy. That is the direction we must take in the future, and that is the only way we can get cheaper solutions. We are not going to be in here, and there he means by the Danish Parliament to pinpoint what is right and what is wrong, we must let the technologies compete against each other. In fact, I think this is a very good summation of the Energy Commission's recommendations, and I look forward to being able, in future discussions on future energy policy, to look up repeatedly in the Commission's report on directions. As I said, it has been a significant priority for the Liberal Alliance ever since its introduction to have the PSO abolished again, and therefore it is also fantastic that it has been successful in the past year. The next must be the introduction of technology-neutral tenders, which must completely eliminate the cost of guaranteeing electricity production. Instead, perhaps a CO 2 2 2 2 2 can be introduced. Finally, research into energy technologies must also be guaranteed free and equal conditions. Unfortunately, all of this is not mentioned in the statement because it is currently there. technology neutrality does not exist in our energy supply. Instead, there is a very fine presentation of the developments in the incalculable number of existing and highly complex technological aid schemes, many of which, especially in the field of solar energy, have gone very wrong and have called for urgent action to prevent draining the treasury. This is an extremely unfortunate way of conducting energy policy and is primarily due to the planned economic energy agreement of 2012. In the coming months, the Liberal Alliance will work intensively to secure a market-based energy agreement for 2020 and beyond. Finally, I would just like to say that I find it very satisfactory that the government has set in motion an export strategy for energy technology, but that, for example, there is one thing that needs to be done. with regard to the efficiency of the supply sector, energy labelling and energy savings efforts, significant adjustments are also still needed. With these comments, I would like to thank you again for your statement, and I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the text of the adoption which was read out earlier by the rapporteur of the Left, and I would also like to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the text of the resolution tabled by the Left. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202945	Thank you, and it gave rise to a number of brief remarks. The first one's from sir. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523202954	Thank you. Now, like the rapporteur on the platform, I would just like to ask about this with technology neutrality and with the recommendations of the Energy Commission, because it has been pointed out several times that the Energy Commission believes that support for renewable energy technologies can be removed, but that is not what it says. It says that support for renewable energy needs to be phased out as technologies can cope with market conditions. Is this also how the rapporteur understands this, and so it is not about the fact that we can remove the aid right now, but that we are, of course, slowly phasing out the aid and that it can be zero on the day it is under market conditions? That was one question. The other thing is this balance thing. If one imagines theoretically making technology-neutral tenders, will one not end up with only one technology winning and then one cannot achieve the balance in the renewable energy system that we are building that will be necessary for it to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203056	Thank you. To conclude, I cannot predict the development of the market, and I do not think anyone in here can, and that is why we need to have the technology-neutral supply. And then I would say that I do not imagine, as the questioner said, a quiet and calm transition. I imagine, or at least have a hope, that the transition can take place quickly, perhaps in leaps. One might hope that disruption could also take place in the field of energy. But I fully acknowledge, as the questioner has said, that there will probably be a need for some transitional arrangements in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203139	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203142	Thank you. Then we have approached each other in understanding. I'm really glad. This is about making things technology-neutral, for example. When it comes to tendering, one technology will typically become stronger and stronger, because once it has won, it will be easier to win the second time and the third time and the tenth time, and also in this way, like the pressure of the others. That is why we grant subsidies in various ways and impose taxes and regulate offers, so that we get what we want in a system that is deeply dependent on both solar energy when the sun shines and wind energy when the wind blows, and on the fact that we can store and we can pull energy from the underground in the form of deep geothermal or just geothermal. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that we have to keep looking at what technologies we need and in what balance, and then adapt our system to it, and that we cannot let the economy decide that alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203251	I would like to make it clear that in the present situation, and this is also the premise of the whole questioner's comment, it is such that we need a certain technological mix. I agree with the questioner. The questioner's premise is not based on the fact that it may be that I myself or someone else at home in the garage is wobbling with the development of some new energy technologies, which could perhaps lead to some of the leaps that I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203328	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203331	I would like to hear from the rapporteur how he looks at whether any thorium research can be afforded with the limited EUDP funds and whether the rapporteur has noted that that technology is not mentioned in the Energy Commission's report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203355	Yes, the last thing I have noted, insofar as I indicated in my rapporteur's speech that what concerns me is that there are free and equal conditions for all research, and that in advance we reject neither research into one or the other, and it does not matter what technology is involved. What I am trying to advocate with that and with my speech is also technology neutrality when we talk about research into energy technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203425	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203427	I want to go to another subject. I understand that the rapporteur is enthusiastic about technology-neutral tenders and such things. I would like to ask the rapporteur to reflect on whether there can be no social demands, such as: that society wants electricity to be available around the clock and that you can have some heat needs, such as. that there is hot water all year round and that these things can, in such a way, mean that there are special security requirements when it comes to organising the supply, so that it is not just a question of who can make it cheapest, and then we have something that we cannot use.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203505	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203507	Security of supply is certainly very, very important. As Mrs Ida Auken, who unfortunately is not here anymore, also said, it is, it can be said, the whole basis for growth and development in society. Perhaps I would like to reflect instead on some other conditions and some other conditions, among others. I would like to point out to the honourable Member that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203548	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203552	Thank you. In his speech, the rapporteur said that we should have technology neutrality, because then we could have a fight with guarantee prices. In the first place, I would like to have the rapporteur admit that the two things actually have nothing to do with each other. We can already see today that we have gone away from guarantee prices. The schemes that have created problems are systems where we have said that we get this to deliver, and then, because technology has evolved, it has turned out that it was too high a price; then there has been too much fucking on it. But we are already in all sorts of areas of sun, sea wind and probably soon also on land wind, even though they are technology-specific in a situation where you can easily do away with guarantee prices and take the cheapest offer and thus let the market determine competition. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203647	That is absolutely correct. Perhaps in my rapporteur's speech I forgot to breathe at a point in time, and perhaps that is why it came to appear as a context, because that is what I can quite agree with the questioner that there is not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203701	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203703	Okay, because there we are in complete agreement, that is to say, it would be foolish not to let people compete to give the cheapest price no matter what. Where it is then a little bit more spawned is, of course, as far as technology neutrality is concerned, which we would like to see if it can be done in practice. Now the rapporteur himself said that there are some places where citizens have great opposition to land winds. How are you going to pay for that resistance if it's going to be compared to sea winds? I mean, how much more expensive must sea wind be, so it goes without saying that no one should have wind turbines as neighbours? Does the rapporteur not agree that technology neutrality is a good idea on paper, but that we are a bit from being able to quantify some of the other consequences? And if the rapporteur can respond to that, I would like to know whether he wants to abolish biogas or whether technology neutrality should not be taken so literally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203750	Well, technology neutrality has to be taken literally, but as I also said to Mr. Christian Poll, when he asked about it a moment ago, there will probably be a need for some transitional arrangements.I fully acknowledge that because we are not at present a place where the energy mix does not somehow influence the supply we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203817	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next is Mr. Christian Poll, rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523203826	The Minister's statement says, and I quote: • With the Paris Agreement and the United Nations' 17 World Goals from 2015, the world has for the first time been given a global framework for green conversion. It will launch massive investments all over the world and create a great demand for precisely the technologies, solutions and services that the Danish energy industry is the world leader in delivering and exporting. I agree, but that doesn't happen by itself. If we are to limit global warming to a minimum of 1.5 degrees, then we really need to increase our ambitions and goals throughout the world, including in the European Union and in Denmark. It is therefore absolutely crucial if we are to put a stop to the climate crisis before it has fatal consequences that the Danish Government is working hard to set targets at home and abroad that enable us to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. We have only four years left before the Paris Agreement's objectives can be impossible to achieve. According to a new analysis from Carbon Brief, there is 66 per cent risk that the atmosphere of the planet will contain such large amounts of greenhouse gases in 4 years' time that it will no longer be possible to keep the global temperature rise down to a level that is 1.5 degrees warmer than the level before the industrial revolution. So we're really, really busy. The global level of ambition must be increased significantly and very quickly. If you add up all the current climate plans, by 2100 the temperature will have increased by between 3 and 3.5 degrees. And all climate research indicates that countries need to do much more if we are to achieve the 2-degree target at all. So I fully agree with the Minister that Denmark can really benefit from the fact that the whole world must now switch to renewable energy. But, as I said, this is not happening on its own. That is why we need to use the opportunities we have to push for higher ambitions. And that is why I was very pleased when I saw a new report from a number of members of the Committee on the Environment and Energy in the European Parliament calling on the European Union to turn up the EU's climate and energy targets to better match the Paris climate targets. The report calls on the EU to reduce CO2 In the first place, it will require us to significantly increase the 2030 target, which currently stands at 40% reduction, and to switch to 100%. renewable energy and full energy efficiency by 2050, which means that renewable energy and energy efficiency targets are raised to a minimum of 45% respectively; 40% and 40%. in 2030. I think that's really, really exciting. That report is the first real attempt to translate the Paris Agreement into EU policy. It should inspire EU decision-makers to scale up the objectives of EU energy and climate legislation. I hope that the Minister agrees with the problem of the current level of ambition of the European Union, which these Members of the European Parliament address in the report, and I would like to hear the Minister's comment on that. After all, on the home front, we sent the Minister a letter yesterday on three things that concern us because it is urgent. It is support for farmers, it is the basic amount of decentralised cogeneration, and then it is the problem of surplus heat. I understand from the Minister's statement that the Minister also sees these problems as important and will present proposals before the summer break. I look forward to reading and dealing with that. The Minister in his speech highlights the work of the Energy Commission. There are, of course, many good proposals in the Commission's report, but one of the things that is highlighted is that support for renewable energy can be removed. And I would just like to make it clear, as today's debate has done on several occasions, that what the Commission is writing is that aid can be phased out as the technology at issue can be set up on market terms. And I actually think we all agree with that. It is obvious that technologies should not be supported when they are able to cope with pure market conditions. Increased electrification is also shared by all of us, and it is one of the most important elements of the transition to a renewable energy system, but how we get there is absolutely central now and in future negotiations. Then there is the issue of technology-neutral tenders, which, on the other hand, are really difficult, because it is purely theoretical in energy policy to talk about something similar. Almost all technologies are supported or taxed, and the energy system we are building now is highly dependent on a balance between a number of different technologies that can be different from the system and in relation to each other. In conclusion, I look forward very much to participating in the forthcoming energy negotiations, which I understand the Minister will be inviting to shortly. As rapporteur for the Alternative, I would like to do my best to have an energy agreement which not only ensures that we live up to the Paris Agreement but which becomes so smart and ambitious that we can all be proud of it and can lift up Denmark's role again as the country leading the transition to renewable energy in all sectors on time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523204350	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523204412	Since our rapporteur could not be here, you must settle for me. I hope that things will work out, but of course we just have to ask questions anyway. From the SF we think that this statement is very backwards. There are virtually no concrete initiatives, and that is probably because the government cannot even pull itself together to solve the urgent tasks that already lie: the landwind and sun regime after February 2018, surplus heat, heat pumps at the small plants. The last part is the government, so maybe it's about to solve now. There is something about the supply strategy, but we would like to hear how the Minister wants to ensure that it focuses precisely on climate, because that is not exactly what is most prominent in the papers presented by the government. In fact, the focus is solely on short-term cost minimisation and on repeated objectives, 50%. VE in 2030, and we have never had an explanation of why exactly that should be ambitious. For us, it is not. Our proposal, which we are five parties behind, green parties, is more concrete, and the Minister has also said that if that is our demand, it will be an easy debate. There is reason to rejoice at that, a reverse sinner, can one say, and does this mean that the government can join our proposal? Well, that's interesting. In relation to the economy mentioned in the chronicle that we are a number of parties that have written together, as a result of the expiry of the aid to Anholt Havvindmøllepark, 2 billion will be released. kr. Every year from 2023 to 2025, and in addition, there are unspent PSO funds for land winds. With the Danish Energy Agency's electricity price forecast, it can clearly cover full RES on the power side, as we propose. There needs to be a solution that involves a revenue-neutral shift in taxes and taxes. Now I am the tax rapporteur, so I feel a little more at home, but at the same time it must also promote the green transition. That is the main task we have. We in the SF agree with our colleagues in the Social Democrats, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, namely that there are some very important tasks to be done, and we are very concerned that it is not going any faster, that there is a blind spot, so to speak, in the government's climate and energy policy. We haven't gotten that much smarter today either. The Minister says that every time questions have been raised about the tasks ahead, we have to look at that, we will look at that later, now we have to see. It is quite worrying, especially from a government that does not even openly say that it simply does not want to give priority to this area. We hear the government say over and over again that it is important for the government, it creates jobs, it creates jobs and green growth, and yet it stands still. We in the SF are very concerned about this, and if the Minister thinks it is easy to make an agreement, we are happy about it, and we will, of course, show up, rather yesterday than tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523204804	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions, and then we move on to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523204812	Thank you, President, and also thank the rapporteurs for a great many good speeches. This evening, when the government has almost been sitting for almost two years and I have had the task of Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteurs and the Energy Committee for their excellent cooperation. Well, there are challenges, but fortunately, the solutions are largely always successful. I would like to thank you for that and I think we have good cooperation where we recognise each other. There are, of course, differences in a number of areas, but it is nevertheless possible to maintain an ambitious climate and energy policy. I myself experience this when, as Minister of Energy, I am travelling and representing Denmark. There is very, very much respect for Denmark in the area of energy and climate, even when I look at the long series of international studies that are coming. After all, the opposition wants to make it as if we've virtually ended up in a big black hole. I even think that Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party spoke of a black self-target. However, in March, the World Economic Forum issued a report in which countries were ranked according to how they manage in the green transition and in relation to their energy sector, and it showed that Denmark has gone from an eighth place in 2013 to a fourth place in 2017. Never have we ever been higher on that report. Then there is the World Bank, which also made a report in February here in 2017, and it even says that Denmark is number 1 in the world when it comes to investment conditions and access to energy efficiency and renewable energy. I just have to say that it is really nice and, of course, I welcome that as Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. I am pleased to hear that several of the rapporteurs today refer to growth and jobs. Sir. Jens Joel mentioned it and other rapporteurs too, and that is something that matters in Denmark. We are nearly 60 000 people employed in this area, and we have an export which, when you take the service sector and advice with you, is more than 80 billion. kr. I think we're really, really good with this, and when mr. Jens Joel refers to it as a black self-target, I would now like to say that when you look at our climate and energy policy together, the green spot is what we are talking about in a number of areas. I can also look down over the appointments we've made. We have made a PRS agreement which is very, very broad. I would like to thank you for that. We have also reached an agreement on the North Sea and an energy-saving agreement which is also broadly based with the parties and which a broad majority in Parliament supports. We have had an invitation to tender at Krieger's Flak, which at that time was the world's lowest per year. kilowatt-hour, and it is a 600 MW wind farm that can supply between 500,000 and 600,000 households with electricity per year. I just have to say there's a lot to be proud of. We have also had an export strategy presented and it shows that there are very, very great potentials in terms of energy exports and creating new Danish jobs. The assessment is, of course, that up to 2030 there will be an opportunity to double the Danish export of energy equipment. I think that really counts for the positive side too, and it shows something about the energy and climate policy that we are pursuing here in the Folketing is also a very good business policy. This morning, by the way, I could see that a letter had arrived. And when I get letters from a number of the rapporteurs in the Folketing, all the so-called red rapporteurs plus the Radical Left, it is clear that then you sit down and read it. It contained something that several of the rapporteurs have referred to as duties, and as another schoolboy I have therefore been given tasks for by a number of parties in the Folketing. When I looked at it, I was delighted that I'm actually doing those things. It is always nice when you are in the process of getting them sorted out in a sensible way. With regard to winds, I have a clear view that we will be submitting a proposal in the near future. And in relation to the end of the basic amount and the challenges associated with it, we already had a discussion on it this morning. So at the same time as I got this letter, I actually got started looking at this, and now I was long before I got it. Then there is the surplus heat and the electric heating tax, and that was also something we discussed this morning. So I would say to the dear opposition, including a number of the conciliation parties, that I believe that we will find solutions in these areas too. I also have a feeling, which I think I share with a broad Parliament, that we are standing at a time in the history of Denmark when there are quite important choices to be made on how to achieve the long-term objectives. It is both the government's ambitious objective that at least 50%. the total energy consumption is based on renewable energy by 2030 and the goal of being completely independent by 2050. There are also the obligations we have to achieve what we have agreed in the European Union and the Paris climate agreement. So there are quite a lot of tasks to be done in the coming years too. We need to look at an energy agreement and not just look at it. It is my ambition during the autumn to put forward a proposal on behalf of the government, and I hope and believe that we will succeed in getting a broad majority in the Folketing to support the important journey we are going to make there. It's a good Danish tradition, and I'll do everything I can to continue. There are also other major challenges, such as: the EU's Energy Union as a whole. It's a big job. And what is to happen with regard to the conduct of cables to the surrounding world? Are we going to look at the possibility of leading a cable to Britain, and what else is needed in this area? Large, large decisions must also be taken. This also applies to achieving the EU's targets in 2030 for reductions in CO2 There will be the government in autumn with a vision for it, a climate plan that I also hope we can agree on here in the Folketing. Some people have spoken of depression today; I have no depression. However, I would just like to say that this whole energy policy is characterised by green optimism, and that is also the approach that I will take to the negotiations in the autumn when we are going to start looking at a future energy agreement. And I hope and believe that a broad majority in the Folketing agrees with me that it is right, very good, that there are broad agreements in this area and that it is green ambitions that have been borne by good and green common sense, but that there is also an economy that we must, of course, deal with, so that we ensure a stable policy in this area until 2030. The government and government parties are in the working clothes, and I hope the rest of Parliament is. Thank you for many good comments and thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205617	And it's not quite over yet. There are four questions for the moment, and the first is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205625	Thank you. There have been quite a few questions, particularly from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on technology neutrality. That's why we from the SF are a little nervous about what the government and what the minister can do here. Does the Minister believe that technology neutrality in the version the government would like will necessarily always promote the best both implementation and location in the existing system, i.e. energy matched with the other energies? And can we not imagine that we are also facing financial problems in relation to what is best to support at a given time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205724	Thank you for the question. I'm not afraid of competition. Technology neutrality, if it stays where we end up, will ensure good, healthy competition between the different types of energy, and I actually see in the energy sector that competition is also what brings down the price. When we have last got a low price on offshore winds, it is a consequence of the fact that there has been a good competition on offshore winds, and I actually want a good competition across technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205752	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205755	But would the Minister not agree that if we had had this starting point from the beginning, we would not have had cheap ocean winds, we would not have had cheap solar power, then we would not have had cheap renewable technologies? They have come because political decisions have been taken. It has been supported until market maturity, and we now see in these years that it has become so competitive. Can there not be an idea in saying that if we are to have the optimal mix in the future, then there can be new exciting technologies that need to be supported for a period of time to get the most optimal energy mix?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205836	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205837	Yes, there may be a need to support new technologies. But we have also come to a time when we have supported green and renewable energy for very, very many years. And now is also the time for the big technologies to stand on their own feet, and there may be fair competition between the different technologies, which will ensure, when we have to achieve the targets we have set for the future, both towards 2030 and 2050, that both companies and consumers are also able to pay the bill for the green transition. And then it is also crucial that we think about the economy and have good competition between technologies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205912	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523205916	Thank you. Thank you to the Minister for the speeches here. I agree that basically things are going very well and that Denmark is in a good position, but I also think that the Minister should be careful not to neglect what has happened. It almost seems that it is we who have completely misunderstood it. Well, I am aware of the only country that came to Paris for the major climate summit with a lower target than we had the previous year. Nor have I heard of others who halved the EUDP funds, that is, the energy research funds, the first year. We have made an energy-saving agreement that has reduced the target. We have really celebrated that Kriegers Flak was the cheapest offshore wind farm that was the coastal mills in parentheses noticed too, but the government would then cancel because they were ugly. I think one owes a little humility to the fact that the fact that we have a strong position in Denmark does not make it a matter of course that in a few years' time we will also have a strong position. That is why we have urged the government to maintain those positions of strength by actually thinking forward and keeping the level of ambition. That is what I referred to, i.e. that green realism had actually become a black self-target, because I think we risk losing some of the positions of strength. After all, one cannot feel that energy research has been cut in the first year or the next year. After all, it is only in five or six years' time that we will be hit by massive cuts in jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210044	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210045	I do not quite recognize the picture that the questioner is giving here. In relation to the energy agreement back from 2012, we expected some results from the forward-looking energy policy towards 2020. And I can just say that on the crucial parameters, among others. the share of renewable energy, we are higher than we expected in 2012. When we look at CO2 I just have to say that no matter where I look in the world, there is great respect for Denmark. Also in relation to the long series of studies on the Danish climate and energy policy, Denmark has nothing to be ashamed of. On the contrary, Jens Joel, together we should be really proud of Denmark and what we have achieved in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210128	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210129	We're really proud of where we stand. But there is no broad support for and enthusiasm for the fact that one has halved energy research, the first year one was in power. There is no such thing, even in the business world. The minister says that I drew the wrong picture, but there were no factual errors in what I liked to list up, so one has been amused by the fact that we say that there are a number of duties. One of the things announced by the Minister eight months ago in the press, he would convene a meeting on this, and I quote that the rest of us could also take responsibility for resolving the problem. It's taken eight months to get that meeting. But we don't get papers in advance. So it is no wonder that when we sent a letter yesterday we did not know what was going to be discussed this morning. Moreover, there is still no discussion about excess heat and there is still no wind. We are just saying in all modesty that we have some tasks to do, and it is of course no help that the Minister is being a little insulted by it. We've also said it internally. We're actually just trying to raise this agenda to the place where it actually ought to be. I think we have a common task in that. But that requires the Minister to be able to recognise when there is criticism of something that can actually be criticised, and then, on the other hand, you can stick to the places where things are going well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210257	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210257-2	Thank you for the question. I just want to say that I am not offended by children in any way possible. In fact, I have chosen the approach to my work as a minister to listen to the opposition as well, and I do so in all these contexts. That is also the reason why we had a discussion this morning on a number of these issues, both on electric heating tax and on excess heat, also in relation to the electric heating tax. I have also promised, and I am working hard to ensure that we find a solution in relation to land winds. I agree that there is a challenge there that we need to resolve by February 2018 when the current support model expires. And I have an ambition in the coming months to present a proposal for discussion among the conciliation parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210340	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210345	Thank you for that and thank you for the Minister's statement. I am also among those who are very proud of Denmark's climate action, environmental efforts and our energy system, and I go out and tell about it far and wide where I can get to it. What is interesting, and what we are talking about today, is whether the efforts that have been made now by the current government are those who batt, so that we continue to drive at high speed and are at the forefront of the world. And that's actually not my impression. The previous questioners have already mentioned some examples. I can also mention that we are not going to have a reduction target for 2030, and I think that is a really strange situation. Firstly, it has been promised, and secondly, we have the Paris Agreement, which sets such an overall framework that it should say: that is how far we will reach by 2020, by 2030 and by 2040 to be in target by 2050. The target we've got is 50 percent. renewable energy by 2030. We've been wondering. We have been told that this corresponds to bending a curve a little off, so it is actually less ambitious than if you continue the curve. We have also asked the Minister and received an answer where we can confirm that this is actually a lower level of ambition. That fg. President-in-Office of the Council.). So what's it gonna take for us... that fg. President-in-Office of the Council)... can see that there is ambitious energy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210507	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210510	Thank you, sir. Christian Poll for the question. The ambition of at least 50%. renewable energy by 2030 of total energy consumption is a very, very ambitious target. I do not think that many countries in the world share the same level of ambition. In relation to 2030 and the objectives there it is that there is currently a division between the countries within the European Union, and this will come up at the next Energy Council here in June. When that distribution is available, when there is an agreement in the EU on how the tasks are to be shared among the countries, in the autumn the government will come up with a catalogue of ideas and ideas on how we can do more in the climate area with a number of actions in the areas of the non-quota area where Denmark will have a task to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210603	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210605	I just wanted to say that the target is 50 percent. renewable energy by 2030, which the government has set itself, is not ambitious, nor in view of the fact that technologies are now becoming so cheap. We have heard of this several times in today's debate; it is almost something that is going to give itself, because it is now becoming so cheap to set up renewable energy and, at least, it will be for several of the technologies. But I would like to hear from the Minister what the Minister sees as a possible ambitious energy settlement. What elements does it have? And are not these MEPs, whom I mentioned in my speech, with their new report from the European Parliament, right in saying that the European Union must also tighten up the objectives of the European Union and thus ours?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210646-2	Thank you for the question. Now the European Union must first start to solve this task across countries, and it is a great task that lies ahead there. The European Union is the area in the world which, relatively speaking, has taken on the greatest commitment in terms of reducing emissions, and there is a very, very large task to deal with them. In terms of reaching the 50-pct. target by 2030, I can just say that it is not just snapping your fingers and saying that we will achieve that goal. Massive investment is needed. We don't do anything when we're 40%. It takes a great deal to reach the last 10%, which is figuratively equivalent to the construction of an offshore wind farm the size of Krieger's Flak every year in the period from 2020 until 2030. I don't think we're gonna choose to do that, but we're gonna go some of that way. Achieving the 2030 target will require quite a lot of investment and quite a lot of effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210745	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210747	I would like to follow up on this, because it cannot be ruled out that there can be ambitious measures to achieve 50 per cent. renewable energy by 2030. But that will mean that we will have to have massive energy savings. But we don't know if the government will. We've just got a figure called 50 percent. renewable energy by 2030. If the Minister could not come forward with what total figure we should calculate the 50 per cent. off? Is it on the basis of current energy consumption, or is it on the basis of calculations that one has been so skilled in energy saving that it is a much lower energy consumption than what we have in today's Denmark? I think it might be interesting to get that. Otherwise, it's just like something that flies in the government base. And if we are going to negotiate on the next energy reconciliation, it would be nice to have a little more substance about what is behind that calculation. Or is it just a number you've come up with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210849-2	Thank you for the question. It's not a number we've come up with. If you go in and read the government base, you can actually see quite clearly what that number is. It says it's 50 percent. of the energy demand in 2030. I also have to say that I have a clear expectation that we have an ever-decreasing need for energy. The energy savings effort we have made over the past 40 years has led to an unchanged consumption of energy, despite the fact that in the same period there has been a growth in GDP of almost 90%. We need to continue this line. We must ensure that we continue to feel that we are, of course, increasing our prosperity, getting more and more growth in society, but also doing so in a way that reduces energy consumption. Denmark has been able to do so for many years, and we must continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210937	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523210939	That topic is probably best suited to a written follow-up question so that we can find out what that number is. I would like to return to the price developments we have seen recently, where the Minister highlights Krieger's Flak and the low bid, but it was without the network connection. So we are in a situation where the supply at the coastal mills was, in social terms, cheaper. And we are faced with a situation where farm mills are still significantly cheaper than sea turbines and coastal mills. I would like to hear from the Minister: is it not true that with current technologies, land wind is what requires the least support?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211014	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211016	Thank you for the question. That is immediately true. But we are looking at sea winds a very, very strong price reduction. When we completed the project with Anholt Havmøllepark, the price was on the other side of DKK 1. per kilowatt-hour. Then there was Horns Rev 3. There we were down to 77 cents. And most recently we've seen with the offer at Krieger's Flak: 37.2 cents. So we can very much say that the price has fallen, and we have also seen that DONG Energy has offered two German offshore wind farms where the grant is 0 DKK. per kilowatt-hour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211051	Then we thank the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Monday 29 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211127	The debate is open. And the first to speak here is the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211141	Thank you. I thank the Enhedslisten for the proposal. First of all, I would like to make it clear that this is not a proposal that the government can support. At the same time, however, I would like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten with the proposal touches on an important point which has the attention of the government. The Enhedslisten proposes that district heating companies be required to provide information on their use of biomass, including on the type of biomass used, as well as on whether the biomass is covered by the voluntary trade agreement. The proposal also requires the same information to be incorporated into the annual energy statistics at aggregated national level. The Enhedslisten is absolutely right that Denmark, like a number of other EU countries, is increasingly using biomass in the energy supply and that emissions from combustion are considered as CO2 But Enhedslisten is not right in that this approach is not related to reality. Denmark follows guidelines from the UN Climate Panel when preparing the national greenhouse gas emissions accounts. The logic is that greenhouse gas emissions from biomass are included when the biomass is removed from e.g. the forest or the field. The emissions that come from the entire cultivation process, for example. fertilization and transport are included in the agricultural and transport sector surveys in the countries where they take place. Reporting to the UN and the EU is to create a comprehensive and full overview of global emissions and to be able to follow the development of each country's emissions and here it is important that the same emissions are not counted twice. The government is fully aware that the biomass used not only for district heating but also for electricity generation must be sustainable. The government basically believes that rules for sustainable biomass should be established at EU level in order to create a level playing field for electricity and heat producers across the EU. Similarly, the government believes that the global inventory of greenhouse gas emissions should be based on common principles established within the framework of the United Nations. It should also be mentioned in this context that the CO2 Government welcomes the fact that, as part of the clean energy package, also known as the winter package, the European Commission has put forward proposals for common European sustainability criteria for all types of bioenergy, including solid biomass. The common European regulation is not ready tomorrow, and that is why I am very pleased that the industry has concluded the voluntary trade agreement which ensures that the use of biomass for energy production also leads to real and documented greenhouse gas reductions. In view of the fact that, as I said, the government is working for common international solutions, which should apply after 2020, we do not believe that it is appropriate to establish comprehensive national legislation at this stage. It is worth noting that the industry agreement already contains an obligation to provide information, and this obligation implies that district heating companies must publish reports on their websites on the use of biomass, which demonstrates how they comply with the sustainability criteria of the industry agreement. Finally, let me thank you once again for the proposal. I hope that today's discussions make it clear that when the government does not support the Enhedslisten's proposal, it is not because we disagree with the need to ensure that the biomass we use for energy production is truly sustainable, on the contrary, and therefore we also support the voluntary trade agreement and work for common European sustainability criteria that will apply for the period after 2020. However, we do not believe that a new national detailed regulation on the obligation to provide information will contribute further to addressing the challenges. On the other hand, I will work to ensure that Denmark, in the European Union and in cooperation with the industry, can contribute to creating the best possible conditions for the sustainable use of biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211554	Yes, and there are questions. Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211558	Thank you. I noted that the government cannot support our proposal. It's kind of funny because we want to make this CO2 visible. These are some figures that Denmark has to report to the UN and to the EU for how much is emitted through the chimneys in the Danish system. In this proposal we propose to make it visible in Denmark as well. And it is to be able to have a debate about what is happening in Denmark, what kind of imports we have and what kind of strain we have. It's a wrong weighting, you've chosen to have that long-term view of it and say that all biomass is CO2 2 I don't think it lasts, and I think you can go into making this visible in a better way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211700	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211702	Thank you for the question. In a way, I share Enhedslisten's view that using biomass is not without challenges. But we are also of the opinion that this is best regulated internationally. We do not think that imagining national legislation in this area is sensible. What's going on in this area is cross-border. Therefore, we are also satisfied that Danish District Heating and Danish Energy have made some criteria for importing biomass and requirements for how biomass should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211735	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211738	If you look at what you do in the electricity sector, then it is quite normal for an electricity company to inform you about the environmental impact of the power you sell. You can then see on the district heating side that there is then not the same practice. That, for example. happens in Aarhus, when you import wood pellets to Studstrupværket and blow it off in district heating, is that Aarhus Municipality can then in its CO 2 2 It doesn't last long. The wood pellets imported are not CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211812	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211813	Thank you for the question. In fact, there is information in this area. You can visit the works' websites and see their accounts and see the sustainability of the biomass used by the plants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211827	We thank the Minister and move on to the rapporteur's line. It's first, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523211838	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Enhedslisten for raising this debate. I believe that we will be discussing this very much in the coming years too, namely how we ensure sustainable use of biomass, and in fact understood as two different things, not just that the biomass we use must be sustainable, but also how we ensure that we do not use more biomass than is sustainable, because I am of the rather pragmatic view that, in some contexts, biomass can actually constitute a good alternative to coal in relation to a conversion. There may be some works where this is actually an appropriate solution, but I agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur I am now simply assuming that it does not say directly here and I know that Enhedslisten's rapporteur also thinks that we have too much conversion to biomass. I kind of agree with what we are seeing now. This is largely due to the taxes we have. Like the Minister, I do not think that the present resolution that we are discussing today is the best way to tackle this problem. I think it is wise to have a discussion and an awareness of this, and I also think it is natural to demand visibility also locally. I would like to say that I am actually confident that the people who sit around the works will also ensure this. I would like to say that it is the case that if you then get visible today that the biomass you use has a certain environmental impact, you are still subject to a law on heat supply, which ensures that what is cheapest is done, because you also have to ensure the cheapest possible heat prices. It may then be a pity if we really get something visible where we think that we find that difficult to defend, but that is the way to go, because the underlying problem is that the charges are arranged as they are. That is why, as a Social Democrat, I would rather go in and discuss what is standing in the way of making the sensible conversion in these places, so that heat pumps, for example, are brought in and not just a conversion to biomass. Because it is a little barren, I think, if you do not really have the opportunity out there to act on it, and that requires that it is profitable to switch to something other than biomass before you can, so to speak, draw a consequence. Then we have also made a PRS agreement, where we have agreed with the government and a number of other parties, that we have to look at how to avoid this inappropriate, large conversion to biomass. So once again, we agree that the current system, as it were, is distorting and doing so too much, but I also believe that this is the place where we should address it. Finally, the rapporteur for the proposers and myself, together with a number of other rapporteurs, recently wrote a chronicle in which we also say that we would like to continue to discuss sustainability criteria for biomass in the future. It is, of course, a matter of constantly tightening them up, this is about pressing in international forums to ensure that they are as good and as enforced as possible, and of course also to put pressure on the domestic sector to apply and apply the requirements and standards laid down in the industry agreement currently concluded. So much sympathy for the intentions. It is, in fact, an important discussion that Enhedslisten is raising, but I think that it is about attacking it by saying that you make a compulsory documentation requirement that you run down over all the plants, in fact to turn it upside down in relation to letting that discussion take place locally, and most importantly, if they do not really want to fire with biomass, they must have an economically viable alternative, which could be an electric heat pump. Hopefully it will be when we look at the charges that stand in the way of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212246	There is a question from Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212249	Jens Joel is right that the debate must also be taken locally. The only problem is that there are several places where you make agreements and where you only get the debate after you have committed yourself to some heat supply for 15-20 years. That was among other things. What happened to the Studstrup plant. So, agreements have now been made between Aarhus Municipality and Studstrupværk for the supply of district heating with the fuel that has then been converted into it. If we take Randers, we can see that there has been a debate there. For one had a period when rubber trees were imported from Africa and one had to try to explain that this was now a fair solution. Now it is acacia trees from Africa that are imported. There is probably too little debate on this. I would very much like us to come to the conclusion that we had a larger share of biomass from Denmark instead of ending up with these import solutions. That's why I think a little more knowledge of what we are burning off in our district heating supply will be appropriate. What this proposal is all about is that we have to make clear what kind of footprint we're setting with our district heating.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212356	Well, I think I understand that, and I actually think that Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen's examples of discussions show that they are also happening locally. What I am calling for is, in fact, an answer to what is then being done in the situation where we note: we have a biomass conversion which we do not really think is appropriate, because perhaps for various reasons we think it would be more sustainable to do something else. But if you do not actually have the opportunity to do anything else, because you are also obliged to provide the cheapest possible heat, then you do not have much value in discussing whether it was right to do so if you have to do so, so to speak. I think that Christiansborg's role is more important in ensuring that the wise choices are actually also some that can respond financially to the district heating companies, so that we ensure that things are going in the right direction, rather than requiring them to discuss something that they do not actually have quite a hand in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212454	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212454-2	I hope that some people will hear what we are discussing here. For there are also some works which have not taken a final decision as to what fuel they will choose, rather than a gas pine, when they are faced with the fact that the basic amount will fall shortly and they will actually have to choose the cheapest in economic terms. Then we have a CO2 So maybe we should have had this debate seriously five years ago, but we would like to raise it now because we want to help ensure that there is not too many misinvestments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212529-2	I very much agree with the latter. We have a responsibility, to put it very directly, to ensure that there is not too many misinvestments. What is the matter right now is that wise people make wrong decisions, because we have, as it were, a system that forces a transition through with a solution which then lasts 20 years but which was not really the right one. That is why I believe that we have a much greater task and a much greater responsibility in order to resolve the duties that we also discussed during the last debate and, among other things, in order to do so. is about ensuring charges that encourage the use of heat pumps. There I do not think this is the most precise instrument, although it is always beneficial to have a discussion on the sustainability of biomass.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212608	We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Mikkel Dencker, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212616	Thank you, President. The resolution here addresses a quite relevant issue, namely whether the biomass used in the district heating supply is now so CO2 and I would also like to go further and say that, when we have that discussion, we must also look at whether the biomass is also the wonder fuel that can justify the tax exemption that the fuel has today. The Enhedslisten also tabled a motion for a resolution some time ago, which we discussed here in the Danish Parliament, I think two weeks ago, namely B 92, which also addressed the use of biomass in the district heating sector. And then the charges were also intended to look at the analysis of the charges. I would like to say that I think these are relevant issues, both the one we are dealing with with B 93, but also the one we had with B 92, namely whether the increasingly widespread use of biomass in district heating supplies is now also the most appropriate. You can see it from different angles. Is the use of biomass in district heating good from an environmental point of view? It is, of course, relevant to discuss it, and that is also what is being raised here with the motion for a resolution. Is this the best solution for district heating consumers? And is this also the best solution for public finances? Because it has to be said that it creates a hole in the treasury when you have a fuel on which there is no charge at all, while all other fuels, which are also displaced by biomass, are subject to taxes which contribute to the financing of welfare. So it is quite fine that the discussion should be raised. It is also a discussion that we in the Danish People's Party are very willing to take. I would just like to say that I believe that the debate on biomass in the district heating supply should be seen as a whole, and it is the case that several analyses have been initiated which need to look at the interaction with public finances and the tax system in relation to biomass. It's probably the whole thing that needs to be seen. The authors of the motion for a resolution here propose that we impose on district heating supplies that, what can be said, declare their use of biomass on their website and in their annual report. I do not think that is the right way to tackle the problem or solve any problem. It must be that we analyse whether it is the right solution to use biomass in the district heating supply to the extent that it is used today. This is certainly something that needs to be discussed, and the proposers are right to do so. But the Danish People's Party cannot support the motion for a resolution before us, because we do not believe that this is the right solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212938	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. We'll move on to the next one, and that's sir. Thomas Danielsen as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523212946	Thank you for that, President. B-93 is about the visibility of the CO2 Left does not support the Enhedslisten's proposal, which imposes these special bureaucratic rules on the works. We want to follow the guidance of the UN Climate Panel, and we are, in fact, proud of the industry agreement, which ensures that the use of sustainable biomass leads to real and documented greenhouse gas reductions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213021	Thank you to the rapporteur. We are moving forward in the line of rapporteurs. The next one is sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213037	I shall also try to be brief. As the Minister has already explained, Denmark follows the guidelines of the United Nations Climate Panel when considering the burning of biomass for the CO2 Liberal Alliance agrees with the Government that the rules for sustainable energy are best established internationally, for example. The European Union must ensure a level playing field for energy producers throughout Europe. The European Union is already in the process of drawing up a common European regulation for bioenergy, and therefore, from the point of view of the Liberal Alliance, it makes no sense to implement comprehensive national legislation. That is why the Liberal Alliance does not support the resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten. I have promised to welcome the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party and to say that they do not support the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213138	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Poll as the Alternative's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213153	Thank you. The alternative is very positive about this proposal, because at the moment we are seeing a very inappropriate development towards biomass being considered a CO2 so we think it is a very good proposal that you get a greater focus on the CO2 so we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213235	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen from Enhedslisten as rapporteur for the proposers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213258	Thank you. Sometimes you have to have a debate several times before you come to the conclusion that you have won. I cannot help thinking back to the period when some people began to be thrilled that bio-aetanol was being produced on palm oil, bio-aetanol on maize, etc., and then suddenly more and more people found out that food prices were rising and that it actually had a backside to producing bio-aetanol on food for our cars. If you look at what we are proposing, it is not really that difficult, because if you look at the Danish Statistics' green national accounts for Denmark, you can actually find the figures that we are looking for here. And there you can see that the CO2 t. So it's just a question of taking that number and sharing it out on what it is for the individual heating plant in Denmark. And it could help to make it visible that the burning of biomass is not sustainable, and that there is a CO2 I recognise that a voluntary agreement has been made, an industry agreement on sustainable biomass, where there are some commitments and a certain speed also a speed that says it must be fully phased in by 2019. And that is why there is an opportunity to keep track of whether the trade agreement leads to the conclusion that it is sustainable biomass, and there is also an opportunity in that agreement to keep track of whether what should happen abroad actually happens. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the alternative for the nice reception. It's not that you've said the same thing, but I think it's a nice reception. You can see that we have a problem and that we need to have a debate that goes on and that we need to make it more nuanced to come up with our total CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213555	The debate is open. We are just giving the tax minister time to find out the papers, because the last debate went very quickly, and it might have come as a surprise. But now the tax minister is present, and it just requires that the tax minister has his papers out, which are not papers, but in these modern times is an iPad. I give the floor to the Minister for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523213630	I am very sorry, but sometimes things go a little bit fast in the Parliamentary Chamber; sometimes things go slow, and sometimes things go fast. But now I have found the papers and we are going to deal today with a motion for a resolution from the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the Socialist People's Party, in which the parties are proposing to abolish tax advantages at parental buying apartments. I should like to start by saying that the government is generally positive about proposals that support a fairer and balanced tax system, and I therefore recognise that the intention behind the proposal can be good enough in terms of taxation, but I do not believe that the proposal is the right one to ensure the balance that is demanded. That is why the government intends to reject the motion for a resolution. Firstly, the proposal seeks to prevent taxation under the rules of the Corporate Tax Act for the rental of parents' apartments. As a justification, the parties behind the proposal refer to the fact that the opportunities for parental buying are largely available only for the wealthiest part of the population. I'm not so concerned about whether a trader is rich or poor. A successful trader can create lots of jobs that Denmark needs. However, I can of course support the fact that there should be no arbitrary access to the tax conditions that apply to the business of self-employed persons, such as the United Kingdom. business arrangements. At present, therefore, the Danish Parliament is considering a draft law tabled by the Government, entitled "L 194', which aims to ensure that the tax conditions intended to apply to real business enterprises are precisely targeted at such companies. In my view and in the view of the government, the proposed intervention contains a number of problems, which is why we cannot support it. The proposal therefore requires that cases of so-called parents' purchase be identified in a legislative manner; that is to say, cases where parents buy an apartment for their child's rental. In order to hit those situations, it will require a detailed but also too vulnerable definition of the personal relationships to be covered by the proposal, and in practice such rules will be difficult, almost impossible to manage and will require additional control activities from SKAT, and they will also be relatively easy to deal with. In general, I have reservations about introducing legislation that is difficult to administer and can be easily circumvented. You have to be very careful about that. Overall, the Government does not consider that the purpose of targeting the application of the corporate scheme outweighs the administrative problems posed by the proposal and, on that basis, the Government cannot support the part of the bill relating to the abolition of the possibility of applying the company scheme to parents' apartments. As I said, it is because everyone has the opportunity to take advantage of what many parents use to make sure that their child or children have a home. Among other things: In those cities where it may be difficult to access rental accommodation, some people take advantage of this option. It is not an option that is aimed at parents, but part of the tax legislation that is particularly used to buy apartments from parents for children. That is why we cannot simply take action against the parent part. It would then have to be a general procedure. As I said, the government does not support that. Secondly, the motion for a resolution proposes the abolition of the so-called 15-percent rule, which can be applied to the transfer of property between related parties. The 15-percent rule has not normally been applied to parents' apartments, since the parents' apartments have been regarded as rental properties in terms of assessment. In other words, it has so far been the case that the commercial value of such transfers has had to be used. However, not so long ago we have reached a broad political agreement, which translates into a new property assessment system, and there are two points I would like to highlight in this context: the new system must restore confidence in public assessments and provide more accurate assessments of Danes' properties, and for reasons of legal certainty I believe that all Danes should be able to support the public assessment of their property. I must also acknowledge, however, that the valuation of real estate is linked to a certain degree of uncertainty, and that is precisely the uncertainty that justifies the closeness to determine the value of real estate within a certain range of public valuations. And with the new property valuations, the rental ratio is no longer to be taken into account and the property will thus be assessed at the commercial value of the property as free, and the transfer can take place as a starting point for the property valuation +/- 20 per cent. This corresponds to the uncertainty margin within which a general assessment may lie, without it being wrong for that reason. The upcoming property valuation system will therefore support future real estate transfer at the right value, knowing that the real value is a spread. Against this background, the government cannot support that part of the resolution which concerns the 15-percent rule. Therefore, overall, as the government cannot support either of the two key parts of the resolution, I must inform you that the government does not support the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214206	Thank you. There are a few questions, and the first is from Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214210	This is about the fact that if we abolished the parental purchasing system, the Treasury could save between 125 million. kr. and 250 million kr., and for the tax minister it may not be the large amounts, but if you used that money to build more youth housing for, we could get many of them for that amount. I am glad that the Minister raises the question of what it is to be a real trader, because I consider it here from my knowledge that people who have a child, who have entered an education in another city and who have difficulty in finding a home, choose to buy a home for the child, and then I find it difficult to see that you are moving into something about being a real trader when you rent a home for your child. It is not because we in the Enhedslisten object to helping each other within the family. It could also be a child who bought an apartment for his old mother. That is not what we want to prevent, but we do not think it is right that there should be this indirect tax financing of it. Can the Minister not see that we are not dealing with real traders here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214320	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214322	They're real traders. Otherwise it wouldn't be possible. But it is such a model, which is used a lot for parents' purchases, and it is an expression that it can be difficult to find housing in, among other things. The Copenhagen area. This is also the case, and I think it should be borne in mind that if you take advantage of the company scheme and you rent the apartment, there is a profit margin, that is, what you own, from buying to selling. You don't pay property value tax, but on the other hand there's a profit margin on what's the gain. So, overall, I think we can argue for the fairness of the scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214405	Sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214408	With regard to the fairness of the scheme, I would like to say that it looks as if it is an economic advantage for parents to opt for the company scheme and get a lawyer to take care of it. I think it would be most reasonable to abolish this scheme so as not to favour those who can afford to buy a home for their children. This has an antisocial side in that it helps to ensure that the richest can make it easier for their children to complete higher education, no matter what city it is in. Can't the Minister see the disadvantage of that bias?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214445	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214447	No, basically, I can't. That is legitimate if you want to take action against rental with what is here, and the government cannot see itself in that motion for a resolution. We have a problem with young people starting an education in, among other things. The metropolitan area cannot find anywhere to live, and it can of course be said that some of those who have the opportunity to solve this problem by buying an apartment take advantage of the rules that apply to it. If that option is removed, will there be better opportunities for the children concerned to find a place to live and to attend to their education? No, there wouldn't be. After all, there will be no more youth homes or more rentals for that reason. On the contrary, there could be greater pressure on the housing market. Therefore, the government cannot see itself in this, as Enhedslisten has formulated the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214548	Sir. Kaare Dybvad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214550	Thank you, Minister, for your statement. I would just like to make sure that I understood it quite correctly that what the Minister said was that the opportunity to sell at a price which is 15%. lower, in fact, will be abolished with the tax agreement that has been made now. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214610	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214612	I can read again from my speech paper: the 15-percent rule has usually not been applicable to parents' apartments, as parents' apartments have been assessed as rental properties. In other words, it has so far been the case that commercial value should be used for such transfers. But we have then reached a broad agreement which will lead to a new property assessment system. In the new property valuation system it will be the case that with the new property valuations the lease relationship will no longer be important. In most cases, these are also considerably higher valuations, and the property will thus be valued at the commercial value of the property, and free transfer can then be done as a starting point for the property valuation +/- 20 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214658	The next person to ask questions is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214705	I think there are a great many parents who buy apartments under the corporate scheme who have had the impression that they have had the opportunity to sell the property afterwards to their children 15%. cheaper. However, I understand the Minister's reply that it does not seem to the Minister to have been applicable, but in the future it will be possible to sell the dwelling 20%. cheaper than what is applicable in the public property assessment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214737	Today the ratings are very low, including those where there are parents' apartments. When we have a new assessment system, the assessment is raised to the real value. That is where we want to support the transferability to the real value. What, then, is the real value? There is a range of +/- 20 per cent, and the uncertainty we think should benefit the property owners. Therefore, with the new property valuations, the rental ratio will not be taken into account, and the property will be valued at the commercial value of the property, and the free transfer will take place at a price corresponding to the property valuation +/- 20%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214816	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214818	So if we as proposers change the 15%. 20%, so it's just 5%. Worse, wouldn't the Minister agree with us that first parents have a shitty tax discount by using the business model, and then you can rent your apartment to your children, and the children might get housing security, and finally you can sell the property at a discount to the child?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214846	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214848	You can also, when you buy an apartment, risk it falling into value. You take a risk. This is the risk that reflects the advantages and disadvantages of the company scheme. So the one scenario may be true, but the opposite scenario may also be true, and the last scenario has certainly been true for some during the financial crisis, where housing prices in Copenhagen fell quite significantly. If you earn money and have not paid property value tax because you have had rentals, which are the rental value of your own dwelling, then you have to be taxed on the profit that is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214920	Then it's mr. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214923	I'm sorry, but now I think the tax minister's taking a detour. It is asked whether it is possible to sell the property to +/- 20%, and then the tax minister answers: Sometimes you lose money on a housing trade. But if you can sell at 20%. Under market value, it may actually be that you haven't lost money. Whatever the case, it is of course a pity to lose money, but that is not an answer to the question. Is it a problem for better-off citizens to have tax rebates - yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523214959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215001	I'm not really looking at whether you're better off. In other words, if you have bought a home in confidence that some rules apply, then I think, whether you are rich or poor, that we as politicians do not owe it to us to change things retroactively. I think we owe that. It's only decent and decent. I'm sorry, sir. Roger Matthisen is not satisfied with the way I answer, but it is my privilege to decide how I answer and what I answer, just as it is the privilege of a Member of Parliament to decide what to ask of questions. I can't decide what's being asked if it could otherwise be nice, just as the questioner can't decide what to answer either. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215036	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215037	That is clear, and that is why I would ask the Minister of Taxation to elaborate on it. Okay, then the tax minister says that if you remove these tax advantages, you're gonna take away the opportunity to buy a home. After all, we are not taking away the opportunity for citizens to buy a home. We are removing some tax advantages, which in many cases are the richest part of Denmark's citizens who use them, and we could spend the money from the tax benefits that make up a sum of 125-250 million. kr., building study homes that benefit all citizens, whether you are rich or poor. So because we're removing these tax advantages, it's not like you can't go out buying a house anyway. We just want to make sure you spend the money more fairly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215135	The Secretary of State for Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215137	It is true that the revenue that comes in can be spent on other things. I think that if you have to do something about the housing shortage in Copenhagen, you have to do something at City Hall, which is a bit away from here. That's where you have a lot of money on the book and some opportunities to do some urban planning. You might also get into the situation that if this option doesn't exist, these apartments will be bought up as pure speculation and as investment so that nobody lives in them. If an apartment is purchased as a parent, common sense suggests that it is inhabited by some, and in many cases, where it is a student living in an apartment, the other room or the other part of the apartment is rented out to some and shared with some. That is why I believe that this model can be a good way of remedying the problem of housing shortages in the metropolitan area. There's a lot of people taking advantage of this income differential scheme, so it's not just the most wealthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215235	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215237	Thank you. I sat up in my office and followed the debate here, and I heard it as if the tax minister said that this 15-percent rule has not been applied and that it has not been part of the debate about this. Many of us have said: listen, you can have an apartment that may have a market value of 3 million. kr., an estimate of 11⁄2 million. kr., or whatever it is, 2 million. kr., and then under some circumstances you can sell to your children 15%. in that assessment, and it gives a very massive benefit to those children because they then suddenly get a lot of money tied in the value of this apartment. Is the Minister saying that the 15-percent rule has not been applied and that it is not part of this discussion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215330	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215332	I say and I read out of my speech paper again: the 15-percent rule has not normally been applicable to parents' apartments, since parents' apartments have been regarded as rental property in terms of value. In other words, it has so far been the case that the commercial value of such transfers has had to be used. So, from my point of view, that is an affirmative answer to what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215351	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215353	We have been discussing this intensively for at least six months, and I have always heard before that this 15-percent rule was really just something that politicians and the media and everyone who has participated in this discussion have misunderstood, because de facto it does not exist. The Minister is standing on the floor of Parliament's platform, and he must know whether some of the most fundamental elements of the discussion we are talking about are just something that everyone has misunderstood, that is to say, that in reality no action has been taken at 15%. during the assessment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215431	I would like to explain what the rules are and I would like to explain them further in committee in writing to the motion for a resolution. But in my view, yes, part of the debate that has taken place on parental buying has not taken place on a proper professional basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215450	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. We move on to the rapporteur's line, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215506	Thank you for that, President. In the Social Democratic Party, we share the concern behind this proposal. We find it a problem to experience Copenhagen neighbourhoods where up to half of the owner-occupied housing is owned by people who do not live in the municipality. They are typically owned by people living north of Copenhagen in prosperous municipalities. It pushes house prices upwards, and this makes it somewhat more difficult for young people who come from outside and who may not have parents who can buy an apartment for them to get a home. Conversely, we must also say that if, as a citizen, you want to invest in a property, we cannot see why there is the great difference in principle between renting it to your children or renting it to some other people. We do not think that people should be put at a disadvantage because they rent out to their own children, compared to if they rent out to any other citizen. Part of the problem with the VSO, the corporate tax scheme, is that you can rent out some very low rents, and that means that if you have a loss, it can be converted into a small tax payment. When you have the low rents, it is due to the skillful and well implemented housing regulation that you have in Denmark. It is a housing regulation which the Social Democrats have been behind and supported over all the years, and it is a housing regulation which at least two of the three parties who make this proposal agree with, and so housing regulation means that you should not take very much money for a rental house, in other words no matter where it is located, and if someone pays too much, he can withdraw his landlord from the rent board. But when you pay the low rent, and when there are these 180,000 homes that have a relatively low rent, so that ordinary people can get a home, it also makes it that when a parent rents a dwelling, it is also rented for a low rent. And when it is rented for a low rent and you have invested a large amount, and you end up going out with a deficit, you have to pay less in tax. You can see that from different angles. We see it in this way that we basically believe that if you want to change this, you have to change the corporate tax scheme instead of making it more difficult to rent out to your children. We would encourage the Minister and his ministry to investigate how to ensure that perhaps fewer homes are bought in this way, and how to remedy the situation that is in that a very, very large part of the owner's homes that are in some areas of Copenhagen, Aarhus and other cities are owned by people who do not inhabit them, because we also basically believe that it is healthy that you live in that area, that you take responsibility for the housing you are in and the rise you are in, and that this is also, of course, related to the ownership of the dwelling. So, with these comments, we unfortunately have to say that we cannot support the proposal as it stands here. However, we agree that it is a challenge for parents to buy and that solutions must be found to this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215810	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215815	Thank you for that to the rapporteur. S agrees that we need to find solutions to the problem. Does S have any suggestions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215828	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215829	No, that's what I'm calling on the Ministry to look at. I myself do not have tax experts in my department of Christiansborg, and I must also say that with the much room there is about the tax administration, so it seems very reasonable that we should give them a little peace of mind to the work and to come up with the solutions that they want, including this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215857	Does the questioner have a follow-up question? He has. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215900	Thank you. Okay, but there is a reason why we have some tax rules in Denmark, which means that spouses are not favorable in several areas, so that they cannot bypass the tax system by keeping it within the family. That is why we must, for example, do something about it. don't give more than 60,000 kroner. in a gift, but these opportunities mean that you can sell the apartment after you rent it out with a tax discount. In relation to the corporate tax scheme, you can sell the apartment at 15%. Under market value, and now the tax minister says that it can also be 20%. below market value. So it is a much greater potential gift in the form of a tax-free profit that you give to your child. Does S think that's okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523215953	No, if that's what it was, I wouldn't necessarily think it was okay. But as I hear it and read the situation, the property system is being changed so that most of these homes will increase in the assessment. There will then be a general opportunity to sell dwellings at 10-20 per cent. in the light of the assessment that is being made, and that will mean that the low assessments that are currently being made will not be used here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220020	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220025	I am glad, then, that the rapporteur would like to take part in looking at whether there is something that needs to be adjusted and that it might be changing the business system. So, I think it is a little strange that a company scheme should apply if you only have one apartment that you rent out to your son, just as I also find it strange that you have a company scheme that can apply if you have bought a solar plant for your house. What's next? Why not make things a little simpler? There are some parents who want to help their children, and of course it should not be made illegal to help their children. So I'm looking forward to having this elucidated. Then I would like to know whether it is not the rapporteur's view that this rule of selling at 15%. in the course of the assessment is something that has been applicable. Now I have found it on the SKAT website, and unless it is completely outdated, it seems as if it is a scheme that is currently in force. I would like to know whether the rapporteur shares my view that the possibility of selling an apartment relatively cheaply to his child and that the child can thus obtain an economic advantage is there and whether the rapporteur thinks it is reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220127-2	Well, until this evening, I have been of the opinion that this was the case. Well, maybe I've been wrong about that. It could be that we had to ask a follow-up question to find out at least. However, I believe that Enhedslisten's rapporteur hits it very well by saying that if you want to take the discussion on parental purchases, it is more about the corporate tax regime. We who come out of the country know that the corporate tax scheme was originally created to allow farmers to run their business with their private lives, as most farmers do. But, of course, it has taken care of it, as the rapporteur also says. I just think this proposal is kind of like waking up with a cold and being snotty and thinking it's the nose, it's wrong with when it's really deeper down in the system it's sitting. This is only a small part of the discussion on the corporate tax system, and it must be taken together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220221	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is Mrs Merete Dea Larsen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220228	Thank you. I can hear that I am not the only one who is sympathetic to the proposal to abolish the tax advantage of parents' apartments. But there is just a difference between having sympathy for it and then being in favour of it being abolished here and now and today, without having been made clear the consequences that might result from it. Who will it affect if we abolish the company regime in this area over a night? Is there anyone else that will affect the take-over companies, small businesses? I think it is very, very important that things are properly clarified before taking this kind of action, which is not the first thing we see from the parties concerned. The Danish People's Party does not consider parent purchase to be a company, which is why we agree with that part. But what worries us is how to go in and define it, and I hope that is some of what the Minister will bring here today and look at: Is there an opportunity to define it, or will the great savings highlighted in the remarks not just be eaten up in administration and bureaucracy, by checking each person, whether it is a child who rents the dwelling, or it is someone else, etc.? Then there is the second part of the proposal, which is about selling a home to your children and thus obtaining some sort of discount, you might call it. This is basically not something we have any problems with as parents choosing to help your child on the way in life. And if it's about buying an apartment that the child can be in, we actually think that it's only a very positive thing that parents take responsibility for their children. I also believe that it probably goes in and relieves some of the public housing and youth housing around, that some actually assume responsibility themselves and have the opportunity to buy them themselves. They will then have the opportunity to buy below the price, and it can be said that with the latest public assessment, which is currently in force until the new system comes into force, it has been a challenge because public assessment has not worked at all, either in one direction or another. So I have no doubt that some have benefited from it very well. I will then also have to have faith that the new system of public assessment, which will come into force soon, will give a much more accurate picture of what is in force, what is not in force and what is really worth a home. And when you have that amount, we also all know that you can never put an amount on an apartment and then expect that that is necessarily what you get for it if you go out in a real sale. So I actually think it's fair that there's a margin of uncertainty that you benefit from when it's for your child that you sell. So basically, the Danish People's Party cannot support the overall motion for a resolution, but we very much hope that the Minister will look into the possibilities for the company scheme, i.e. whether there are any options, tools and tools that might be adjusted to enable us to meet the proposal in part.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220548	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Egge Rasmussen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220552	When you make a proposal, it is not always possible to expect the whole thing to be adopted, so if we can have half of it adopted after a committee reading and write a report that can define how the business system could be modelled and reduced, then that is fine. Well, it was exciting to know that it was actually a scheme intended for farmers and that then it is something that has spread to solar cells and parents' purchases, and if we can roll something back and like do it in a proper way, I think it will be really fine. Then I would like to make it clear that this proposal is something that must be applied in the future. I mean, it's a proposal that says that the government has to put forward something that could then be applicable from 1 January 2018. So it's not like we want to do something with retroactive effect. We leave such things to the government to propose. It's just to clarify. But I look forward to having a discussion on whether we could perhaps find something that could adjust to what is happening at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220646	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220648	I just need to point out that at no time will I vote in favour of this proposal to abolish the system, whatever happens along the way. But for me, it's important that you go in and look at these tools and have them examined. It actually goes like a thread through all the legislative proposals that I am currently in and comment on in this Chamber, even tomorrow, that I do not like going in and instructing the Minister to do away with things without having actually first clarified the issue. So we have to get things in the right order, and I usually want to be more responsive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220719	I am a little surprised that the rapporteur has this position, because I have read some articles in Berlingske, where I could understand that the rapporteur thinks this is a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220731	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220733	Yes, I have said on a number of occasions that I absolutely think this is something we should look at, because, as I said earlier, I do not necessarily believe that tax advantages should be granted by making a purchase of parents. This does not mean, however, that parents' purchases in themselves and in isolation, as I have emphasized every time I have spoken, are a problem. I think it makes sense for parents to go out and help their children along the way... everything they can. But, of course, we need to limit the tax advantage, and that is also why I am again referring to the fact that I hope the Minister will continue to work on this. For it must also be something that makes sense, and it must be something that can be done in practice, and not just symbolic policy, where savings are actually eaten up in bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220811	The next question is Mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220813	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and reply to the brief remarks. I am a little puzzled because I believe that Mrs Merete Dea Larsen is very aware that we must bring all citizens across all social divisions. And if we have a system that is wrong, is it not necessary, in the rapporteur's view, to look at whether we can make better use of the proceeds spent on the scheme?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220853	Yes, but that also presupposes that you believe that there will be revenue and that it will not all disappear into bureaucracy and believe that this will be possible in practice at all. That is what I am questioning, namely whether it is actually possible to do so. Because how can we go out and check whether it is a child or a young person or a neighbor you rent out to or who it is? That's just it. Then I completely agree with that, sir. Roger Matthisen says it has to be across all social divisions. And that also means that it must also accommodate those who are better off and have the opportunity to go out and buy independently and independently instead of having to enter a public residence or into a youth college or other. I believe that everyone should have the opportunity to have a youth home, including the well-off.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220936	Are there any more questions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523220938	I'm sorry, I'm just gonna have to get used to pulling back in. We agree far along the way, can I understand, so what is the next step? I know that DF likes sunset clauses, and that is what we are actually saying. We're saying we're giving a lot of months to get the tax minister figured out if this is possible. Would the DF not say that, if possible, we should look at how we use the proceeds in the best possible way for the benefit of all citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221023	But that depends entirely on what the answer will be and how it will be designed. Because it might well be that there was an answer with some tools you could actually take and seize, but that those tools had some other inappropriate consequences. I will not stand by and say that I will say yes to using those tools, regardless of the consequences they may have. So I will keep doing things in the right order. In fact, I think it might be an excellent written question to ask the Minister what the consequences will be. So I would urge the authors of the motion to ask some written questions which, of course, always clarify the issues to a good extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221059	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221102	Thank you. I shall have such a need to stress that the proposal is about abolishing the tax advantages of parents' apartments and not parents' purchases. That is not the point of the proposal. Did I hear the rapporteur say that the rapporteur could well see himself helping to eliminate the enormous tax advantages that could be enjoyed by parents, who only benefit the richest? Because we all know that certain parents can afford to buy these apartments. And when you do it under this business model, you get some pretty big tax discounts too. Did I hear the rapporteur say that the tax advantages would be shared by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221149	Yes, I would like to take part in looking at the tax benefits, because basically I think that it is problematic and can be challenging if there are too many tax advantages to be obtained. And when we get this clarified, it is that we should have done away with the advantages and disadvantages and looked at who it might affect unnecessarily, whether there are some, it goes beyond where it was not meant to be parents' purchases, but others if we go in and tamper with the business scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221214-2	Indeed, tax advantages are also a lack of tax revenue, one might say, and therefore also less opportunities to build the youth housing that is so much needed. In other words, if these tax revenues had now been brought into the municipalities, they would also have been able to afford to build the youth housing. Do I hear the rapporteur say that perhaps this was a road we should try to look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221240-2	I would say that there is ample opportunity to build youth housing as it is today, and there have been the last many, many years. It is not all the cities that have made use of this opportunity to the extent that they have had an excellent framework. So I think that the municipalities should actually take on the responsibility they should be aware of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221301	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next rapporteur is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221311	Thank you. Now, this resolution is one in which one can really feel that there is an ideological difference, because this motion for a resolution is trying to curb the trade in parents' apartments. There we simply have a different view basically. We think it is positive that parents take responsibility for their children and help them move on in life, that they buy some apartments that children can rent so that they do not have to burden the non-profit-making residences. So we really think that is really, really positive. We just have no need to punish people economically in that area. But it is quite all right that you can feel a difference between the different parties. I have full respect for that, and that is why we think it is a good idea that there are good opportunities for the purchase of apartments by parents. We also believe that if we were now to try to abolish the company tax scheme only for parent-bought apartments, we would encounter a lot of demarcation problems. Then you could just rent accommodations for your friends' children instead of renting out to your own children. Then you could make a trade like that, trade the grocery store. How are we supposed to contain this kind of thing? That would, of course, give all sorts of reasons to create problems with circumvention of this. It could be dealt with in many ways. That is one of the reasons why we need to be careful about such special rules, so we see this as a major challenge in relation to it. We must then be aware that we do not have enough residences for all those seeking educational establishments in the large cities. So we're gonna have a huge challenge getting homes for all these people. However, we are aware of what can be done to provide housing, which is why we are in the process of amending the planning law so that there will be better use of removable containers for dormitories. After all, some tests have been made with some of these removable containers, which are quite good to use for educational homes. So we think that is really positive, and that is one of the things we have given better opportunity to do with the law of plans. So we are very aware of the problem of finding places that people can live when they have to study, but we certainly think this is going in the wrong direction in this respect. That is why the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution. And I think I should also say from the Conservatives that they do not support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221529	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221532	I will need once to stress that this proposal is not about abolishing the possibility for parents to buy an apartment for their children. This proposal is about removing the tax advantage associated with parent purchase under the rules that apply here. Now the rapporteur says that the Left does not need to punish people financially, but the proposal here is not about punishing people financially either. The proposal is that you do not have to give people huge tax rebates as a result of parents' purchases. Will the rapporteur help to eliminate huge tax rebates as a result of parents' purchases?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221618	I think it is very strange if you are to have the opportunity to use the corporate tax scheme to rent out to your friends' children, but not to your own children. I think that is a great deal of discrimination. I find it deeply strange that you should be punished for helping your own children, but that you must help the children of all sorts of others. I think that's weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221634	No, but the hand on the heart: We don't see for ourselves that all sorts of people want to buy apartments for the children of all sorts of others. Well, this is all about some parents who really want to buy an apartment that their kids can live in. The legislation is so simply screwed up that it also gives them a lot of tax rebates, and we are talking about a lot of money. Well, it could amount to millions of kroner, which the child can ultimately earn from these schemes. After all, it was money that we could use to build the study homes that I hear the rapporteur is also asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221709	I do not believe that we can get a lot of money to abolish the corporate tax regime here. I believe that people can easily find a way to rent a place for their friends' children. Well, I think there are ways to bypass a rule that says you just can't do it with your own kids. I think it's strange that you should be discriminated against in relation to your own children. I think we have a responsibility for our own children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221729	The next question is Mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221731	Now it is the case that we have asked the tax minister what the loss of revenue is because of the fact that the corporate tax scheme applies in this area. That is then an amount between 125 and 250 million. kr. Had that amount been 1,000 kroner? In total, we probably wouldn't have made this proposal. In fact, we think it is a significant amount. I can see that you can have that trick about renting one apartment for friends' kids. But you could make an adjustment to the corporate tax system, so it only applied if you had four homes or three homes. So there is the possibility of making a cut which limits where it is possible to use the corporate tax scheme. I don't think it's fair that just because you own one home, you can start to think of it as running a company just because you rent one home for your child. So why do you have to make a business relationship between the child and the parents? I don't think that's fair. But I think it is good if it is the case that family members help each other, I have great sympathy for that. However, it should not be the case that it is the Treasury which, in this way, helps to finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221832	It could then be said that only the real rich could afford to buy four homes for their grandchildren, which could be part of the corporate tax scheme. That's how you could choose to see it. I think water always runs down, so it's gonna find some holes no matter what. And those prerequisites have been added to how much you get into revenue. One should also consider whether one really believes that the students themselves can afford to buy the homes instead. I seriously doubt that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221855	Now studies have been carried out on who is using these parents' purchases, and this shows very clearly that parents live north of the City of Copenhagen, who buy small apartments very much inside the central part of Copenhagen. Looking at the Århus area, there is a similar trend in that it is parents from neighborhoods with good income who buy small apartments for their children inside the city. So it's actually pretty well-defined who's using these schemes. It is therefore relatively rich people who can afford to buy a home and peace be with it, but it should not be the case that there is a tax advantage in it. That is why we are raising the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221935	I think it is positive that someone is taking responsibility for helping their children, if they have the opportunity to do so. I think that is only positive and I have no problem with it. I think it is fine that then there are more of the other homes for those who have no opportunity to help their children further. I actually think that helps everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221948	The next question is Mr. Roger Matthisen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523221951	Thank you, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech and replies to comments. I actually agree with DF's rapporteur that we need to find out whether this proposal is fully thought out enough, and that is why we are giving the tax minister time to think about it for the rest of the year, and then he can give a message back. I find it striking that the rapporteur says that we should find out how to circumvent the tax. Because that is really the challenge here: people are speculating about it in relation to their children. What we want to do is to ensure that people who are already quite well off do not have tax advantages. The rapporteur himself says that we must also find other housing, for example. container housing. Well, actually, you could get container homes. For the proceeds of up to 250 million. kr., i.e. 0.25 billion. kr., you could get 1,250 container homes for children from all layers in relation to student accommodation. Does that not impress the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222105	As I said, I do not believe that this revenue can be obtained, and I certainly believe that what the rapporteur is proposing is discrimination so that everyone else can be helped. I mean, all sorts of other people can get the corporate tax scheme, just not if you rent out to your own kids. I think it is a strange discrimination to be placed at a disadvantage if it is your own children you want to help than if it is the neighbour's.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222122	Sir. Roger Matthisen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222124	The rapporteur says so himself. Do you think the students will be able to afford to buy these apartments? Probably not. But there are also all kinds of other ways of financing apartments. We also see a co-operative movement that is sprouting ahead, where citizens come together to form new ways of living, living and building. What we are just interested in is that those who already have should not have additional tax advantages. That's what we're talking about here. And you yourself have, I am sorry, the rapporteur has mentioned the container homes himself, and precisely container homes are some very good alternatives to study homes that can flourish anywhere, and there you can get 1,250 of these homes for this extra income.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222206	Thank you for the questioner's self-righteousness. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222210	I do not quite know what the question was, but what I can say is that I still think that it is a strange envy policy to punish people who want to help their own children, but that you want to help those who want to help their neighbour's children. I think it should be the same rules that apply regardless of whose children you help. It must be the same schemes, otherwise there is just a risk that people are trying to find another way around it. I think it is fantastic if we have a varied housing offer, because we should not decide what people should live in, and that is why I think it is strange that we should contain this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222237	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222301	Thank you for that, President. The proposers want to remove the possibility of using the company scheme for parents' purchases and remove this 15-percent rule. And I must say straight away that we cannot support the proposal. If it were the case that there was a rule directed directly at parents, then we could support removing it, but this is a system which applies to everyone and which can then also be used by parents if they buy an apartment and rent it to their children and thus become a trader. So it is, as it were, for everyone to say, and then there are some who choose to use the scheme to help their children, we have no problem with. Then there's the discussion about this 15-percent rule. It is then called a tax advantage. The point here has probably been that when you had fair valuations of property, which is an estimate of what a property is worth, you would allow the doubt to benefit the parents if they wanted to sell an apartment to their children. And I think that is actually a good principle, because the basic starting point must be that when you buy something, when you acquire something through a purchase, you can sort of sell at whoever you want, at exactly the price you want to sell it to. That must be the starting point. Well, if I want to sell my pen, I can sell it at exactly the price I want to sell it to. I can even give it away for free. So it's only because we're taxing something that we have to make rules like this. And shouldn't the doubt benefit the seller when the seller wants to help his children? Yes, of course the doubt must be so the doubt as to what the valuation is, what the property costs, of course it should. If I bought this pen for 1,000 kroner, I can give it to my child for 0 kroner, because it's not being taxed. The sale of this pen will not be taxed. We have chosen to tax property, and that is why we need to have some rules on what to sell to us. And there I think it is a healthy principle to leave the doubt about what the real property value is to the benefit of the citizens when they want to help their children. I think that is a very good principle. Now there are some new property assessments that are becoming more right-wing. The public property valuation gets this uncertainty spread of plus/minus 20%, which, after all, reflects a real uncertainty about what the market price is, so there is not a fixed market price on properties. And there it is so that you can sell your property to your children with minus 20%. But it is not an indication that you do not necessarily sell at the real market price, because the public property assessment is an estimate. So the real market price can easily be 20 per cent. This is why it is not a tax advantage. We are doing what is, of course, quite fair and quite reasonable, that is to say that the public authorities are putting in place a range of uncertainties. And that uncertainty must benefit people when they sell an apartment to their children. I think that is completely unproblematic. So the short of the long one is that we cannot support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Next in line, sir. Roger Matthisen as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523222739	Thank you for that, President. We are talking about B 133, proposals for a parliamentary resolution on the abolition of tax advantages for parents' apartments. We have heard the tax minister review the resolution and we have actually heard a number of comments from the authors of the proposals to the previous rapporteurs. So I really want to be very brief. Of the tax minister's answer to question 564, alm. It is clear from this that the abolition of special tax advantages and the increase in taxation, specifically on the rental of immovable property from parents to children, would result in an additional revenue of between 125 and 250 million. kr., i.e. a quarter billion. The rapporteur of the Left chose to include container housing, which I assume the rapporteur has been out to see. They are well-appointed and good and a very, very innovative offer on how to solve the problem that we lack 9,500 study accommodations in Copenhagen and 4,500 study accommodations in Aarhus. A quarter of a billion can provide housing for 1,500 students and I think that is worth taking into account in relation to the segment that benefits from this scheme that provides tax advantages. So I agree that the resolution may not be entirely bulletproof. We'll let the tax minister rain on it, and then we'll have to look at what else can be done. But for us it is necessary to address the rapporteur of the Left in particular that wanting to have a more equal society is a real pity to call envy policy. For us, it is about creating a more equal society for everyone, where all students have access to good student accommodation. That was very short. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223001	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There was a request for a brief comment from Mrs Merete Dea Larsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223008	That's because the removable student residences came in here all of a sudden. I hope that the rapporteur can confirm that it is not just some people that can be built. It's not something that just happens in one night or in a year for that matter. It's no matter what a long process. I see a huge potential in the mobile residences, and I am very, very happy that it will now be possible, but I am inclined to say that it is only 50. It's great that it's 50, but it's actually no more than 50 that you expect to be ready next time because things take time. It also takes time to establish homes. So you can have a desire for many study accommodation very, very quickly, but there is also something called reality that needs to keep up in order to establish them. Can the rapporteur confirm that 1 500 homes cannot be set up, even if the economy might be there to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223103	No, the rapporteur cannot confirm that. Where does the rapporteur get the 50 homes? Is it because you talk areawise to the harbour of Copenhagen? Or are you talking about it at national level? Second Vice-President No direct indictment may be used). I'm sorry. Or is the rapporteur talking about land at national level? If the rapporteur coordinates the efforts in Aarhus, Odense and Copenhagen it is probably far more than 50. I'm talking about what you can set up for 0.25 billion. kr., and I have the figure from those who are responsible for the project, namely CPH Containers. They say there are housing for 1,250 students for 0.25 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223152	That's right. But the same people will also be able to tell the rapporteur that it is not housing that can be set up in a short time. It takes time to build these homes. It takes time to establish them. So what we expect to be ready for after the summer break is to start with 50 removable studios, and that's great, but it's a long way to 1.500.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223215-2	Agreed. The rapporteur believes that after the summer break 2017 50 homes can be available. I agree with that. The homes are built in sustainable materials etc., but you can easily figure out a plan so that we can get the construction going. After all, it is a very easy scalable project that they have established.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223246	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Andreas Steenberg as rapporteur on the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223300	In the Radical Left, we see no reason why people who acquire a home by so-called parents' purchases should have more favourable tax rules than people who acquire a home on quite ordinary terms. According to the proposers and according to the reply from the Ministry of Taxation, this is a scheme which could bring between 125 million and 125 million. kr. and 250 million kr., if it was put to stop, and it is therefore money that we would much rather give in tax relief at work, for example. rather than giving in tax relief that it is precisely a parent who buys a home for his child or his children. Two weeks ago, we had a discussion on the corporate regime, in which the Minister of Taxation and the government set out to close a so-called gap in the corporate regime, where people who were employees could suddenly be company owners and thus be taxed lower than if they had been real employees. There was the argument, of course, that one had to look at this hole at all in order to preserve the company scheme, because the company scheme is a really good solution, so that people can provide some capital relatively cheaply to start up a business, but of course it is not intended that that scheme should go for people to pay lower income tax. In the same way, we do not think that the company scheme is designed to provide you with an accommodation which you can rent out to your children or, incidentally, to the neighbour's daughter if you want to. It was never intended to be a scheme where you buy a dwelling, which you can then rent on to a particular person or in time sell on to another person and then even to 15%. below market price. So we think it is unfair to those who pay full taxes, and we really think that a tax relief could be given better at work than maintaining these arrangements, so we in the Radical Left intend to vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223510	I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Søren Egge Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223513	I would like to express my thanks for the very objective and good support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223521	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223524	Then no one else has any brief comments. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223529	Thank you very much. While we are all talking about the enormous lack of housing for students, it is also thought-provoking that more and more homes in Copenhagen are being bought by parents. Here the parents'children can live, pay rent to their parents and receive housing support. If the apartment is suitable for it, and there are many apartments there, the young person can rent a room to another student and thereby get a larger part of the rent covered. And in this way, of course, there are fewer young people who need a place to live. That is quite right, as several rapporteurs have also said. Although it is of course wrong that you should be born of parents who are rich enough to buy a home for the children before you are in the lucky situation that you as a student can live in the heart of Copenhagen, SF is still with so far. However, the chain falls off when parent purchase is also covered by lucrative tax advantages to parents and later even to children. Anyone who has suffered on the coffin floor or a good free value can avail himself of the so-called company scheme, which provides a hatchable tax rebate. Of course, the scheme was originally intended for the owners of rental properties, but with parents buying it will be in the family. But not only that. The children can subsequently buy the apartment from the parents also with a hatchable discount. It is common knowledge that parents' purchases can also be translated into a considerable tax-free value. An apartment with a market value of 3 million. kr. may typically have a public property valuation of 1,5 million. kr., and if you get 15%. discount on top, that's $225,000, but as a child you have something that looks like a tax-free value of $1,725 million. kr. So there are not many parents who can just stab their cubs without the kids having to pay tax on it, but you can do that with this scheme. And even if it is the case that the tax minister's new property tax is being used, the same will apply. So, the same property for 3 million. kr. will by 20 per cent. discount, if you assume that both market value and public property valuation are the same, still give a hatchable discount of DKK 600,000. In this context, the tax rebates are therefore municipal funds for which the municipalities could instead have used to establish some more cheap study accommodation in Copenhagen, so that all young people could have equal opportunities to have a student residence in Copenhagen. We in the SF think this is common sense, and we therefore also hope that we can agree with the rapporteurs who have already said from the platform that there is a need to look at these exceptionally advantageous conditions for parents who can afford to buy a home for children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223826	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next in line is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523223838	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate. After all, I think that we should have debates that are moving forward and that will lead us to solve a greater part of the youth housing problem. I would like to thank the SF and the Alternative and the Radicals for supporting this proposal. When I listen to the debate, I can see that a committee procedure could lead to a clarification of certain aspects of the business system, and one could imagine that it would be possible to adjust the business system so that it would not apply if only one house was rented out under that scheme. Surely there must be a small limit to what it is that you can do business under. Then I would like to point out that the proposal is designed in such a way that it is forward-looking. It is therefore not retroactive; it is a proposal that will require the government to submit before 1 January 2018 a legislative proposal on the abolition of the tax advantages associated with parental buying apartments, including the possibility of using the corporate scheme and the return on capital scheme, as well as the abolition of the possibility for parents to sell a dwelling to their children at 15%. during the most recent public property assessment. It will also be interesting to hear in a committee whether what we are referring to, with regard to the 15%, is applicable. At least that's what I've been able to see on a website that's under SKAT. If things are going to change, I think it is right that we should examine it in committee. I find it difficult to see clearly whether we will be able to find a majority in favour of this in the report, but it is sometimes a process of achieving a majority, and I am listening to the fact that there are also considerations in the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party that what is going on out there is not optimal and that we have an obligation to solve some housing problems, so that all young people can have a safe course of study where they both have a study and have a residence. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224044	There is a brief comment from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224047	Now the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs from the proposing parties have repeatedly said that this is a very uneven arrangement. So is it the rapporteur's belief that all those who make use of this scheme belong to the upper class?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224106	Some studies have been carried out on who is using this scheme, and it is thus documented, both in terms of income and in terms of wealth, that the majority of those using this scheme are in the top part of the income scale. So there is a bias in it, and it is quite natural. If you don't have any money, it's kind of hard to buy a place for your kids. Of course you will find examples of some who have taken loans in their parcel house in order to have the opportunity to buy a home for their children. But it is a crooked system based on what can be seen from some of the studies that have been carried out, and I can see that the source here, for example. Danmarks Statistik. I guess it's got to be pretty reliable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224153	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224154	Does the rapporteur therefore think that those who buy a parent's apartment for their children are being antisocial?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224202	No, I do not think that they do, but I see no reason why there should be a tax advantage for them to want to help their child. However, where the anti-social aspect is concerned, if we do not have a political commitment to creating a society where youth housing is sufficient, then we will end up with the richest children who have the easiest chance of being educated in a city other than where they live. It's a bias that I don't think we can be served by.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224234	The next question is Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224236	Thank you for that and, first of all, thank you for raising the debate in the Enhedslisten, which I think is quite relevant. What I would like to discuss is, of course, whether this really is not a symptom treatment of a completely different problem, i.e. that there are not enough housing in our educational towns, but what is perhaps even more important is whether there is no need for decentralization of our educational structure. I think there's more logic in looking at it. For the reason that there is a shortage of housing is, of course, that we have put almost all education in the three largest cities, or perhaps it is four, if you bring them all together, and that of course makes it difficult to find accommodation for them. If we are now trying to decentralise our educational structure, as has been done in some other countries, could it not be part of this solution? Because the reason why parents buy homes for their children is not only the tax advantage, I think, but it is also because there is a lack of housing. So it's kind of a symptom treatment of the real problem that's out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224331	I have no doubt that when there are some tax advantages, it is even more advantageous to buy a home for your child, and it would be less attractive to do so if we change some tax advantages. However, it is a real problem that there are not enough housing in educational towns, and we would very much like to help solve this, and I believe that Copenhagen should also try to see it as a major Copenhagen problem and that it should perhaps be solved in cooperation between many municipalities. Because it is not only in Copenhagen that there is an increase over study places, but there is also in Frederiksberg, and there is also in Lyngby-Taarbæk at DTU. So there are several educational institutions which are not located in the City of Copenhagen, and that is why I really think that you should come together in the Copenhagen area and try to solve this problem and build more youth housing, not only in Copenhagen, but also in other municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224424	That's right, but there are two ways of seeing it. One is to build more homes, and we can ensure that there are more homes, possibly container homes, where the training courses are. But you could also choose to move the courses out, where the young people are and where there are also homes in advance. I have always wondered why the old Landbohøjskole is actually in the middle of Copenhagen, where there is no shadow of animals, but this is where you train veterinarians. Couldn't you just move it out of a place where it made more sense? That's the way it is with many educations, where I think it makes sense. Why is the dairy training in Odense, when all the dairies are largely located in West Jutland? So maybe you could do that another way. That does not mean that this is the only solution. But more housing or moving out education is perhaps more real, I think, rather than looking at this, which is perhaps more symptom treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224508	I can see that there could be pluses by having a more decentralized study structure. I will not deny that at all. I have just taken note of the fact that education institutions are under severe economic pressure, where it is probably advantageous to have large units. So it's going in the other direction. So perhaps the rapporteur should go to the government and say that there should be more relaxed conditions for smaller educational establishments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224537	The next question is Mr. Kaare Dybvad, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224539	Thank you to the rapporteur and also thank you for the final remarks. I very much agree that we have to find that way, but there was one thing that was said by the rapporteur at the outset and that I did not keep my eye on, but now it comes out again here, and that is the question of building more homes in Copenhagen and Aarhus and other large cities. After all, this is an ambition that the Social Democracy has always had and which Enhedslisten also had, that is, that cheaper housing should be built and that the housing that should be should be cheaper. However, can the rapporteur not explain to me how this is connected with the fact that next Friday we will be voting on a motion for a resolution from the rapporteur's party, which removes 260,000 square metres of building on Amager in Copenhagen, that is to say housing for ordinary people, a quarter of whom is supposed to be general construction? That is where the Enhedslisten will remove 260,000 floor meters of construction, and at the same time the rapporteur is standing here saying that you want more construction in Copenhagen. How can this be connected?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224641	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224642	It can be connected when you also have to take some natural considerations. I was at Amager not long ago and heard a good presentation from an architect who was trying to see whether it would be possible to imagine that some of the newly built areas in the area were being encapsulated, and he actually had some excellent thoughts about this could happen. So the building option that we want to abolish on the Amager Common, I can see that you could set up on other stamps out there. So there is no problem in saying no to building on Amager commons. For we are, in fact, open to the fact that the City of Copenhagen should be able to come up with other solutions, so that the building option was implemented in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224727	Is there a follow-up question? The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224730	Thank you. I find that very interesting. For the City of Copenhagen, which is responsible authority in this area, clearly says that you can't find 260,000 floor meters for construction elsewhere in the City of Copenhagen. Frederiksberg Municipality says that you have built everything you can, and many of the municipalities say the same thing. Is it not the height of hypocrisy when Enhedslisten in all sorts of debates, when there is an election campaign and when you have to flag with the red tabs, says more cheaper homes and always has it in his slogans, but that when it comes to giving concrete priority to young people, including those who do not have parents, who can buy apartments for them, and also people who have not been written up on waiting lists since they were a child, can get some real housing, among other things. on Amager, 260,000 square meters of construction, now stands and is against it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224821	I see no problem in trying to assess the natural values that are on a potential building site and becoming wiser and then looking at how to reprioritize and put those square meters somewhere else. I don't see any problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224837	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224851	The debate is open. I give the floor to the Minister of Taxation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523224915	Thank you, President. This evening we are debating a motion for a resolution from the Alternative on the reduction of VAT on fruit and vegetables. Specifically, the alternative proposes that VAT should be reduced from 25% as it stands today to 121⁄2%. on fruit and vegetables. It is not long since we discussed a similar motion for a resolution from the Alternative, namely B 69, which dealt with a reduction in VAT rates from 25%. 12%. on small repairs of bicycles, leather goods and textiles. Therefore, allow me to be a little brief, as the arguments for not introducing a reduced VAT rate go back, and it is perhaps not so surprising that they do so. It would be surprising if they didn't leave. So what are the arguments? These are, of course, the same arguments as when the motion for a resolution on small repairs was rejected. The Danish VAT system is, after all, characterised by the fact that all goods and services are initially subject to 25 per cent. VAT. Over time, changing governments have held on to this, and so there are many good reasons for doing so. And I believe that those reasons remain valid. What, then, are the reasons? It goes without saying that a single-rate VAT system is easier to administer than a VAT system with many different rates. After all, there are many who criticise the tax system for being complicated. I also think I have heard from the Alternative's tax rapporteur on one or two occasions that it has been pointed out that the tax system is becoming more complicated. There I have to say that differentiated VAT rates do not simplify the tax system. On the contrary, it is made more complicated. The ease with which a VAT rate is administered applies both to companies and to authorities, and the administrative problems with several VAT rates are due, among other things, to: problems of demarcation, given that there is greater uncertainty as to whether the product in question will now also be subject to the appropriate VAT rate. And administrative demarcation problems entail significant costs for business and also for authorities to ensure that the rules are complied with. What could it be? As an illustration, I can mention tomatoes. It is logical that fresh tomatoes should be included in the proposal, but what about canned tomatoes, dried tomatoes, dried tomatoes in oil, pured tomatoes, tomato concentrate, tomato salad and I can continue to do so should they also be subject to lower taxation? Where do you put the incision? And what is the professional justification for that cut? The increased costs of this administration will mean that a reduction in VAT will not be fully achieved by consumers, as companies will of course cover the additional administrative costs. A reduction in VAT on fruit and vegetables is also not a sensible instrument for promoting the consumption of fruit and vegetables. Why isn't it? This is because the reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables will largely benefit already existing consumption of fruit and vegetables. So there may be some vegetable traders who will be happy, but there is also some natural limit to how much fruit and vegetables are being sold and how much people can eat. This means that a reduction will mainly concern consumers' current consumption and thus only to a limited extent contribute to improving public health. This is not so good with the equality objective or equality weighting of the proposers. Now I have to find the right words, because this is a proposal that will be of great benefit to the wealthy consumers. It is they who have a high consumption of, among other things. organic fruit and vegetables, such as: will be part of the product group that will be included in this. In other words, the proposal for a relaxation is turning the heavy end down compared with the groups that belong more to those who are traditionally socially at risk. This will therefore only contribute to improving public health to a limited extent. In addition, a reduction in VAT will act as a price subsidy which is independent of the health of the product or the quantity in which the product is purchased. The same arguments apply if an improvement in the environment and climate is to be achieved. A price subsidy in the form of reduced VAT is not linked to the impact of the product on the environment and climate, which is why it must be considered an expensive way of improving the environment and climate. Differentiated VAT is therefore not the best or the most effective way of improving public health or the climate, which is, after all, a fair and legitimate view of the alternative and which they put forward in the resolution. In addition, the proposal entails an estimated annual financing requirement of 1.6 billion. kr. to be financed by other means. And the VAT revenue lost by the State because of a reduced VAT on fruit and vegetables will have to be collected elsewhere if the proposal is to be implemented. It may be on health, it may be on care for the elderly, it may also be through increased taxes, there are a number of options, but it must at least be financed. To sum up: the proposed halving of VAT on fruit and vegetables will not go through fully with the consumer; it will lead to major administrative problems both for business and for the tax administration and to an estimated financing requirement of 1.6 billion. kr., which will have to be financed by other means. And for these reasons, and certainly for a number of additional reasons, which I do not mention here because time does not allow it, the government cannot support the alternative's motion for a resolution to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225456	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225500	Thank you to the Minister for a thorough examination of the elements of the proposal. I agree that it is not to simplify that we are putting forward this proposal; it has some other reasons, as the Minister has said, namely that fruit and vegetables are both healthier for the individual and better for the climate. I do not know whether it was a question for the rapporteur here whether peeled tomatoes and sun-dried tomatoes should also be included, but the answer is: yes, they should. And this is not something we decide, but something that the European Union decides. Therefore, the whole group of vegetables and fruit with dried apricots or whatever it may be. The Minister also says that there are limits to how much fruit and vegetables we can eat. And there is probably enough, but the Minister must also recognise that there is a very large difference between the amount of fruit and vegetables, and the amount of fruit and vegetables that a family with a self-employed person and a family with an unemployed person eats. So I guess there's a potential for us to be healthier and make the climate a little better, including with tools like this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225615	Well, there is certainly, and I will tell you that I am very excited about fruit and vegetables and eat it myself. I like meat, too. I actually think that the combi is the best, that is, when you get some of it all and get through the pyramid, if you want. And I would like to support the fact that the Danes eat more fruit and vegetables and live healthier, but as I have said in relation to other resolutions from the Alternative and other parties, I think we should be careful to conclude that this is the best way to get it on. It may well be that the political path is the easiest, also the easiest, way to explain in public, but in implementing a proposal, I do not think this is the easiest and most effective way to ensure what the alternative wants. That's where I think you have to go other ways. I also believe that, as a politician, you have to recognise that whatever we do, it is very individual, what people eat and what people drink. And we shall not change that either; it is a choice that the individual must also make.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225717	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225719	Now I could be tempted to say that the Minister's party often likes something about incentives and that you can get people to do some things by using economic tools. This is where the price is reduced. You could also call it nudging or other things, in which people are indirectly forced to change their habits in relation to health. Does the Minister recognise that it could be a method and a way to focus a little more on prevention, so get ahead of it that we get so many sick people in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225801	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225802	Well, if the Danes consume much more fruit and vegetables, hopefully there is a health effect of it. But if you want to spend 1.6 billion. kr. I would say that I believe that this effect can be achieved more cheaply by other means: information, guidance. And nudging can of course be done through the tax system, but you can also do it in other ways. So I would say that what I can stretch to say is that the government agrees with the alternative that it would be nice if the Danes lived healthier but to do it this way we cannot see ourselves in, because that would not be the smartest way to get to the goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225844	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. The next speaker is Mr. Daniel Toft Jakobsen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523225855	Thank you. I would like to thank the alternative to this resolution, which, as has been said, is to halve the VAT rate for fruit and vegetables from 25%. is 121⁄2%. In the social democracy we have nothing against fruit and vegetables, on the contrary. The more good and healthy food we can get into our daily lives, the better it is. More fruit and vegetables will contribute to better public health and thus, ultimately, to the opportunities for all of us to live the good life that we want. So we share the desire that we in Denmark should eat healthy and also very fruit and vegetables. But when it comes to the specific motion for a resolution, we cannot support it. Firstly, according to the proposal, it costs a great deal of money itself about 1.8 billion. kr. a year. And secondly, if we needed 1.8 billion now. kr. further a year on our public health, we are far from sure that precisely this would be the best and most effective way of spending that money. According to the Prevention Commission referred to in the motion for a resolution, the effect of halving VAT on fruit and vegetables will only be marginal, which is why the Commission did not at the time recommend doing so here either. Thirdly, we are basically not in favour of a more complicated VAT system in Denmark. As the Minister of Taxation has also mentioned, there are major advantages in having a relatively simple and transparent VAT system where there are not all possible different rates for different types of goods. And we want to safeguard such a system, so for those reasons we in the Socialist Group cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230044	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230048	Thank you for the fact that the rapporteur agrees with us at least the purpose of this and the desire to make us all live a slightly healthier life. One of the things we can look at in relation to this is also inequality in health and, as I mentioned to the Minister before, there is a marked difference between how much fruit and green self-employed people eat and how much fruit and green unemployed people eat. Does the rapporteur recognise that this could help to change the habits of eating fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230136	Yeah, well, it can. Now I have just tried to read out the report by the Prevention Commission in preparation for this motion for a resolution, and if the analyses and forecasts contained in that study are correct, this will have a very marginal effect. As the Minister also mentioned, the Commission believes that it will primarily benefit those who already eat the most fruit and vegetables, and what they arrive at is that it will increase the average Dane's consumption of fruit and vegetables by 15 g per day, and that eating 15 g more fruit and vegetables than would otherwise have been done, from 0 years of age and throughout one's life, will lead to an increased lifetime of 8 days. That, then, is what the Prevention Commission itself says is a very marginal effect and not the best way to spend so much money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230242	It is true that these are the conclusions reached at least at the time in that report, but another example is that in 2015 Coop chose to reduce the price of all their organic vegetables and organic fruit, and their sales increased by 40%. on the commodity groups. So there is some kind of effect if you lower prices for fruit and vegetables. There is also the climatic part of it. Does the rapporteur recognise that this could have some positive climate consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230314	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230316	I recognise that it may well have some positive effects. All I'm saying is that based on the knowledge and experience that we have in this field, at least now, we always have to keep track of whether there are new experiences and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230340	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230352	As the Minister and previous rapporteur have said, this is about the option of halving VAT rates on healthy food, fruit and vegetables from 25%. to 121⁄2%, which must be said to be a change in the practice we have in Denmark, where we have what we call a unit VAT, where there is 25 per cent. VAT on everything, which has the advantage that it is quite easy to manage for both the authorities, but also for companies, i.e. that there is no administration. I think this is one of the drawbacks of this, because one can imagine that there will be some fraud. Another thing is that it is also terribly expensive. 1.8 billion kr. In the motion for a resolution, which we must say is quite a lot of money in relation to the amount of health that I think we are getting for it. All the apples, vegetables and potatoes that have already been bought, which do not lead to increased health, because people already have a good habit, are also getting a lower price, and so it costs a great deal of money. So that is only what you buy in addition to what has an effect, and frankly I do not think that it necessarily changes very much in people's habits. If you are a driver who drives into the service station or if you drive by train and go to the station and buy something for the trip, it may be that you can usually get 10 apples for 20 DKK, and if this is adopted, it will be 10 apples for 18 DKK. Will it make you buy the apples instead of the bag of candy or soda? I really don't think so. In advance, it can be said that water is basically free from the tap, but does it do so that people do not drink sodas? Water can hardly be cheaper, but people still drink away sodas. I am thinking that this does not necessarily have a very great effect. You could also speculate that if you bought the 10 apples for 18 kroner. instead of the 20 kroner, you spend the last 2 kroner. to buy a liquorice pipe when you're at the gas station, that is to say buy something unhealthy, or what is it you spend that money on? So I don't think it necessarily has a very big impact on the fact that it costs 1.8 billion. kr., which is a lot of money, and I don't think you get that much health for them either. I also think that there are some delimitation problems at all. I like it when I live over here during the week to go down and buy such a meal salad, which is very much green, but should it also be reduced to a lower VAT rate? It has to do so immediately, because it is filled with green and healthy things, but what if, for example, it is... is a dill dressing in, should not the lower VAT rate apply to the salad? This gives rise to some administrative demarcation problems for those who are selling it. I think it is obvious that potatoes should have a lower VAT rate, but what if they are potatoes cut into slices for fries, they should also have a lower VAT rate? I do not think it is the intention of the proposal to buy cheaper fries to go home and put them in the fry pot and fry them, because that is probably not exactly the health effect you want. So there are both some delimitation problems, and I also think that the effect of this is less than what you might expect, because vegetables are so cheap today. A bag of potatoes is quite cheap, compared to going down and buying a steak. So I don't think this has much effect, even though it is of course sympathetic that people should eat something more green. As the Minister also mentioned, I actually believe more that the way forward can be campaigns or other actions. I remember that some years ago there was a campaign called "6 a day', which meant that you had to eat six pieces of vegetables and fruit every day. Unfortunately, I do not remember the result in my head, but as far as I remember it had quite a noticeable effect. So I think there are other solutions that are better than spending 1.8 billion. kr. On this. That is not why we are opposed to it, because we are against it for the reasons I have already mentioned, which is always a question. 1.8 billion kr. is a great deal of money, and I would just like to refer to the alternative's plan, where it is not clarified what it is actually that comes instead of. Something called "Tal " is being pointed out to a better society, but what is it? Is the higher soda-water tax, is it higher cigarette tax, or what is it that finances it? We cannot see that from this proposal, and that makes it a little difficult not to say impossible to vote for if we were at last considering it. The Danish People's Party has only mentioned arguments against this way of doing so, so we cannot support the resolution. We kind of agree that people have to eat healthier, but we believe that information is better, because an apple is not something that ruins you, and you can go down and buy it for two or three kroner or whatever it costs. If an apple for 2 kroner is going to cost 1.80 kr., I don't think it necessarily means buying a lot of extra apples. So in these words, I must say that the Danish People's Party cannot support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230824	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230828	Both the Minister and the rapporteur have said that there are limits to how much fruit and vegetables we can eat. However, according to the Danish Health Authority, as is also stated in the comments, 46.2%. of men in Denmark have too low intake of e.g. fruit, and this applies to 18.6 per cent. of the women. According to the Prevention Commission, which was mentioned earlier, it will on average cause each Dane to eat 51⁄2 kg extra fruit a year if you do this by reducing VAT to 12.5%. Could it not be important in a prevention context to get people to eat more of it, and especially men apparently have a challenge to eat fruit and vegetables?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230920	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523230922	I have also read that it says that some of the Danes have too low consumption. But what might be interesting to find out is whether it is due to the fact that VAT is too high. And I don't think that's the reason. Well, let's take an apple that costs 2 kroner. Today. Is that so that they 46 percent? Is there a VAT rate which means 20 cents difference from what is being proposed here? I don't think I'm gonna get that 46 percent. to buy twice as many apples or start eating apples if they haven't done it before. So I think this is a very expensive approach to the effect it will have. 1.8 billion kr. is really a lot of money, and I don't think it's going to have a huge effect, and you might be able to get more health for the money with other measures than this one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231010	Thank you. Well, according to the Prevention Commission, which was mentioned earlier here today, it will cause us to eat an average of 5.5 kg extra fruit and vegetables per year. So it certainly has an effect that is healthy. But am I to understand that the rapporteur would like to take the initiative to do some more things, some other than this, because far too little fruit is apparently eaten, especially among men? Will the rapporteur be involved in other measures, because it does not work well enough as it is now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231046	I certainly think we can find a way to have a good discussion about it. I am a tax rapporteur, not a health rapporteur, so it would probably be more relevant to take it with my colleagues, but when we discussed it at our group meeting, we were actually very agreed that people should eat something more green for many reasons, among others. because it is healthier and because there is something environmental about it, but we just do not believe that it is the right tool, because it will be too expensive. It's a few ears you can save. A piece of fruit, a bag of potatoes or carrots is actually quite cheap today, so we just don't believe this is the right tool for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231116	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231124	Thank you very much. With this resolution, the Alternative wishes to require the government to reduce the VAT rate, as other rapporteurs have previously mentioned, on fruit and vegetables per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is proposed that it should be reduced from 25 per cent. 121⁄2%, which is the lowest possible rate in accordance with EU rules. I can follow the motivation to make fruit and vegetables cheaper for everyone and thus create better health for the Danes and reduce climate pressures. At the same time, however, we consider that the resolution will not have the effect that the alternative wants. After all, our VAT system is characterised by a single rate. The average Danish VAT is 25%. of the price of the goods. A system with a lower VAT rate on fruit and vegetables is both more complicated and more expensive to administer than a system with only one rate. And we already have a very complicated tax system with all the different excise duties in the world. It will also have an impact on both the companies selling the various goods and the authorities that check that the VAT rate should be applied to the right goods. And that will mean a great deal in particular to the retail trade. The objective of improving public health with the reduced VAT rate is not, in general, an effective approach. This will primarily benefit existing consumers, which means that to a very limited extent it will mean that people will actually eat more fruit and vegetables. Since we also know that those who eat a lot of fruit and vegetables are often the socially strong in a society, it will also be socially divided, because it will in particular be the socially strong who will then have a relief in tax. At the same time, the VAT reduction will be matched by increases in the pre-VAT price due to increased administrative costs for companies, and therefore the reduced VAT rate will not benefit the price and therefore the health of the Danes. That is why the Left cannot support the alternative proposal. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives and say that they cannot support the resolution either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231325	There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231327	I would just like to make one comment on what the rapporteur says about it being primarily those who have the most money and spend the most money on fruit and vegetables that it benefits. According to this Prevention Commission, it is true that they mention that it is clear if the price goes down and you buy a lot of it. But as I mentioned before, it is 51⁄2 kg on average that you will eat more a year. It's an average, it may be that some people get more, but the others eat more too. And actually, 87 percent want it. of the Danes that we lower VAT on fruit and vegetables. Apparently there's a desire for it in the population, so couldn't it be worth trying?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231417	Thank you. I do not believe that it will have the desired effect. In other words, there will be significant administrative costs. If you look at the cost of many of the very differentiated excise duties that we have, then they are essential. And we will also see increasing administrative costs associated with a more differentiated VAT system. So I simply do not believe that we will see the fall in prices that the questioner is expecting. In addition, I must also say that I would very much like people to eat healthier, but I simply do not believe that it is the price that determines it. If you go down to the supermarket, you will see that carrots are already significantly cheaper than Monopoly Mix. So why is it that all Danes do not buy carrots instead of Monopoly Mix? At any rate, the price is not the reason for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231500	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231504	Well, the reason we're suggesting this is because you kind of hit two birds with one stone: we can get people to eat more fruit and vegetables, and we can also think about the climate. After all, the climate impression for fruit and vegetables is considerably lower than the climate impression for meat, and what this report also shows is that meat consumption is reduced by increasing consumption of fruit and vegetables. So could it not be an argument that there is also a climate reason why we should do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231541	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231543	I simply do not believe that this has the effects on the price that the questioner expects. I believe that the administrative costs will be so much higher that it will not have that effect. And that is why I do not believe that one will change so much in relation to the Danes' habits. I have to admit so frankly that public health is by far the most important element; I think it would be nice if the Danes ate some more vegetables, but I just do not believe that this is the effective way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231609	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231615	Thank you. When there are such proposals here where, in terms of funding, reference is made to the fact that the alternative has a financial bill through which it is financed, then we do not see where the money is taken from, i.e. whether it is higher cigarette taxes or what it is. So we are not just voting in favour of such proposals. Then we think that, if we were to work with differentiated VAT, we could easily argue for it. You can make a cut where there are some basic foods that have a lower VAT rate. In France there is a differentiated VAT. In many developing countries there are schemes where everyone is guaranteed a certain amount of basic food at low prices in order to avoid hunger. You can do that. It is easy to operate that food is not taxed at the same level. I think it can be dealt with as well. In Denmark we also have zero VAT on stamps and newspapers, so there are some shops that are used to handling two VAT codes. Then there could be three, but it may of course be trouble to create. I do not think that is politically accurate enough, because it is all types of fruit and vegetables on which we want to halve VAT. So, in the Enhedslisten we have proposals that we want to reduce VAT on organic products. But this proposal from the alternative is a general reduction. That means, for example, that this is the case. is a product such as conventional oranges, on which we can almost give a poison guarantee because there are mainly chlorpyrifos on them, a brain poison that babies can be harmed by. So we see no reason to encourage the consumption of conventional oranges. So I do not think this proposal is politically correct enough for us to support it. As far as the diet and climate are concerned, it is really good to debate this proposal. If I had to spend 1.8 billion free. kr. I think we could make campaigns, and then I think we could reduce the cost of the diet in day care institutions and at school. And we could come up with a better offer of cheaper or free food in the institutions. It could go a long way for 1.8 billion. kr., and I think that would actually have a bigger effect. Then there are also some who have mentioned that you can run campaigns. Yes, there are also sometimes you actually do campaigns that hit people and where some adjust a little on their behavior. I'm not so impressed with the proposal here. It comes to the conclusion that if this is the case, the Danes will eat 15 g of fruit or vegetables more a day • 15 g. In fact, I believe that information campaigns could also lead to people voluntarily eating 15 grams of fruit and vegetables more a day without the Treasury having a loss of it. But I think it is really important to have the debate about our diets, because there are a lot of eating habits that are too bad and to get to eat less meat and thus have a less climate load and replace some of the animal diet with plant-based diets, that is very good. So in this way the alternative should be thanked for having tabled the proposal, but as it stands, we cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231952	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523231954	Thank you. Now the rapporteur mentions that this is not politically correct. I think that is what the rapporteur said. I mean, we would really like to say that we were focused on, for example. ecology. It is just not possible from the legislation that is in the European Union to go in and take a small amount of fruit and vegetables and focus on it. So we have made it so that it can be implemented; that is how we have formulated it. The rapporteur himself has raised this issue of beef. Because, as I mentioned earlier, the Prevention Commission says that if you eat more fruit and vegetables, you reduce the consumption of meat. And the climate pressure from beef is very high. After all, the Ethical Council has had to propose that a climate tax be made on beef, because only cattle account for approx. 10% of people's total climate gas emissions. Then the rapporteur could not recognise that if you could get people to eat 51⁄2 kg of fruit and vegetables extra per. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232103	I believe that more could be achieved if good information were provided on how to make healthy, nutritious, tasty meals with a little less meat. I actually believe that we could go further than spending 1.8 billion. kr. VAT reduction. Well, I actually think that if we're going to change diets, it's not just economy that counts; so it's like having a good food experience, that is, enjoying what you eat. I think that is more important than being told to eat 15 grams more fruit and vegetables a day.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232138	There is something that suggests that it is not only the food experience that applies when you look at how much fruit and vegetables you eat in different occupational groups. As I mentioned before, in a family with self-employed people you eat significantly more fruit and vegetables than you do in a family with an unemployed person. So couldn't it be worth trying to spend money trying to get people to live healthier and have longer and healthier lives, that is, by doing this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232209	Yes, but there are many ways to try to influence people in the direction of changing diets. It is not just a differentiated VAT that does so. I mean, I think that long-term information work could have a greater impact. So I don't believe that just because the Danes saw that there was a crown to save on a bag of potatoes, they would eat more potatoes for the steak. I don't think so. I think there's more to it. So this isn't just a quick fix that you can sort things out with. I don't believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232240	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more brief comments. And we move on to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232252	Thank you for that, President. I shall start by saying that we cannot support the resolution. Having said that, I would nevertheless like to congratulate the alternative for making a proposal which reduces the tax burden in Denmark, of course, depending on how it is financed. However, the fact that there is, after all, a focus on lowering some taxes and taxes, in this case VAT, is commendable. I would say, however, that if I had 1.8 billion. kr. to reduce the tax burden in Denmark by • and so we have, there is a great deal of room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. There are other taxes that I would rather lower, because there are other taxes that damage the economic progress of Denmark far more than VAT does. VAT is thus one of the least distorting taxes, if you like, as we have in Denmark. Nor do I believe that it is VAT as such that prevents people from eating fruit and vegetables. I just broke up before I went up on the platform, that you can buy 2 kg carrots for 12 kroner, and that it was about 1.50 kroner. cheaper I don't think would have the very big effect. So that is why we cannot support it. VAT is a relatively little distorting tax. There are other taxes which should be reduced first taxes which harm the development of wealth in Denmark far more than VAT does. I do not think it would have the very great effect on health in Denmark. It has been relatively cheap over time to buy fruit and vegetables, and when not everyone eats enough of it, it is enough because people have some other preferences, compared to what they like to eat. And I am not sure that this would change if VAT were reduced slightly. So we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232541	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232549	Thank you to the alternative for debating our public health and also for recognising, as I understand it, that tax can be an instrument for promoting a particular behaviour. I'll get back to that. We cannot support the proposal because we believe that 1.8 billion will be needed. kr. On something other than this. There are simply some things that we give priority to in the Radical Left. We see, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive. kr. to use them to ease the tax on buying fruit and vegetables. We have seen, like Mrs Pernille Schnoor, that it will probably have the effect that people will buy more fruit and vegetables. I read a study from the Capital Region in which it is expected that 20% will be bought. more fruit and vegetables, if any of the VAT is removed. So, of course, this will have an effect, but it will also be a tax relief which is given to people who already buy fruit and vegetables. So there will also be a large part of the tax relief that will not get so much out of it. All in all, however, we will not support the proposal because we would rather spend the money on something else. Then we think, like Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær also states that it is a little too loose to simply write that the funding is to vote for the whole economic plan of the Alternative. It is not a way of financing a very expensive proposal in concrete terms. I've been looking into this financial plan, and I can guarantee you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance, that it is certainly not a plan that reduces the tax burden. There are incredibly many tax increases, mainly some tax increases, which we in the Radical Left will see as some who want to increase contributions rates, give less loans to entrepreneurship and have other negative effects. There are also some good things in the Alternative's plan that we will be able to support, but simply to vote in favour of a resolution on fruit and vegetables and then to vote in favour of the whole of the Alternative's plan, in which there are also some elements with which we simply do not agree, we cannot. So we say no to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232821	There is a brief comment to be made on Mrs Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232824	Thank you to the rapporteur for recognising that this has an effect. I am rather sorry that the rapporteur did not immediately agree with our entire budget proposal. It would have been really, really nice if we could have gotten it too. It is clear that the way we argue here is just to say that we have actually indicated funding for it. So we are not fully explaining here in the comments how it should be done, but one of the things I mentioned earlier was that we, for example, should do so. proposes a climate tax on beef. When the rapporteur mentions this as having a wrong effect, could it be imagined that the group which then gets a little more out of the fact that we are lowering the price of fruit and vegetables might get rid of a little more on beef? So we have some other ways of indicating how to do it, so it goes straight up. However, I would just like to say that I am delighted that the rapporteur says that it could have an effect and has also been interested in seeing that it actually has a health effect for the population.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232932	Now I did not just note any question, but it is certainly true that when you look at the research that has been done, you can see that there will be an effect. Then you can discuss whether it is up to the amount of money. In any case, we would rather spend the money in many other areas in the first place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523232949	There are no more comments. Then we move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523233003	There are certainly many of us who could live much healthier, and unfortunately we also see in many studies that health has a social side. There are many reasons for this. So it's a really good idea to eat more fruit and vegetables in general. There's also these dietary advice called six pieces of fruit and vegetables a day. It can be six pieces of fruit, or preferably a mixture of fruit and vegetables. I therefore think that, however sympathetic the alternative's proposal may be, it is a little poor style to write in its comments on its motion for a resolution that, for example, it does. will mean 5,000 extra years of life... it's spread out on an entire population... or it means 5,000 pounds more a year. The fair thing is to say, it's 15 g a day. And 15 g a day is equivalent to a small boat of an apple. If you cut out an ordinary apple in small boats, each boat corresponds to approx. 15 g. That's okay. But it's 1.8 billion. kr. Worth eating another little apple boat a day? We do not think so from the SF. We fully agree with the intention, but not with the price, in relation to what we get from health. There are many things we would like to do in this area. One of the things that we agree with the alternative is that we need to have an emission-based tax on some of the things that really bear in our climate accounting, for example. meat. And I wish you could look at making a technically based tax that simply measured it in relation to the CO2 There is really, really high climate costs of the huge meat consumption we have. It's one of the biggest climate sinners in the world. I believe that this way, both in terms of health and, to such an extent, in terms of the environment and climate, would be another way to go. Then there is also the very boring tax argument, namely that it is a bad idea to start taking chunks of what we call the tax base. That's always the really boring argument. But if you start somewhere, you can say that the fruit and vegetable thing is sympathetic, so why not ecology, why not fair trade, why not study homes, why not art and culture? And you could go on. My own party has a long and colourful history in the debate on VAT. I could talk about that at a long time, but it's late, so I won't. VAT and taxes turn the heavy end down. If, for example, we do not know what to do. If taxes are raised because we think we should have the same VAT, then our basic principle is also that one should be compensated for one of the lowest-paid people in this country. For our charging system is one of the most unsolidarous things, which is why fortunately we also have a green check, and that way we could go further outwards. This is certainly something we think we should look at when, for example, we look at. I would like to raise taxes, but I fully agree with the intention of the proposal. We do not agree with reducing VAT. I believe that this is so much about the food culture that we have in our country, more than about what it costs. Well, here's a very short story. I grew up in such a place where there were a lot of low-income groups, but I am convinced that many of them spent much more money on food than we did at home with my mother, who was a bit of a health freak and who always bought seasonal vegetables, also because that was the cheapest, whereas many of the children I grew up with were given fast food and pizza. In fact, I was often quite jealous. But I am convinced that there is also a lot of food culture in this. The problem is that it often becomes a very, very elitist discussion when we want people to eat better, more climate-friendly, healthier, etc. That's too bad. But for all these reasons we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523233517	Thank you to the rapporteur. Negotiations around the Chamber are fine, but you have to keep your voice down a little bit, because it can be very pervasive, especially when there are not many people in the Chamber. Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523233540	First of all, thank you for the debate, and thank you for the fact that everyone, I think, has almost agreed with the aim, but perhaps just not in the way to the goal. I think that is very positive. Fruit and vegetables are healthier for the individual, and it is also better for the climate. I think we can all agree that we need to take action before patients become patients. In the alternative, we want more focus on prevention rather than treatment, and we want a serious sustainable transformation of Denmark, which is both in relation to the green and the social bottom line. For example, as we also presented in our draft budget, which has been mentioned sometimes here today, we want to redistribute from black to green, as we call it, and from rich to poor. We think it is possible to invest in the green area and increase equality in society. We want to make sound and green decisions easier to make, and that is one of the objectives of this proposal. This means that some things have to be more expensive, while other things have to be cheaper. And one of the things we want to do cheaper is live green. We have therefore proposed to make fruit and vegetables much cheaper, and quite specifically we have proposed to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables, i.e. to 12.5%. We're not the only ones to want it. The Danish people want it too. At the last survey it was then in 2014 there was 87 per cent. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Danish people who wanted us to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables. So there is a desire for it in the population. There are probably several reasons for this, because whatever we have discussed today, it has an effect, because the more fruit and vegetables we eat, the more it reduces our risk of cardiovascular disease, for example. If we reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables, the consumption of fruit and vegetables will increase in all target groups. And the most price-sensitive groups in terms of the consumption of fruit and vegetables are the families of young children. As I mentioned earlier, an example of how it works to reduce the price is that in 2015 Coop chose to lower their prices for organic fruit and vegetables. We cannot do that here in Parliament. We can't do that. We do not have the opportunity to focus solely on ecology. We can focus on fruit and vegetables. But in Coop, it had the effect that sales increased by 40%. on the commodity groups. In addition to the positive spills that this changed consumption will have on health, we will also be able to reduce the climate load. After all, the climate impression from fruit and vegetables is significantly lower than the climate impression from meat, and therefore the reduction in VAT is also expected to have a positive effect on the environment and climate. So, both for health reasons and for climate reasons, we believe, in the alternative, that we should reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables, and we still think so, and that is in spite of the debate here today, and despite the fact that we could not find a majority for it. It takes courage, and a serious sustainable transition is not free of charge. But we believe that we must have the courage to do so, and we are willing to invest politically in it. In those words, I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523233918	There are just a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523233923	Thank you. The resolution says, of course, and the rapporteur has also said many times that it would mean eating an average of 5.5 kg more fruit a year and, as Enhedslisten also said, it is 15 g more a day. I've been goingogling while we've been sitting here, and that's like three more grapes a day you eat, for a price of 1.8 billion. kr. It is said a lot about health and more sustainability and things like that, but it is limited, of course, how much health you get for three grapes a day. And how much meat do the three grapes displace? So, you usually eat much more green than a piece of meat, because there is another satiety factor in it. So are these three grapes a day that you believe make Denmark a completely healthy nation, or make sure that we are much more sustainable, so 15 g green a day?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234013	But there is no doubt that one must certainly take one small step at a time and that one will probably start by seeing a relatively small effect, and then, as some have said, we will also have to change a culture. Obviously it's a combination of some things and this doesn't do it alone. But I would say that whether it is three, four or five grapes a day, it counts when it is 5.5 kg a year. Well, it's 5.5 kg that we replace with something that was probably more unhealthy. This shows, at least, the studies that have been carried out: replaces the meat with more fruit and vegetables.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234052	Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234055	I fully agree that it is a matter of changing people's diets, but the question is whether this is the right tool when it is a price of 1.8 billion. kr. to get people to eat three more grapes a day. Could not, as Enhedslisten suggested, perhaps be free fruit in primary school or some campaigns. Well, there are other things that are better. One of the things that I also hope the alternative recognises is that there are some delimitation problems in this. How about a bag of fries? I guess it's not exactly what's most healthy because you go home and stuff them in the fry. But they are potatoes, so should they not have a lower VAT rate? Or how about a meal salad? I guess it needs a lower VAT rate. But what if there is some kind of dressing, should it not have a lower VAT rate? Well, there are clearly some delimitation problems that you get with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234136	I always think that whatever bill you make in this direction there will be some delimitation problems. I think it's an excellent idea with free fruit in primary school. So I'm not gonna rule out that there are other options than this. The reason why in the alternative we think it is very good is, as I mentioned earlier, that we beat two birds with one stone. We will increase health while focusing on the climate. We think that's important, and we think we can spend that amount on it, because it's two things we do at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234211	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234213	Thank you. The reason why we do not always do what we want when we make tax reductions is that the retail trade does not keep up. I mean, the savings that should have come are not being realized in the shops. If we say an apple costs 2 kroner, it should cost 1 kroner. and 80 øre with the VAT reduction. The price may then end at 1 kroner. And 90 cents, and then you can't feel the big one. When Coop's eco campaign really was battling a lot, it was of course on the basis that a large number of organic products are still significantly more expensive than other products, so that they simply lowered the price of them so much, had an effect. Their campaign had an effect and because they were the retail trade themselves, the reduction was not eaten up by a price increase at the other end. I think that was the real reason. After all, I think that Coop is doing it fantastic on many parameters, because they take responsibility for both ecology and health, and I think that is perhaps what it takes. Is the rapporteur not afraid that, in view of lower VAT rates, the lower price will be eaten up by higher prices?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234324	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234326	I recognise that there is a possibility of higher profit margins. I just think that there is a tendency to feel a certain amount of social responsibility and that is one of the reasons why Coop does it and that Netto now goes in and finances kindergarten, I have seen so that a kindergarten can get funded and sponsored organic vegetables. So it is because you feel a certain amount of social responsibility, and then it is probably because you know that 87 per cent. It is a good thing for the people to put prices down. We are also thinking in the area of grocery shopping that we want a good image, so I do not think that will happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234416	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234420	Now, the rapporteur says that the rapporteur believes that if prices do not fall, this is due to a higher profit margin. Has the rapporteur ever been out to see how to calculate the different taxes on food when you receive them wholesale? After all, it is they who import them into the country who have to calculate how much taxes you have to pay for the various foods. If you, for example, could imagine a salad mix with both nuts and salad, you would find that, depending on the types of nuts it was, there should be different fees. Has the rapporteur ever seen the complexity of the calculations involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234458	No, the rapporteur has not. Because I am the health rapporteur and I have not been able to calculate specific prices. I have a PhD from the Department of Marketing, so I know there are some advanced ways to calculate, for example. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I mean, it doesn't matter what. As I mentioned earlier, the European Union has had to define what we are talking about when we talk about fruit and vegetables, so I assume that it can be defined in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234535	Now the Tax Committee has in fact just been on a committee trip to see how to calculate these excise duties and how complicated a calculation it really is. That is why I can inform the rapporteur that there are different taxes on the different types of nuts, so if there are both peanuts and almonds in the meat and some of them may be salted, and some are not salted, then there are different taxes on them, and then there is also the salad, which then has to be a lower tax. It's not that they get some help from anywhere to calculate this. It is perhaps very natural that you try to get out and experience reality and see how things really work before you start to estimate that it is only profit, rather than that it is really costs that make it difficult to calculate it here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234613	I get a lot out in real life, and I've been working in Netto once. I've come out a lot in the real world, so I don't quite understand the allusion. I am aware that there are certainly some very advanced ways of working with it. I think you can do it in the retail trade. I do not see that this is what should prevent us from making such a proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234642	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Taxation and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170523234655	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 24 May 2017 at 12.00 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
