ParlaMint-DK_20171116100007	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 106 (Proposal for a law amending the Law of Greenland on certain games. Minister for Education (Merete Riisager): Bill No. L 107 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Employers' Educational Contributions, the Law on Allowances and Allowances for Carriage by Participation in Adult and Continuing Vocational Training and the Law on State Adult Training Aid. Pia Kjærsgaard (DF), Henrik Dam Kristensen (S), Kristian Pihl Lorentzen (V), Christian Juhl (EL) and Leif Mikkelsen (LA): Bill no. L 108 (Proposal for a Law on the establishment of a system of citizens' proposals for consideration by the Folketing). Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 34 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the provision of cheaper lending facilities for residential and commercial activities in outlying areas). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171116100113	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116100136	The debate is open. Mrs. Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116100152	Thank you. The aim of the bill here is to follow up on two more initiatives from the political agreement on gang package III, which we landed in the Social Democratic Party together with DF and the government in the spring, including increasing both the security of the rifle associations and ensuring better control of watchkeeping. The draft law amends the arms law so that the police, in addition to being able to control without a court order the premises in which gunmen's associations store weapons, will in future also be able to control other premises where gunmen's associations possess or use weapons. For example, it could be the shooting range, shooting grounds, or something else. With the murder of a police officer last year in Albertslund, it became clear that there is a gap in the law as far as gunmen's associations are concerned, and the proposal here corrects that. The draft law also contains another part which has been of such concern to us in the Social Democratic Party, namely the control of private security companies. Here, the right to refuse the approval of the appointment of staff in security firms is extended to all conduct which gives rise to the presumption that the person concerned will not exercise his duties as a guard in a proper manner, regardless of whether the conduct has been deported within the profession or outside the profession, i.e. during the watch shirt or while it was taken off. It could, for example, be a gang member or others who, in this way, can no longer be accepted as guards, because one simply cannot be a member of a gang and go around creating insecurity when one is not wearing the watch shirt and then at the same time holds the job. At present, the emphasis can only be placed on behaviour which has been shown in the position or in the profession. To the last part of the proposal, I would say that it is a little incredible that one should fight so long for something that seems so simple. Better late than never but I think it has taken a very long time to get that part right. It is more than two years since I first raised the issue with the former Minister of Justice. Of course, the current Minister for Justice must be praised for having responded to that, but it seems so obvious that one should not, of course, be a gang member in leisure time and act as a guard standing out in front of Matas as his employment. At the same time, we in the Social Democratic Party would like to see the training of private guards tightened up. We would like the training to be extended from the few weeks it is today, as it will equip the guards better to look after their jobs and, at the same time, will also cut off a number of groups of people from their duties, i.e. a number of people who can be discussed as to whether it is appropriate to be guards. In Odense we have heard examples of gang groups sitting on large parts of the guard market. This has meant, for example, that they have been able to control discos, cafes and other things and threaten the places in question to use certain security companies, but they have also been able to check that no one from rival groups came in, or certain women who were not allowed to enter the cafes or discotheques in question. So we think it is time we tighten up and we also think we can tighten up even more. But we can support the very substance of the proposal on the part of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116100539	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116100552	The proposal we are debating today is the result of the gang package that we, together with the Social Democracy and the Government, have entered into in the early summer. The proposal contains two parts. The first part provides for the possibility for the police, without a warrant, to carry out checks on parts of the shooting associations other than what may be direct club facilities. Shooting lanes are a good example. We think that is very sensible. We do not see this part of the proposal as particularly controversial. We actually see it as common sense that the police obviously have the opportunity to get out and do this control if you want to. What is crucial is that safety is at its top when it comes to dealing with these firearms. We all have an interest in this, just as we have an interest in the fact that these weapons do not fall into the wrong hands. So, of course, we can support that part of the proposal completely without further ado. The second part of the proposal concerns the approval of guards and doormen. It is also a very good initiative, which must ensure that gang members do not have any opportunity to enter these industries. I think it is absolutely essential to ensure that, if they are gang members, they should not, of course, be on the one hand running around as gang members in leisure time and, on the other hand, be able to work as guards and doormen. That's why it's good that you give it a wider overflight when you hire these people and that you get the opportunity to block them. So that part of the bill can also be fully supported by the Danish People's Party. We appreciate the gang package we made, but I also think it's important to stick to the fact that we have to keep focusing on this area. Over the past year, there has been a great deal of focus on combating biker gang crime, and I think it is absolutely crucial that we stick to it, that we continue to stress the gangs, and that we do not sit down and think that now we are done, because we have made a gang package that we have finally had through the Parliament hall and adopted. We have to keep focusing on this area, because we can't stand it, and we don't have to stand by people shooting in our streets and making the Danes uncomfortable. We cannot be served by that, and therefore it is also crucial that this is not the last element, but that we continue to do so. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116100820	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116100827	Thank you. It is easy to spend Parliament's time repeating what everyone else has said. I can say briefly that I fully agree with what the two previous rapporteurs have said. The efforts we and, above all, the government and the Minister of Justice have made over the last year in connection with gangs must not stop, nor must they stop, because there may not be as many bullets in the air as there have been and thank God for it. We must continue, and we do so, among other things. by implementing the gang package previously adopted by a large majority in the Folketing. A few of the proposals from the gang package are those that we must then deal with today. The first proposal is an amendment to the arms law. This is a change which allows the police to control not only the premises of the rifle associations, but also the places where the rifle associations hold and use weapons, for example on shooting range, etc. etc. It is all in the profitable hope of gaining greater control over the fact that the gangs do not come to these weapons in one way or another. It is, of course, a proposal which the Left can fully support, just as we supported the gang package's initiatives one hundred percent. The second part of the proposal we are dealing with today is the proposal on guards and watchkeeping. It is, of course, the case today, according to the Watchtower Act, that the staff of a watchdog must be approved in accordance with rules which are also laid down in Article 7 of the Law, and in those rules it is stated that the acceptance of an appointment of a watchdog in a watchdog may be refused if the person concerned has behaved in a position or profession in such a way that there are grounds for believing that he or she will not be able to carry out his duties as a watchdog in a proper manner. That is to say, according to the rules that apply today, it requires that what the person concerned can be blamed for not being watchful must be a behavior that he has displayed in his position and profession. That is what we are now going to change, so that it is all the behaviour of the person concerned that must be included in the assessment of his ability to be vigilant. As I said earlier, it should not be the case that you can be a gang member in your spare time and then at night stand guard. Now, therefore, it must be a total assessment of the behaviour of the person concerned. So it is also a proposal which the Left 100 percent can endorse.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116101112	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's a new rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116101121	After all, this proposal is about amending the arms law so that the police's ability to control premises where gunmen's associations store weapons is extended to premises where gunmen's associations possess or use weapons, including the shooting range and shooting grounds of the gunmen's association. And the second half of the bill is about amending the law on watchkeeping, so that the possibility of refusing to approve the appointment of staff in security companies is extended to all conduct that gives reason to believe that the person concerned will not perform his duties properly. The unitary list may support both parts of the proposal. It is, after all, part of the gang package, which consists of a large number of proposals, and in which we disagree with many of the parts, which we think is a wrong way of tackling the gang dispute. But there are also many parts of the gang package that we are in favour of, and these are two of them. In fact, we thought it very important that in the negotiations there were some restrictions on shooting clubs, and we would have liked the working group set up as part of the gang package to look at the storage of weapons in private homes also to deal with the shooting clubs in the same round. There was no mood for this in the negotiations, but it is a good thing that these austerity measures have been put in place. I also think it is worth noting that the comments on the bill say: "It should also be noted that, in cooperation with the main organisations for the shooting, the safety of firearms will be specified in relation to the use of firearms in associations, etc. I just liked to hear from the Minister for Justice whether the Minister for Justice would not like to involve the Danish Parliament in what kind of dialogue there is, because from our side we think that the whole question of better arms control is crucial in terms of arms flowing to the gangs. So the more weapons control we can get, the better. And we know that there are weapons around Denmark coming to the gangs. So, in our opinion and in our view, there is the possibility of further tightening up. But these are two good suggestions here, and Enhedslisten can support both of them. That is why we support the draft law as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116101350	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116101357	Thank you for the floor. The legislative proposal we are debating now, L 67, is another initiative arising from the biker and gang package, which is called gang pack III on a daily basis. And I would like to start by saying that I agree with the rapporteurs who have said that, although it is good that we have gang package III, we should not rest on the laurels for that reason. There is still something that needs to be done, and I may also think that I am not saying so much because I am a politician, as because I am a trained sociologist that there is actually a need to look at the very criminal way of life that thrives in parallel societies and how there really is such a deeper dynamic in the particular criminal way of life. After all, there is something about the so-called ceasefire agreement that suggests that we are facing a kind of social dynamic in the gangs here that we do not know from previous bicker gangs. The substance of the bill is that the arms law will be amended so that there will be an opportunity to carry out checks on gunmen's associations without a court order. This has always been the case, but it will also include premises where weapons are possessed or used. This has proved necessary after the murder of a policeman in Albertslund last year, so it is important that we create more security there and that is basically a manifestation of common sense. The law on watchkeeping will then be amended so that recruitment procedures can refuse the approval of security personnel who are in one way or another associated with criminal environments, i.e. bikers and gang groups. I agree with what has been said before, namely that it is surprising that it has taken so long to get this view across, because what it corresponds to is, in fact, a kind of decorum requirement, as there are many other places, that is to say, that you have to have decorum when you are a watchman. We believe in the Liberal Alliance that Danes should be able to feel safe everywhere, no matter where they live and move, and therefore it is of course crucial to get rid of the gangs. At the same time, these measures are measures which are based on common sense and which promote common sense, and we cannot, of course, be opposed to that, so we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116101636	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116101644	Thank you. This bill, L 67, deals with two different issues. The Minister of Justice will change the law so that in future the police will have more opportunity to control the handling of firearms by the gun associations and, in addition, the Minister will, with the bill, equalise the requirements for the appointment of guards with the authorisation of a doorman. I would like to start by saying that a lack of safety and control of firearms can have fatal consequences if they fall into the wrong hands. We can see that we have a shooting at home, and last year, unfortunately, we also saw a police officer being shot and killed in Albertslund. So any action that increases the safety and control of firearms has the support and support of the Alternative. We do not want a society in which people can easily access weapons, and that is why we also welcome the Minister for Justice's bill and administrative changes to the rules in this area. The bill allows the police to control the premises where gunmen's associations possess and use weapons. It can, for example, be done. be shooting range and shooting range. Today, the police can control the premises where weapons are stored. From now on, the police will be able to control security during open house events, as it is called, in gunmen's associations. So we are particularly pleased that all gunmen must have the consent of the police in order to have weapons handed over. Then there is the second part of the bill which deals with the difference in the rules between the authorisation and the appointment of guards in security companies and the authorisation as a doorman. As the rules currently apply, an applicant may be refused authorisation to be employed as a watchman and the refusal may be justified by the fact that the applicant has behaved in his or her post or profession which gives reason to believe that he or she is not able to perform his or her duties properly. In other words, the rule as it stands today only allows the emphasis to be placed on acts which have not resulted in criminal prosecution when authorisation as a watchman is refused. This requires, however, that the conduct be displayed in a position or profession in order for this rule to apply to watchmen. The same rules apply to authorization as a doorman, but there is no requirement here, however, that the conduct be displayed in the job or acquired when the authorization as a doorman is refused. The Minister for Justice's bill will abolish the requirement for conduct to be displayed in the position or duties of watchman, which means that guards and doormen will be placed on a forward-looking level. We think that's a good idea. It is a gap in the legislation that will close us down, and thus the alternative fully supports both parts of the legislative proposal. However, we have asked one question. We have put this to the Minister in writing, and it is about what it means to be associated with the criminal environments. And that is really only to clarify it, so that you have more easily manageable legislation afterwards and will not be in doubt about what it means to be associated with the criminal environments. So, of course, we will have an answer from the Minister on that before. But we are all in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116101956	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102003	As our legal rapporteur cannot be here today, I must announce, on behalf of the Radical Left, that we can also support this bill. We think it is sensible to extend the existing possibilities available to the police in order to control premises where gunmen's associations store weapons, simply in view of the fact that there have been examples of firearms from gunmen's associations being involved in the gang conflict. Similarly, we welcome the extension of the possibility of refusing approval of a job in a guard company. However, we would also like to make sure that, in the committee's proceedings, we clarify what may be the basis for a lack of approval and what opportunities people have to complain about such a lack of approval. And it is simply to prevent the possibility of depriving an authorisation from being used too widely, for example. do not cut off all young men from a particular residential area from being approved as guards.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102107	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102115	SF is not part of the settlement of the gang package, and this is primarily due to the fact that we are not part of the funding, but this specific bill can be supported by the SF. It is good to clean up the guard business, where it is quite untenable that a person can behave menacingly during the day and in the evening, for example. work as a doorman. And it is also good that we are now getting something tightened up in the face of rifle clubs and where they are shooting, namely on the rangers.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102147	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102156	The content of the draft law has been reiterated by several rapporteurs, including: to allow the police in future without a court order to enter and carry out checks on premises where gunmen's associations store their weapons. From now on, it will also be in shooting range and shooting range. We think this is an excellent initiative. In addition, the law on watchkeeping is amended so that more attention is paid to the staff employed in security firms. The hearings are positive, and there is an initial good cooperation with the gunmen's associations. So all in all, these are sensible initiatives that we in the Conservative People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102247	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Justice Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102255	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive statements and the positive reception of the draft law. It is part of the gang package that the government agreed to with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party. This bill is then a follow-up to that deal. And I am very pleased to note that there seems to be support for the government's proposals to amend the arms law and the watchkeeping law from all sides of the House; I am very pleased about that. We sometimes get criticism that the legislative proposals are being bundled and packed too much. Here we have dealt with a proposal on residence bans in the past, and now we are dealing with a proposal on these two issues, and I am very pleased that this means that more parties will support it. It is basically a question of ensuring a safer society. Nowadays, without a court order, the police can carry out checks on the premises where the gunmen's associations keep their weapons. And with this bill, we are, of course, extending the police's ability without a court order to carry out this control to include premises where the gunmen's associations possess or use weapons. This means that the police will be able to check whether shootings are properly conducted and whether the associations have responsible procedures for the extradition and handling of weapons. In addition, we are working with the gunmen's organisations to establish detailed guidelines for the safety of the handing-over and use of firearms in the gunmen's associations, so that we reduce the risk of weapons falling into the wrong hands. And in general, I welcome the constructive approach that has been taken in that dialogue. As announced in the bill, we will be sending an amendment to the weapons order in a hearing in one of the next few days. That is where we propose that in future members of the gunmen's associations who need access to weapons should be approved by the police. We do this in order to ensure a high level of security in the area of firearms and gunmen's weapons. This must not least be seen in the light of the terrible murder in Albertslund in December 2016, when a policeman was killed with a gun stolen from a gun association. In the second part of the proposal, we propose that the police's access to refusing approval of the recruitment of staff in security companies should be extended. Nowadays, the police alone can place emphasis on conduct that has been displayed in a position or profession, that is, while the guard is on duty. With the proposal, we propose that any information on behaviour that would lead to a lack of confidence in the proper performance of his duties should be included in the police's assessment. In this way, we will ensure that the police can include information on, for example. belonging to the biker gang environment, and it makes real sense, as I see it. I will ensure that we get the answers quickly to the questions that have also been raised here. And, of course, it will be about whether you have a connection with the gang environment or whether you have committed some kind of crime that is within that framework. We will come back with answers to that. Overall, we are getting tightened up in a way that ensures a good balance between different considerations. And as you can see from the positive consultation answers, the gunmen's organizations and the watchmen's industry are also in favour of the bill here. So I look forward to further consideration and I am, of course, available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102625	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102648	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116102721	The legislative proposals here, which I will deal with together, include impact changes resulting from the Data Protection Act and the Data Protection Regulation, as well as the application of the Media Liability Act to publicly available information databases. The reason why we are dealing with the proposals here today is because, in January 2012, the European Commission proposed a data protection package. The package was finally adopted in April 2016 and consists, inter alia, of: of a general EU regulation on the protection of personal data, which will apply both in the private sector and in the public sector. This Regulation shall enter into force on May 2018. As the Regulation has direct effect in Denmark, Denmark is obliged to adapt Danish legislation in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation with effect from 25 May 2018. And that is why we are discussing the proposal here today. As I said before, the aim of the draft law is to implement a number of impact changes to Danish rules so that they comply with the EU regulation on the protection of personal data. A large number of Danish laws contain references to the Personal Data Act, and these references must therefore be adapted to the Data Protection Regulation and the new Data Protection Act. In addition, there must be a change in the Danish rules governing the processing of personal data. On the part of the Social Democrats, we do not see any reason to question the concrete changes. We have had a technical examination in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of the amendments, where there were some ambiguities and where, among other things, there was some confusion. some of the consultation parties pointed out some ambiguities, the Ministry has responded very well to them and also specified the notice. That is why we believe that the criticisms that have been made have been met. Where we are sceptical on the part of the Social Democratic Party, we are particularly concerned about sanctions for public organisations and organisations. We believe that there must be consistency when public organisations do not properly process citizens' data. Of course there is. However, we are concerned that large fines for an elderly administration, for example, which has not stored data properly, will end up going beyond home help to the weakest in society. So that part we would like to ask the Minister of Justice to be very precise on in the guidance to the authorities. I have heard this during the technical examination in committee that the Minister will also be so that, on the one hand, of course, we ensure that the authorities understand the seriousness of storing and processing citizens' data properly and that there is a consequence, but, on the other hand, it does not end up harming children, the elderly and the disabled when there is an administrative staff member who has failed and sloppy. With these words, we in the Social Democratic Party can support both proposals, both L 68 and L 69.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116103044	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116103053	Thank you. We are now dealing with L 68 and L 69, and it is of course a proposal for a data protection law that intends to replace the Personal Data Act. Although the proposal seeks to replace the Personal Data Act with the regulation and this proposal, it is, strictly speaking, well-known rules which are being continued, but new only in new law. There are, of course, changes, just as there are elements to which I would also like to attach a few words. For, of course, we all have a very great interest in our online personal information being properly and safely processed by public authorities, but also by private actors. We must be able to be safe, and our sensitive information must, of course, be well taken care of. If we adopt what is here, it will in future be possible to punish public authorities for breaking the rules, just as private operators will be able to be penalised and fined. And that's one of the things we're going to dive further in the course of the treatment. Because if that is to be an option, there has to be some reasonableness in it. Let us take an obvious example: there is a small municipality that breaks the rules, and the result will be that the municipality will have to pay a fine because people at the town hall have not been careful enough. But in the end, it will be the citizens of the municipality who will have to cover this fine either through higher taxes or through reduced welfare. It's a dilemma. For, on the one hand, the security of data needs to be tightened up, so that is why the behavioural regulation effect of the proposal is good in relation to public authorities. On the other hand, it is not the most reasonable thing for taxpayers in a municipality, for example, which has nothing to do with the matter, to put their backs on the consequences that it wants. So we need to discuss more carefully in the Committee on Legal Affairs how we can do this properly and well and make it work. Another thing we have noticed is that you will actually continue along this path, that you will meet that very many private people want to know the full CPR number when buying different services and services. And we are actually rather sceptical about this, because we do not believe that it will result in better data protection for ordinary Danes. The effect will probably be the opposite. So that is also some of what we need further clarification and talk about. Then there is the whole consideration of the possibility of group actions, if some may feel offended, and in the proposal the Ministry of Justice insists that one does not want to give it this opportunity. We are also sceptical about this, because there could of course be some perspectives in that very possibility, and so we will also ask the Minister in writing about that part. That is one of the points that has been made in the hearings. When it comes to children and young people, it is proposed that you should be 13 years old in order to be able to pass on your information, or else you should be given the consent of the person or persons who have custody. There we really think that the Ministry will come up with a very good, pragmatic solution, so we can easily support that. There are many good tactics in the proposal here, but I also have to say that it is an overwhelming material that has been put forward. It is incredibly complex and I therefore hope, of course, that the Ministry will also make itself available to answer the many questions which I actually believe there is to be exactly the proposal here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116103433	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116103441	Usually I have the bill that we're dealing with here on the platform. I do not have that today, because they are quite full-bodied, and that is of course also an important issue in terms of data security. There has also been a very thorough work ahead of the legislative process that we are addressing now. For it is clear that when it comes to sensitive personal information, yes, it is something that affects us all, so that there must be a high level of protection of our personal data. And today's reality is that mistakes are made in handling sensitive personal information, so the consequence is potentially much greater for those affected, because in a digitised age things are spreading much, much faster and can also be difficult to delete again. Therefore, it is of course important that the legal basis is updated and takes into account the situation we are now in. Because, of course, it is quite, quite complex when we talk about data protection. It is difficult to deal with legislation, but it is also for companies and public authorities, because of course, as politicians, we must ensure that the personal data of the Danes are protected in the most reassuring way; it is basically crucial in a digital society. As the previous rapporteurs have explained, this comes back from the data protection package, which was adopted in the European Union last year, and which consists of a general regulation on the protection of personal data, which will apply in both the public and private sectors. The regulation lays down the broad lines of personal data protection, in particular: requirements for so-called privacy by design, mandatory data protection advisors and a number of IT requirements as well as higher fines. As has already been said, yes, the objective of L 68 is therefore to ensure that Danish legislation is in line with the regulation and put into practice the things that need to be clarified in national legislation, which is why the regulation makes room for this. We could say a great many things about this; I will confine myself to mentioning a few elements in relation to the question of age limits for children's consent to the use of information society services addressed to children. Here the EU rules provide a national leeway between 16 and 13 years of age, and then the Danish side can see in the consultation responses and after a thorough dialogue with relevant parties • broad agreement that the age limit of 13 years is quite reasonable, because it is important that children and young people also make use of the digital opportunities and that they already have a critical sense of how to act digitally early. A legally high age limit would certainly also have the consequence that some would probably find it relatively difficult to see what is reasonable in it and therefore found their own way of circumventing the age limit, whereas the likelihood that it will also be effective in reality is much greater if we provide a broad-based regulatory framework. There are also provisions on restrictions on certain rights for reasons of public security. It also seems that a reasonable balance has been found there. The last part I want to spend some time on is the provision on punishment to public authorities that violate the rules. There has been much discussion about how it should be handled, especially in relation to public authorities where it is determined nationally, whereas for private companies it is set out in the regulation. However, this is something that has been discussed for a long time in the Folketing. There was a unanimous judicial committee during the last parliamentary term which was concerned that there should be equality between public and private in relation to sanctions when there is a breach of the Personal Data Act. In the draft law sent by the government in consultation, the issue was unresolved, and there have been clear reports during the consultation phase. I think that it has been thoroughly worked on and that it has been done quite sensibly, because, of course, sanctions and fines must also be imposed if public authorities violate the rules. For I would say that a citizen who experiences the leaking of sensitive data is no less offended by the fact that it is a municipality that leaked the information compared to if it was a bank. That is why there must also be parallelism and consistency in sanctions. And that is where fines of 2 and up to 4% can now be imposed on the public authorities. of the operating authorisation of the authority concerned, with a maximum amount of 8 and 16 million. kr. It is not, of course, because we have any desire to impose fines on private or public authorities, but as the Data Protection Agency writes in its hearing answer, there are examples of public authorities who repeatedly • and despite the objections • have committed violations of the Personal Data Act. And I take it as a very good witness of truth when the Data Protection Agency says there is a need for a tougher tool than what we have today. And then it makes very good sense that the penalties that exist will also apply to public authorities. As I said, it is not for the purpose of imposing fines, but it will, of course, have the clear preventive effect that poor treatment of citizens' sensitive information can affect both private and public actors in the budgets. The aim, as I said, is not to pay the fines. The aim is to ensure that the law is observed and that citizens receive the protection of their data which they can rightly expect. The second legislative proposal we are debating, L 69, is then an amendment to it, namely to repeal the existing rules as a consequence of the regulation. I shall not tire unnecessarily of a long technical review of all that and, as I said, I have not gone through all the many elements. Basically, however, it is also a wish to continue the current legal situation and the rules and practices which have been in force and which are known to companies and authorities and which are basically intended to ensure a high level of protection of personal data. So basically, it is quite sensible Danish follow-up to an EU regulation that is of great importance for data protection, and we of course pay tribute to that on the Left side. We must take good care of citizens' information, as must private companies. There will be a quite reasonable regulatory basis for this, and also some sanctions, so that the seriousness of the rules being enforced is clear to all actors. So, of course, we support the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116104225	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, who I can't find. It's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116104243	Yes, sir. Rune Lund in a slightly shorter version today. In recent years we have been able to see how a great many IT scandals, both in public and in private companies, have resulted in the leaking of ordinary citizens' information. It is university students who have experienced their CPR numbers being passed on; it is ministries which have not had sufficient security about the data they have. And one of the scandals that I think many of us remember is how millions of Danes' cpr numbers ended up being sent to China on two unencrypted CD-ROMs. Obviously, this must not happen, because then citizens cannot be confident that our information will be secure when authorities and companies have it. And that is why it is so important that we tighten up these rules on data protection so that these big mistakes can't happen; that we basically think about how we set up our systems so that we don't store more information about citizens than is necessary and that the material is removed once it is no longer needed, and so that we are absolutely sure that the security of the storage of this information is in order. That is why I must say that I am very, very pleased with the proposal that is before us. This is really something that will tighten up data security. I think that the EU legislation, that is, the regulation on which it is based, has simply become surprisingly good. I'll tell you what. We are actually incredibly excited in the Enhedslisten that these tightenings will take place in the field of data security. So it's really good. We can, of course, support this proposal and vote in favour. Having said that, there are a number of ways in which it is chosen to implement this in Danish legislation, which I still seem to be debating here in the legislative work. First of all, I would like to say that the Ministry of Justice has actually responded to many of the hearings and what we have also said on the part of the Enhedslisten and the Legal Affairs Committee, namely that it is important to impose fines also on public authorities that do not comply with the data protection rules. I think it is very good that the government is also saying that this is not only for private companies, but also very much for public authorities is extremely important to focus on. And I think it also means that we have to have penalties and sanctions. It is clear that, at the same time, we must also incorporate very good support, help and guidance in order to put this right. That is the goal for all of us. That is why I am also pleased to see that the Data Protection Agency is also being given more funding in the Finance Act. Of course, I think it is essential to ensure that they are still given enough money to solve the huge amount of tasks they will have in the future. So that is something we also need to pay close attention to. However, it is very good that public authorities are also being given the possibility of punishment here. Then it is still gone, I think, some uncertainties as to whether this law does not unnecessarily extend the scope for private companies to register CPR numbers in relation to existing ones. That is something we will ask follow-up questions about in order to clarify. I think it is essential that we try to limit how much cpr numbers can be demanded around, just because you have to sign up anywhere, I would have liked to say, for example. if you want to go to sports or something. I also think that in a Danish context there is still a hanging party in general, in that the cpr number is very uncertain to use as identification. A unanimous Committee on Legal Affairs has also said in the past that here is something behind which we must be very, very aware in a Danish context, and which I would like to see us from a collective Parliament working on, so that we can have the whole cpr system reviewed, because it is quite fundamental for our data security Denmark. But this is by no means an obstacle to doing so, so I think we can easily adopt it. It is, of course, very important that in this proposal too there are thoughts about privacy by design, so that you think about how to ensure privacy and this information when you make the systems. And I am also looking forward to there being a guide on what will be in it soon. If we can see it or if we can have a little peek at some of the things before we complete the law, that is very good, I think. That is one of the issues on which we will in any case also be asking some follow-up questions. Then, from the Consumer Council Think, the Institute for Human Rights and the IT-Politics Association, there are some consultation answers, such as: points out that it seems strange that parts of the Danish Parliament's work were excluded and that parts of the Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service had also been excluded. It can also be written and done in a different way, and I think that is essential that we also have a discussion. Better rights can still be created in terms of gaining insight into what information is recorded about you, in other words, that you as a citizen have better opportunities to gain insight into it. I think that the Institute for Human Rights also has an excellent principle. They point to all the adjustments we on the Danish side make when we interpret how this EU legislation is and implement it, and they say that we on the Danish side should start from the point of view that if we can stretch it to increase the protection of citizens and citizens' information, it is very good, but that we should not go in that direction if it is like relaxing a little on data protection rules in order to perhaps sometimes make it a little easier. I think that is a fine principle too. So, overall, I have to say that we in the Enhedslisten can support this, but there are some things that can still be improved a little, and I hope we will have the opportunity to do so in the course of the legislative work that is coming now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116104951	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116104959	Thank you. After all, data protection is not just legal certainty, it is also possible to look at recent newspaper headlines, large-scale politics, where the political process in different countries is disrupted by data security breaches. That is why, for all possible reasons, it is a good thing that we are now strengthening data security and protecting personal data. Because that's what we're doing with these two laws, L 68 and L 69, which we're dealing with together, they contain a whole lot of different elements that together protect personal data. After all, the starting point for the two legislative proposals has already been examined several times, so I will not do that again, and it is of course the European Commission's data protection package that Danish legislation now needs to be adapted. There are simple things that I would like to address in relation to the legislative proposals, and that is the whole question of there being provisions on penalties for breaches of the data protection regulation, which also concern public authorities. I cannot help noticing that it is based on an assumption that punishment works, it is something that we do not always agree on here in the Folketing, but in this context there is obviously some kind of agreement that punishment is something that works. I think that is the case in other cases, where someone is at least saying that punishment does not work, but we will have to take that discussion another day. What is at least crucial in terms of data security is therefore that we must take a citizen's view and not take an authority's view. We need to ensure legal certainty in this area, and it is therefore relatively irrelevant whether it is private actors or public actors who weaken the legal position of citizens. The previous rapporteur also mentioned that there have been lots of very, very boring cases of compromising deeply sensitive information in which public authorities have been involved, and this must of course be looked at with as much seriousness as if it were any other player who had done so. That is why, of course, it is important that there is some consequence in sloppy personal data, and in cases where the Data Protection Agency has complained and nothing has happened and where it has been some sort of laxity, I am absolutely convinced that the way things are changed now will have a good and beneficial effect. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we are absolutely in favour of this possibility of imposing fines on public authorities if they violate the law, and we believe that, as I said, this will have a beneficial effect. Both for the sake of legal certainty and for the sake of a sense of justice, such infringements must have some consequence. With regard to L 69, the technical draft law, it can be said that it stems from a desire to continue the current legal situation. Of course, we do not have any problems with that, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance support both legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116105338	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116105352	Thank you. The aim of the bill, as many have said, is to supplement the rules of the Data Protection Regulation in the light of the European Commission's data protection package, which was finally adopted on 14 April 2016. The proposal maintains and lays down additional national provisions on the processing of personal data within the national scope provided for by the Regulation. On a large number of points, the proposal continues the current legal situation, but there are also a number of changes and new breaches, many of which are extremely positive, and I would like to mention some of the most central ones. It is the right to be forgotten in the digital world, which is introduced as a general right in many cases. And fines for infringements of the rules on data processing by companies are significantly increased, which has been necessary for a long time, and public authorities can now be fined if they violate the rules. After all, we see digitalisation as a great gain for consumers and for our society in general. Developments have resulted in personal data being collected and exploited to an unprecedented extent by both authorities and private companies. It generates knowledge, better service and smart digital services, but it also very much challenges the individual's right to privacy and information control as well as IT security in general. Therefore, a strong data protection law is an important foundation for the future. There is no doubt that, overall, we are very, very positive about this bill. There are a lot of positive things in it. We can also see, and we think that is also positive, that the Minister has listened to the many hearings that have come, especially in view of the fact that public authorities will now also be able to be fined if they violate the rules. And we think that the solution chosen by the Minister in the legislative proposal seems sensible and balanced with regard to the public authorities. We also welcome the fact that the Minister has chosen to maintain a national ban on the disclosure of data for marketing purposes without consent, although this is not a requirement of the regulation. So praise for that. Now I have praised, and I would like to move on to the obs/criticism points which I would like to make here from the platform and which I hope the Minister will listen to and take into account in further consideration in the further work of the committee. First of all, it is still being proposed, and to the extent that it is now being proposed, that the authorities should be exempted from the basic rule of assignment, which protects citizens from the possibility that information obtained and data on it may be used for other purposes, without the consent of the citizens. So, in my opinion, the draft law gives the authorities far too broad an opportunity to re-use data for purposes other than those for which the data have been collected. At the same time, it is apparent from section 5 of the draft law. 3 that each Minister may, after negotiation with the Minister for Justice and within the framework of Article 23 of the Data Protection Regulation, lay down detailed rules for the further processing of personal data by public authorities for purposes other than those originally collected, regardless of the compatibility of the purposes. So, in addition to the authorities being able to re-use information on too broad a basis, a model has also been chosen in which the Minister can decide when the re-use should take place at the notice level. And then you have chosen a model in which it is only the Resort Minister who decides it, while the Folketing is really being pulled out of the decision-making process in relation to a subject that we think is very important. We think this is questionable, both from a data security perspective, but also from a democratic perspective. Secondly, we also believe that the authorities do not have sufficient information obligations, that is, the obligation to inform the citizen, in relation to the re-use of data on the citizen in other contexts. It is a scandalous combination of rules which are too broad, opaque and insufficiently democratically governed by the examples I have mentioned here. And we do not think that Denmark should take advantage of the opportunities that exist to make special rules in these areas and not in the way the Minister then proposes. Finally, we find it a pity that the Minister has not chosen to include the possibility of allowing group actions, which is an option where private organisations could, for example, do so. be the Consumers' Council, and it could also be other organisations that can make group actions on behalf of all concerned, i.e. the so-called optout model, in which they apply on behalf of everyone except those who actively opt out. And we think this is a pity because we believe that it will significantly strengthen the ability to enforce citizens' rights, and that is why we very much miss the Minister making use of that opportunity. We think it is very important that, once this law has been adopted, we should also be involved in ensuring a broad awareness of the rules and rights and obligations, so that we can increase transparency in the digital services and products market, and so that consumer safety is included, in relation to what is allowed and what is not allowed and what rights consumers have. So we also hope that the Minister is sympathetic to orientation material and guidance for the whole area, because it is a dike case that can be difficult to understand for ordinary citizens. In conclusion, as I also said at the outset, we are, overall, very positive about the legislative proposal, which we support. We hope, then, that the Minister will take on, if not all, at least some of our criticisms in his reflections, not least the question of creating such wide scope for public authorities to re-use information for purposes other than those for which it was collected. This seems to us to be a real sore point in this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110020	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110027	As our legal rapporteur cannot be present, on behalf of the Radical Left, I should like to say the following, which is that we also welcome the entire personal data regulation that has come from the European Commission. After all, in Denmark we are one of the most digitalised societies in the world and one of the most data-based societies in the world, but unfortunately we are not one of the most secure societies when it comes to cyber and data security. That is why we are very pleased with the European Commission's data protection regulation, which stresses the right of citizens and consumers to control their own data and provides more effective protection of personal data across Member States. It is simply the European Union at its best. The regulation is ambitious, but it leaves national room for manoeuvre. Unfortunately, with this bill, we think that the government uses or almost misuses this room for manoeuvre to avoid many of the innovations in the regulation and, instead, simply perpetuates current Danish law. We find this problematic for several reasons. Firstly, it poses a risk to the citizen and the consumer. The bill touches down the obligation to carry out impact assessments of the risks posed by the use of big data for the individual citizen. This may be the risk of being sorted out as an applicant for a job, a credit rating, a bank loan or an insurance policy. The regulation and the fundamental rights it has been put in the world to protect are actually actively opposed. Secondly, the Danish special rules place an increased risk on the companies. By interpreting the Personal Data Regulation in a way that is adamantly continuing the Danish legal state, we Danish companies are putting on a new business risk, namely the risk that their data processing does not meet the European requirements and expectations for corporate data protection and data accountability. The risk becomes real when a person brings a complaint about a Danish company's data processing in another EU country to the Data Protection Agency there. This creates the risk of higher fines and claims. Nor do we find that satisfactory. Finally, the bill prevents us from exploiting the growth potential of utilizing data in systems designed to ensure personal data protection... what is called privacy by design. With the bill, the government states that old systems should not be redesigned, but that it can instead be remedied by training the employees. It is not ambitious in our eyes, almost unambitious. That is why, unfortunately, we are as critical of the legislative proposal as we are enthusiastic about the regulation itself, and that is why, unfortunately, I cannot make our position known at this stage. We will follow the bill in the further committee and consider our options for action along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110332	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110341	The protection of personal data is becoming increasingly important. The information is extremely large and will only grow in the future. That is why we must respond with an effective data protection law. I think there are two things that have not been in the debate yet, but which are something we have noticed at the SF. It is the comments of the Engineer's Association that say that one also has the right to be forgotten and that it is a central part of the Data Protection Regulation. For the same reason, the Engineer's Association is concerned that, in some situations, L 69 suggests that the Police Intelligence Service and the Defence Intelligence Service should delete the information when others point out it, but that they are not obliged by law to continuously assess whether something should be deleted. I also think that the Engineer's Association has relevant objections to the administrative rules on treatment safety. We also think that the Consumer Council Think has an important point when they write that Denmark can choose to use the legal basis of the Data Protection Regulation to adopt national special rules on data protection advisers. Personally sensitive information must be treated with great respect and caution by both public and private authorities. Fines can help to promote that understanding. The SF supports the legislative proposals as it will strengthen the fences around the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110533	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110540	It is a comprehensive legislative proposal which is very technical and complex. In 2012, the European Commission submitted a proposal for a new data protection package. The package was finally adopted on 14 April 2016 and consists, inter alia, of: of a general EU regulation on the protection of personal data, which will apply both in the private and public sectors. The regulation has direct effect in Denmark, which is why we are obliged to ensure that Danish legislation complies with the provisions of the regulation, and it must be from 25 May 2018. The main proposal for the Data Protection Act and the follow-up proposal with impact changes are there to complement the rules of the regulation. The draft law maintains and lays down additional national provisions on the processing of personal data within the national scope provided by the regulation. A number of Danish laws contain references to the Personal Data Act and these references must be adapted to the Data Protection Regulation and the new Data Protection Act. Furthermore, the Danish rules governing the processing of personal data must be amended and they must take effect from 2018. Therefore, a number of impact changes need to be made, which are made in the draft legislative act, for example. the provision that public authorities may be fined between 2% and 4%. for infringements of the Data Protection Regulation. The draft law is aware that fines of the order of 8-10 million. kr. for a municipality can be a great deal of money for making a mistake with a social security number on the municipality's website, and that is why the bill takes into account that there are special circumstances to be taken into account when the courts impose fines on public authorities, among others. fines and lower fines to public authorities. So all in all we support the Conservative People's Party bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110807	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116110816	Thank you for the positive reception of the bill. As several speakers have said, this is a very comprehensive and technical legislative proposal. I would therefore just like to refer to some of the basic elements of the draft law, and there is also ample opportunity to ask a number of questions during the committee's reading. As mentioned earlier, this is, after all, a proposal made in 2012 and adopted in April 2016. The package consists primarily of the Data Protection Regulation, which will apply in both the private and the public sectors. The Regulation will apply from 25 May 2018, and as the Regulation has direct effect in Denmark, we are committed to bringing Danish legislation into line with it from 25 May 2018. In future, the protection of personal data will mainly be provided by the regulation. This means that the broad lines in the area of data protection have already been laid down. That is, for example, the case. The EU regulation, which introduces the new requirement for so-called privacy by design and the requirement for a so-called data protection officer in some cases. The requirements for IT security also come from the regulation, just as the high fines that we hear so much about also come from the regulation. It is in this light that I am presenting the bill for a new data protection law, L 68. The sole purpose of the draft law is to supplement the rules of the regulation. The proposal maintains and thus lays down additional national provisions on the processing of personal data within the national scope provided for by the Regulation. In the vast majority of areas, the proposal continues the current legal status. This is true, for example. the rules on when the law applies, that is to say the scope of the legislative proposal, and that also applies to the rules on the rights of data subjects and when exceptions to the rights can be made. The draft law, for example, lays down: up to the continuation of rules on the processing of data in the statistical and research context. As a final example of the fact that we are in the process of continuing the current legal situation, mention can be made of the rules on the organisation of the Data Protection Agency and the supervisor, the Data Board. The follow-up proposal, which we are also discussing here today, L 69, must of course be seen in the context of the main proposal. The follow-up proposal is of a very technical nature. It has been necessary to make that bill, as a number of Danish laws contain references to the Personal Data Act, and these references need to be adapted to the Data Protection Regulation and the new Data Protection Act. It is therefore necessary to make a number of impact changes which are proposed with this technical follow-up legislative proposal. But back to the main proposal, because there is no secret that we have made a number of choices in the data protection bill. First of all, it concerns the provision of the bill that public authorities should be able to impose fines for infringements of the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act. Public authorities must be entitled to a fine of up to 2% or 4%. of the Authority's operating budget, depending, of course, on its gravity, up to a maximum of 8 million. and 16 million. kr. Normally, public authorities cannot be liable for fines for acting like the authorities they are. However, we have chosen to stress that it is only fair that public authorities should also be subject to fines, since now private companies are at risk of the very high fines, which in principle can reach as much as 75 million. or 150 million kr. depending on gravity. Having said that, we are also aware that 8 million. or 16 million kr. Of course, there is a lot of money, and none of us, as such, have an interest in a municipality having to dispose of several million if a municipal employee has been misplaced on the municipality's website by mistake, and we have therefore also put some clear prerequisites into the draft law to take into account that there are to be First of all, there are ceilings on fines. It is therefore a question of what a maximum fine can be and, I think, it will be very rare for a penalty to be measured up to the maximum. But there are always moments that can speak in a different direction. It may have happened negligently, not on purpose. Secondly, the draft law expressly assumes that fines as such and not only financial penalties will be lower for public authorities. Thirdly, the proposal assumes that account must be taken of the particular situation of the authorities. It is, of course, the case that they are legally required to carry out statutory tasks. The authorities cannot therefore simply stop their operations, and in this case the authorities differ from private operators who are not normally entrusted with specific tasks under the legislation. We also expressly require in the draft law that when the fine is being assessed to the authorities, attention should be paid to the fact that the authorities are very different and that two authorities are hardly exactly the same. They are subject to very different framework conditions. Thus, some public authorities have an appropriation that is tied close to their statutory task, which must, of course, be taken into account. Fourthly, a fine must not necessarily be imposed in the first place. We therefore do not envisage with the bill that authorities should be fined for all infringements of the rules. It can well be imagined that an infringement is sanctioned by an order from the Data Protection Agency that may apply to both private and public bodies and that only if the injunction is infringed will the penalty be imposed. As we write in the bill, for example. stress whether the infringement is intentional or is negligent. The fact that we are now imposing fines on public authorities does not alter the current scope for disciplinary action against a municipal employee. In other words, a public servant will, of course, also be able to be punished in the future for violating the criminal code. However, our proposal in the draft law is that authorities as such should also be able to incur liability for fines. I think we have seen too many examples where one gets a feeling that personal data has been treated too carelessly, and I am sure that the mere risk that one can be fined as an authority will have a very disciplined effect, which means that the authorities will take better care of all our information. I look forward to further treatment. I fully agree with that, as I have heard today from the rapporteurs, that there are a number of technical things that we need to drill out during the committee procedure, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111514	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111518	Thank you. The Minister is right, of course, that this is an enormous amount of material, and there is also a lack of clarity which we have taken a little interest in and to which I would like to ask the Minister, and this is about renewal of consent. When you give away information, personal information, could the Minister say something about what, if the purpose changes, will mean for the change of consent? Does it expire, or should you actively do something yourself? Will the Minister go into that part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111557	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111558	Maybe I didn't get the question right, but I'll find out in a minute when I answer it. I think sir... Peter Kofod Poulsen is thinking of the power of ministers to lay down rules for the data collected for one purpose, but then can also be used for another purpose. After all, the bill contains the authorisation clause whereby, following a negotiation with the Minister for Justice, a minister can use the data for other purposes. A number of restrictions have been imposed as to when it can be applied and this provision applies, for example. not for health information collected under the Health Act, and this should also be seen in the light of the joint public digitisation strategy for 2016-2020, where public authorities are required to transmit and re-use data in an efficient, open and transparent manner. I don't know how much time I have left to answer, but otherwise it may be that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen in his next follow-up question will ask, if not well I will give an example, then I would really like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111710	Here you go, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111711	I can try, of course, and the Minister can also reply in writing afterwards, because that might be better. The example one could take was to give consent to data being used for medical research, but if the purpose changes and it becomes a commercial purpose instead of the medical purpose, what about consent? That could be an example.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111737	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111738	Thank you. I hope I will have the opportunity to clarify this in writing, for the example I would like to give is within the public authorities, as I said before. Let us now think about the idea that we have a situation where you want to share information across a municipality's professional groups and administration in order to assess whether there are children in the municipality who are at risk of social exposure, so that the municipality can take action against a exposed family in the past. It may be a family that receives benefits but has not appeared to agreements, participates in ongoing social offers, and in this respect it may be appropriate to be able to further process the information for purposes other than those originally collected for, so that early assistance can be provided to, for example: This child. But I think this is really good for further clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111830	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111846	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116111919	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Justice for his statement. I would also like to thank you for the good follow-up meetings that we have had since then, I think. It is, of course, entirely in line with the agreement that we have agreed to follow up this serious matter. After all, it is no secret that social democracy has been one of the parties that has very actively engaged in the whole question of Denmark remaining a full member of Europol. It is not a secret either. I think we have also said in a number of debates in this Chamber that we were sorry about the result of the vote. Having said that, we have subsequently actively supported the efforts of the government to make a special agreement on Danish membership of Europol. And as you can also read in the statement, if you are to sum up the whole issue, it is actually, in the first place, a cop that describes the operationally satisfactory agreement, and we are quite happy about that. What concerns us very, very much, however, is that, before we made the special agreement, the police warned that in the near future, this would significantly restrict the police's ability to solve, combat and prevent cross-border crime. In this new statement, which we have been sent, what they are describing is no longer in the near future, but very, very soon, that there will be a significant restriction on their ability to combat cross-border crime, because we are already rolling out QUEST, as I know many of the rapporteurs in this Chamber are aware. Where, then, do we stand after that realization? First of all, we must find that the parties which guaranteed the Danes that we would continue to be a full member of Europol, even if we voted 'no', were not right. Secondly, I do not believe that it is realistically possible to get a better agreement than is available, so it would be hypocritical on the part of the Social Democrats to come here and say that we need to have an even better agreement, and that is why we are faced with the eyes of the Social Democrats that we must try to wait and see what happens. I sincerely hope and wish that this is not something that will have serious consequences when it comes to preventing, solving and combating cross-border crime. But it is also clear that if we come into a situation where we can see that it is as the police warned, that is a very significant limitation of their scope for action, then we also have to insist that the parties of the Folketing meet again and look at what can then be done. Whether it is first of all to ask to try to get a better agreement or whether it is to discuss whether to surrender sovereignty only to Europol - or not - I do not want to stand by right now. But I just want to say that we are keeping a very close eye on this issue. I think I will leave those initial remarks in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112233	Thank you. Sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112237	Thank you. Now QUEST is not a register, it is a search system, and so I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur to confirm that, by means of a single telephone call, you can have access to exactly the same information in the future that could be accessed if you applied through QUEST.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112254	I would like to confirm that, and that is also in line with what the National Police told us at the meeting we had in the Ministry of Justice. I am not a trained policeman, but I do know so much about police work that often time is a factor, whether it is a question of preventing terrorism or whether it is quite different situations, and there is the police's own assessment, of course, that it can mean something in terms of their ability to prevent and combat cross-border crime. And we're listening to the police in this context. I have no reason to doubt the police's assessment that they consider this to be a major restriction.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112338	Sir. Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112339	I am pleased that the rapporteur can confirm that we can continue to have access to exactly the same information. I also just need confirmation of the second part of the question, namely that this can be done by means of a single telephone call.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112355	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112358	I can confirm this as well, because it is also in line with what the National Police said. But it still does not change what we have been given black and white, as well as we have been told orally by the National Police that they consider this to be a significant restriction on their ability to prevent cross-border crime. And I actually think that's what both Mr. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten should take more seriously than it sounds to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112422	Thank you. There's no more comments, and then it's sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116112432	Thank you, Madam President. On 2 November 2017, the Minister of Justice submitted a report on the status of the Danish police in relation to Europol. The statement has been submitted in view of the fact that on 29 April 2017, the Government concluded an agreement with Europol on so-called operational and strategic cooperation. It is clear from the statement that it is still the opinion of the National Police that the agreement on Denmark's association with Europol is operationally satisfactory and that there is agreement between what Denmark was given in 2016 in the perspective of the European Commission and the practical result that we are facing. In the Danish People's Party, we are pleased that, despite many prophecies of doom, Denmark would become a Hellenic for paedophiles, terrorists and other criminals, if the reservation of law and foreigners was not abolished, it nevertheless succeeded in making an agreement with Europol, which the National Police themselves thus designate as operationally satisfactory. In practical terms, Denmark has been given the opportunity to make up to eight Danish-speaking Europol staff available 24 hours a day to carry out the necessary searches. The National Police have then decided, to understand from the statement, that in the first place we can settle for four: two located in The Hague and two at the NEC, by the way, placed behind a curtain and with a Dutch public holiday calendar to emphasize the difference from the previous one. But in reality there is no difference between what happened before Denmark's special agreement entered into force and what happens after. Prior to the entry into force of the special agreement, the officers called the NEC and spoke to some people who could indicate which registrations were in the EIS. Following the entry into force of the special agreement, the police are now calling, perhaps even the same people who are now simply behind a curtain and who are receiving their paychecks from Europol, but who can therefore find exactly the same information as quickly and as effectively as they have done in the past. In addition, Denmark, as in the past, has the opportunity to participate in analysis projects, including future ones, and to participate in Europol's board meetings as an observer. The National Police have therefore also gathered against this background that the agreement is sufficient to ensure satisfactory operation of the Danish police. In the Danish People's Party, of course, we also feel that if the National Police were to reach the conclusion at some point that there is a need to employ more than the current four people, then of course the National Police simply have to do so. The fact that only four people have been employed so far shows, moreover, that the debate we had in the Danish Parliament during the first reading of the draft law on Europol on 20 April, when several Members of Things asked questions about whether the eight people were now sufficient to service the police, was probably not as well founded in reality as it might have been. But at least now we know that, without challenging the agreement, we can double the crew who help to apply for the EIS. It has then been brought up that a new application called QUEST, which provides mobile access to certain data from the EIS, in which Denmark cannot participate, will pose a problem for the police. I am not going to be able to answer that, but I can say that if the police do not feel that they are getting sufficient benefit from the EIS system in its present form, then, as I have said, there is the possibility of doubling the number of people assisting the Danish police and thus getting answers even faster than it is today. Moreover, it is difficult to say exactly what this QUEST system can or will not be able to say, since it is only finally available during the month of December 2017. As you know, a pilot project is currently under way in Spain. But it is only and finally available during the month of December 2017. As the National Police informs, it will be a mixture of data whose content can be displayed immediately and other data of the type hit-no hit. Probably this will mean that personal contact will still have to be made with an employee with specially privileged access to the search, but by its very nature we cannot know that. For the Danish People's Party, it has been and remains important that Danish police are prepared to counter crime. That is also why we have reached an agreement with the government, which means that the number of officers will increase by 300 over the coming years. It is also gratifying, therefore, that we can continue to note that the National Police support the agreement and continue to find the agreement operationally satisfactory. Thus, given the scope for expansion in relation to the personnel capacity contained in the agreement, it is not our view that the police will be significantly disadvantaged as a result of the search app being deployed to an unknown extent and with an unknown search mode over the coming years. On the other hand, we welcome the fact that the Danes' reservation of law and of foreigners is still valid and that Denmark continues to have a satisfactory connection with Europol, to use the words of the National Police.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113002	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113010	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party uses incredibly many words to try to convince us that it has had no consequences that Denmark is not a full and full member of Europol. However, can the rapporteur not first confirm that according to the statement we have just received, the National Police say that it will have significant consequences and weaken the opportunities of the Danish police when the new QUEST programme is introduced, where all other police officers in Europe can just break up an app and pursue a person who they stop at the border or where it is now. I would like to see the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party at least acknowledge that. The next question I would like to ask is how the Danish People's Party feels about them first telling the Danish people that we could become a full member of Europol. They couldn't deliver that. Then they promised the Danes that if we could not, we could at least have a referendum on Europol alone. Nor does the Danish People's Party want to deliver on that promise. Is there no limit at all to how far the Danish People's Party, in its hatred of the EU, will go in the deterioration of Danish police's ability to persecute terrorists?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113117	There is certainly no limit to how far the Radical Left is prepared to go to sell out Danish self-determination in order to please people in the European Union. I also see that Mrs Margrethe Vestager is now mentioned as President of the European Commission. It's kind of a nightmare scenario; I have to admit that. But in relation to Mr. Martin Lidegaard's question is that we have a fine deal. The National Police point out that it is operationally satisfactory, and I am not going to go into such a way to predict in chicken guts to find out what a search application that is being introduced at some point will do in difference. Well, I don't feel prepared to do that at all. If sir... Martin Lidegaard is really so smart that he is able to predict it, I take the hat off for it. And this simply underlines that there is no doubt that the members of the Radical Left are very, very gifted. But I have to say, my talent isn't enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113214	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113218	I'm gonna stay away from the police work. I can only note that the report itself states that this will lead to a deterioration. And the Danish People's Party cannot outrun that. It's had consequences. It is a breach of promise of very large dimensions that the Danish People's Party will not stand by promising full membership of Europol. We didn't get that. Then you promised that at least you would give the Danes an opportunity to take a position again when we could not become a full member. Nor will it be given to the Danes. What is it that the Danish People's Party is so afraid to ask the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113255	But if Mr. Martin Lidegaard would like a referendum on the abolition of the reservation of law and of foreigners, we take it. It's gonna be okay. But I have a view of that, sir. Martin Lidegaard may not really want to do so anyway, at least not on the basis of some application. I also think that the Danes would think that it was a little strange if they were going to the ballot boxes because there is some sort of skyline on the Internet that makes it possible to search. In other words, what we just have to say is that we have access to exactly the same information after this agreement has been concluded as before the agreement was concluded. And that is what the Danish People's Party emphasised over and over again in the election campaign we would have, and we have got it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113331	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113336	Thank you. I would perhaps like to try to be part of something that the rapporteur himself mentions in his rapporteur's speech, where he says that if, as the National Police warns, this proves to be a significant restriction on their ability to solve, prevent and combat cross-border crime, then the Danish People's Party will help to look at it again. But can the rapporteur not elaborate on what he means by helping to look at it again? He also said the same thing on October 16 to Ritzau. Can the rapporteur not elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113408	We will not stand in the way of this if the other parties want to send the Minister for Justice to Brussels with a task of allowing the Danish police to apply to QUEST; we will not stand in the way of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113423	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113425	We already know that this would require the surrender of sovereignty. So, what should it be like before the Danish People's Party believes that we are now in a situation where there is a significant restriction on the work of the police, as they themselves warn? Is it certain types of crime that cannot be solved or prevented, or is it that the police tell the Folketing again? Where does the distinction of the Danish People's Party go here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113455	Well, look, it's my opinion that the fact that Denmark has not got access to this mobile search access through QUEST has arbitrary character. It is not technically, factually or legally justified why this access should not be granted to a country such as Denmark. It is a political decision which has been made that it cannot be and, as with all other political decisions, it can of course also be changed. And if there is a broad majority in the Folketing who would like to give the Minister for Justice that task, then we do not stand in the way of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113531	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left, who is the next rapporteur in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116113547	Thank you for that, thank you for the floor here. Thank you to the Minister for Justice for a thorough statement. The agreement reached last year assumed, and I quote: "The Parties to the Agreement note that in autumn 2017, for the parties behind the agreement and the multi-year agreement on police finances, the Minister of Justice presents an overall assessment of the operational consequences • as well as possibly. the financial implications for the Danish police that Denmark will no longer be a member of Europol............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We now have that statement, and I think it is quite excellent. It is an objective statement that can sometimes be difficult to find out what is up and down in the debate but here we have a statement written neither by the yes side nor by the no side. It is a sober and objective statement about the consequences of no longer being a member of Europol. And I hope that today's discussion can help to put an end to some of the more or less robust allegations and guarantees that have been allowed to fill too much in the debate. It is clear from the statement that our Europol agreement works satisfactorily in many areas. Let me say straight away: it was the art of the possible, and it has become an agreement that will certainly also work in some way. I am not going to ignore the fact that I certainly believe that something better could have been done in other ways, but the voters and the 'no' parties would not have done so. Unfortunately, the report also shows that Danish police are significantly worse off than their colleagues in the European Union on a number of key points. It is highlighted in various ways in the statement that our lack of access to the so-called QUEST system will be a major weakening. It is the system that allows access to important crime information from the Europol system to be captured by the police via tablets, mobile phones and the like. When we entered into the Europol agreement back in May, in some places we could get the impression that the system in question was a future discovery of the system in which the policeman in the police car could look up and identify the merits of a person who has been suspected and arrested on the street. However, this is not some future perspective; it is a very near future, it is more precisely in December, as far as I understand that this system will be available to all the Member States of the European Union and it is surely December this year. The consequence of the lack of access to the QUEST system, according to the National Police Department, will be that the police will have less flexible and less rapid access to searches via mobile search equipment. That's what the Minister of Justice's statement here and that of the National Police says. It will not be possible to carry out a search on a mobile basis and via tablets and data equipment in the databases of Europol in order to determine whether a person is known for crime in other EU countries. In other words, regardless of how we turn it or how we turn it, we will be slightly inferior to colleagues in other EU countries. I think it is very sinful, in a situation where cross-border cooperation is so necessary in order to combat crime. I think it is a pity that it is evidently a consequence of the 'no' vote which the 'no' parties had taken, that the police are now being placed at a disadvantage. But on the other hand, it can't come as a big surprise. This was, of course, to a considerable extent, what the debate was about before the vote. In addition, I think it is worth noting that the police's analytical and proactive crime-fighting work is also slightly more weakened. We have the opportunity to be invited into various cooperation on crime analysis, etc. etc., but we do not have the automatic approach to what we had in the past. So, to sum up, I would like to say that the statement makes it quite clear that Denmark has reached an agreement, as some of us would have liked. However, we are by no means a full member of Europol under the same conditions as we have been in the past. We have had what has been put before us by the Commission after the 'no' vote. We've got the deal that I'd call the art of the potential. It is an operationally satisfactory agreement, but it could be much better, to put it bluntly. The government should and must do so at a time when crime is as serious as it is at the moment, and unfortunately it will continue to be for many years, especially cross-border crime, to keep a close watch on whether this agreement we have is now meeting the wishes we have for the police and its work here in the context of cross-border crime. And if it cannot live up to that, we have a problem that we cannot close our eyes to, at least here in the Folketing, and we are, of course, ready to take the debate again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114137	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The first of a brief remark is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114141	Well, I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left to confirm that QUEST is not a register, but that QUEST is a search system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114155	I think I used the term QUEST system before, so it's probably true that it's a search system, yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114158	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114200	[Sound emission]... that we fully agree that we have access to exactly the same information in the future as we do today, precisely the same information because we have access to the register. Well, that's where I'd like to ask, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen sheds light on what that delay is. So, what a delay, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen looks, like measured for hours or days, if that's what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114225-2	The opportunity is there, as I said before. But, well, if sir... Søren Søndergaard would like an example, so the police, to the extent that they happen to a person on the street, can not just jump and arrest him. There has to be some suspicion, and there has to be a reasonable basis. I think that's what section 755 of the Code of Procedure says before you can arrest the person. But to the extent that you need to call, yes, I have to say that we are living in a world where things are not going so fast. We are living a digitalised world, and there I am quite sure that if you had the search option now I'm afraid of what words I'm going to use to go in through tablets and the like in the system down in the EU to see crime information on the person, yes, you would be able to make an arrest much more easily or at least check whether the options are available to make an arrest. Now we have to call, and unfortunately I do not think that option is as effective. It is limited how long one can hold a random person on the street just because one does not like or suspect the person concerned. Like some meat, you need to be able to get it right away through tablets and similar products. Now we have to call, and then we have to hope that someone will answer the phone.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114341	Then it's mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114344	I have to say, it's quite a deathmason mine, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen presents the Danish Parliament today. Well, for how long can you hold a person? Probably in ample time to make a call too. Well, it's not a question of 0 seconds or 30 seconds. Going into such a search app, writing the name or identity card number, or whatever, on such a person also takes some time. I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen, since mr. Preben Bang Henriksen now cares so much about those seconds, would tell the Folketing how much a delay Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen imagines it is. Is that 20 seconds, is that 25 seconds? Because we agree that this isn't even about five minutes. Probably it's something that needs to be counted in seconds.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114447	Well, I can only rely on what the police are saying, and they are saying that this is not such a good system. And then, sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth makes it all up in seconds. I guess I'm just gonna have to arrest him, and I'm quite sure he can apply to the colleagues in the Enhedslisten... that it's really not hip like hap, how long you're holding a person without arresting him, thank God, in this country. There are rules for when that is to happen. But there is no doubt that the police consider this to be a not so good tool, and that is precisely because you risk getting into situations where you have to let them go before you have found out whether there is meat on the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114530	This gives me an opportunity to remind you that it is obviously something that is spreading that you must remember, if you wish to speak twice, also to press in the second time. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114548	I'll keep that in mind, sir. President. Well, I'm just gonna have to say something nice and quietly to Mr. Knox. Preben Bang Henriksen, that is to say, I do not think there will be any problems if it is the case that you are being held for 11⁄2 minutes. In any case, it is so short of time that it stands in extreme contrast to the things we were told by, among others. Left ahead of this vote. We were told that it would be 6-8 years before we could have an agreement with Europol at all. And how long did it take? So, I just think that perhaps the so-called 'yes' parties should consider a second time before making this a huge matter, whether you want a little bit of credibility with the electorate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114632	Yes, it is possible that it will take 6-8 years and that it has been said, but it was then to get an agreement that put us as before, but we did not get it. Now we got a quite different deal. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth can ask all he wants for seconds and the like. I don't know any more than sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth on how this is done in arrest situations, and therefore I can read what the National Police have been quoted for in the statement. Indeed, it is the opinion of the National Police that the lack of access, including in particular the lack of access to QUEST and the inability to include data from Europol directly as a supporting data source in police analysis and proactive crime work, will, within a very short period of time, significantly restrict the ability of Danish police to combat cross-border crime compared to Europol members.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114720	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then we move on to the Enhedslisten, and that's Mr. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116114732	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for his statement. In general, I think this is a good statement, especially if you are able to decode the particular language used in the debate. When, for example, The Minister of Justice writes that in the short term the agreement guarantees the Danish police a satisfactory access to Europol databases, so what is actually believed is that the agreement guarantees Danish police full access to Europol databases, as has always been the case. And when, for example, the Minister... writes about the future, that here Danish police staff will not be able to carry out a search on the spot via mobile equipment in Europol databases, so it is not believed at all that Danish police will not be able to search on the spot via mobile equipment in Europol databases, because they can, and they will be able to do so in the future. What is believed is that they cannot do a search via a poster, but must make an application via a phone call. It's like the big difference. So if we ignore these quirks, the statement cannot conceal the fact that the scare-mongering that the population was bombed with up to the referendum on 3 December 2015 has not proved to be realized. Parallel agreement on Europol will take 4-5 years, should we wait and let the Danish police fail and the Danes' security diminish? Søren Pape Poulsen, now Minister of Justice, asked on Twitter the day before the referendum. It was wrong. On the contrary, we can look back on an agreement that the Danish police describe as operationally satisfactory. Last year, the Danish police used Europol's search system about 72,000 times, and we will no longer have that option if we vote no. " Ulla Tørnæs, who is now Minister for Development, claimed at the time in a household newspaper printed in almost a million copies. It was wrong. The Danes voted no, and Danish police today and tomorrow and in future can use Europol's search system as much as the Danish police want: 72,000 times, 7.2 million times or 72 million times. There's no problem with that, just get started. What do we get if we say no, Radical Youth said on a poster, and replied himself: enthusiastic children's lookers. And Radical Youth was supported by Nick Hækkerup, who said in a campaign video: The reality is that if it becomes a no on 3 December, then the paedophiles get easier games, then it becomes harder to unravel paedophilia rings. It was wrong. Nothing in the agreement that has been reached weakens the fight against paedophilia. So children's lookers have just as little reason to be enthusiastic today as they had before the Danish people voted no. So I think it is important to make it clear here: the Danish people did not vote against European police cooperation. Because that was not what they had been asked. You could have done that, but you didn't. They were asked about something quite different, and the other thing to which the Danish people said no was to abandon the Danish exception from the EU's overall supranational legal policy. It was a resignation which could have resulted in a narrow political majority here in the Folketing or in the European Committee having a late night hour transferring decision-making rights in an infinite number of areas of legal policy from the Danish Parliament to the European Union, without that decision ever being reversed or withdrawn, regardless of how the Danish electorate voted. The Danish people voted against this and it was very wise to do so. Already in the referendum campaign, we said on the part of the Enhedslisten that, after a "no' vote, we wanted a negotiated agreement between the European Union and Denmark on continued cooperation within the framework of Europol, and we claimed, as it turned out, that it was possible to obtain such an agreement if there was political will to do so. As we wrote on our campaign page under the heading "The right to privacy does not stand in the way of police cooperation " and I quote what we wrote: "Even though we retain the right to the law, Danish police can still cooperate with the police in other countries. It is also possible for Denmark to have a parallel agreement on Europol, such as Norway, Iceland and Switzerland. ▪ The attentive listener probably notes that we were very moderate in our hopes. We have aimed only at a Norwegian solution. It was only a Norwegian solution that we put in view. It is all the more gratifying, as the Minister for Justice's statement also shows, that the solution we have received is much better than a Norwegian solution. It is, so to speak, a Norwegian solution version 2 plus plus with the tick and the snake. And that is why I should like to take this opportunity, perhaps rather unconventionally, to thank those who have worked actively to make this possible. Thank you to the officials of the Ministry of Justice and the other ministries involved in the case. Thanks to the staff of the Folketing, who have made a great effort. Thank you to colleagues in the Folketing and at least most of the Danish Members of the European Parliament. However, in addition to the efforts of all of them, there is a very fundamental reason why we have managed to reach that agreement. And this fundamental reason is that the other countries of Europol, and especially our neighbouring countries, have exactly the same interest in the effective fight against cross-border crime as we ourselves do. If we are interested in being able to withdraw information from the system of criminals who travel through Germany on their way to Denmark, then of course the German authorities also have an interest in being able to withdraw information from the system of criminals who travel through Denmark to enter Germany. And I think that understanding is also extremely important in terms of how we treat the future. In the Minister's statement, there is concern that the present agreement may last for years, for example, on: A sufficient number of Danish police officers may be able to apply directly to a particular part of Europol's register or to do so via a phone call, with the result that some of them do not get it done. I would like to acknowledge that concern. It is quite legitimate to have that concern, and that is precisely why we have entered into an agreement between the parties, negotiated in the Prime Minister's Office, which means that we follow developments closely and once a year we get a written statement • we have the first one here and then we discuss it here in the Parliamentary Chamber. It was precisely a recognition that there could be a development in this area. But if that concern is to be taken seriously and not just used for political purposes, then it must be dealt with. And if the Minister of Justice is of the opinion that there is a problem on the horizon, then of course I assume that the government is already in the process of contacting the other countries of Europol on how to deal with these problems, for example. at some point through a revised agreement. That will certainly be due care. Will it be possible to adapt this agreement to new realities over the years? Of course, for what would it prevent Sweden and Germany and the other EU countries from wishing that Denmark might somehow become an equal for cross-border crime? Absurd. That Sweden should not be interested in obtaining information about someone crossing the German-Danish border on the road to Sweden who is suspected of preparing for a serious terrorist action? I don't think so. And if anyone in this Chamber suspects it, for example. Sweden and Germany, I think they should stand up and say so. Then we shall have to bring it forward in the debate. As far as today's situation is concerned, with this debate on the statement, we can state that we have implemented a good agreement which the police consider to be operationally satisfactory. It is not so bad at all, especially when you think of all the doomsday trombones during the campaign leading up to the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116115710	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116115715	Sir. Søren Søndergaard is right that our European family has again shown an incredibly long-suffering and flexibility. They want to share their sovereignty with us so that we can fight organised crime, cross-border crime together, and the Enhedslisten and others do not want us to share our sovereignty with them. It is solidarity in a particularly modern way, I must say. But it really struck me when I heard the speech here, whether there has been a tiny hurry in Enhedslisten's perception of whether there is actually something that Enhedslisten is positive about here. In other words, is the Enhedslisten really positive towards Europol? Because during the debate we could never get a clear answer as to whether or not we wanted Danish membership of Europol. But now it has been almost one great praise of Europol today and of all the good things that lie in Europol. In other words, are we really opposed to Europol as an institution? If you forget about everything else in the European Union, but just take the binding police cooperation Europol, are you really positive about it in the Enhedslisten? Because it would be great news to go home with today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116115820	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116115820-2	As we also said during the election campaign, we are opposed to an institution from which the people cannot vote out. In relation to some of the serious leaks and leaks that have been in Europol, careless use of confidential material, and what do I know, I would say that if any of this continues, we will have the opportunity to say: there we do not want to be there. That is our view. And you cannot do that if you are fully involved in Europol. Then we have surrendered that competence once and for all. On the other hand, this right of decision is guaranteed by the new agreement. However, I would like to challenge the premise put forward by the radical rapporteur. Is crime to be combated only within the European Union? I think it is a very strange idea that our European partners, EU partners, think Mr. Martin Lidegaard has shown us that generosity. Yes, yes, but is it not a task to combat crime throughout Europe? Why has a system been created that is so tied up with the countries that happen to be members of the European Union? What do you think will happen to Britain? Are they going out of Europol? Should they not help to combat cross-border crime because they do not want to join the club called the European Union? I think this is a wrong way of working together to combat organised crime. That's where anyone who wants to be able to join.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116115939	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116115940	Well, I am quite clear that the Enhedslisten does not like the European Union at all and the cooperation that has been made there, but I believe that the explanation for the fact that there has been stronger cooperation, more cooperation in solidarity, sharing its sovereignty in order to combat the criminals, the major power monopolies, the economic interests which cannot otherwise be lost, and which will exploit the ordinary citizen and the system we have, is that we have agreed within our European family on a set of principles of law, democracy, which lie at the heart of our entire police work, which is a foundation of our entire legal system. We have been aware of this and all those who wish to profess the same values and the same rules have been invited into European cooperation. But it is a condition for entering that we want to, and that is why it is so great that we have succeeded, you might say, to create the European family based on values. I know, sir. Søren Søndergaard would rather see it all dissolved, and then you would have to start all over again on a whole new collaboration... apparently also in the police field... and therefore it is better that Denmark like to say: Just let the others about their solidarity; we can stand here alone and be ourselves and leave it all if it suits us. It is a good thing that the Enhedslisten has this view, but that it should provide better police cooperation and put us better in the fight against criminals, I do not believe in.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120103	But that's interesting to hear, sir. Martin Lidegaard refers to the EU as the European family or European cooperation. At some point, sir. Martin Lidegaard just try to look at a map and see that there are quite a lot of countries that are not in the EU, in Europe. They are also part of the European family. And there are increasing numbers of countries in Europe that are not part of the European Union, according to Britain's resignation. And there we are just saying that, if we are to do police cooperation in Europe, it must, of course, be open to everyone. Should there be no conditions at all? Yes, there must be some conditions. There must be some requirements in relation, for example, to: data security and how to treat people. But I just have to say that it is not the case that all EU countries actually shine there, is it? Let us take Romania, where we cannot even send people back because the way they treat criminals is so bad that we cannot send people back without violating human rights. So I just don't understand the point in Mr. Martin Lidegaard's speech. We want police cooperation; we want police cooperation between all. It must be even closer among states that respect democratic rights, which respect fundamental fundamental rights. But the point is that it has to be open to anyone who wants to be in it. Surely it should not be limited to a particular club.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120226	There's just one more questioner. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120231	I also thought that there was some clarity in the policy of the Enhedslisten in this respect, but then Mr. Søren Søndergaard a huge speech where he talked about everything else, that is, as he often does, but in a very good way it isn't that, is it? But the question is not about cooperation that is open to all sorts and booms, booms, booms. That, sir. Martin Lidegaard asked, was very specific, namely whether Europol: Has the Enhedslisten become a supporter of Europol on the basis of the agreement that has been made here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120304	Then I'll answer Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as clearly as I answered Mr. Martin Lidegaard: The Enhedslisten is in favour of police cooperation in Europol. The unitary list is not in favour of not being able to withdraw from Europol. The unitary list is not in favour of the supranational elements of Europol. The Enhedslisten is not in favour of this, and that is precisely why we have had the line that we wanted an agreement in which we retained our freedom of action, while working with practical police forces. I cannot understand why police cooperation should be linked with the European Union. I think we all agree on that, too, sir. Holger K. Nielsen has a better agreement than Norway because Norway chooses to be outside the EU. What is the reason why Norway should not be fully integrated into effective police cooperation if it is so good in Europol? Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120404	Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, it's the May 1st speech that's coming. But that is the reality. Well, that's the way it is. Listen, I'd like to say to Mr. Simpson. Søren Søndergaard: The reality is that it is based on the EU, isn't it? You can imagine everything, and I could also make long speeches about it, but that's not it at all, is it? That is the reality, and I understand that the Enhedslisten accepts and recognises the reality of Europol's starting point in EU cooperation; that is why the Enhedslisten is in favour, in other words of the way it has now come into being here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120441	We fully recognise the reality, and we have therefore made the decision that we have reached an agreement that we are not bound supranationally by Europol, but have the opportunity to withdraw from this cooperation. But again, it may be that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen says yes, yes, yes and all sorts of things, but we need to have that discussion about why only countries in the European Union should be involved in close police cooperation. Why should Norway not be involved in this? Is joining the European Union a condition for combating crime? And should the fact that Britain has resigned from the European Union also mean that they should not be involved in effective police cooperation? Sir. Holger K. Nielsen will not take a position on this, and I understand that, because it is a difficult question, but at some point we will also have that discussion in this Chamber, and then I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has to practice on what the answer is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120535	It has then given rise to another question, Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, and I expect we can do that before we take a lunch break.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120542	Well, I'll be very, very brief. Now I've heard sir. Søren Søndergaard many times on this issue, and there are many of the arguments that go back, and that is fair enough. But one of the things to which I am a little short of answers, even after the statements by the Ministry of Justice and the National Police have arrived, is the question of whether it impresses Mr. Søren Søndergaard, when it is that the police believe that it will be a significant restriction on their ability to combat and prevent crime in the future, that we do not have this search access through QUEST. First of all, if it impresses Mr. Søren Søndergaard, what does he think we can do about it? And secondly, if it doesn't impress Mr. Søren Søndergaard, what would it take to make an impression?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120629	Firstly, I would very much like to confirm that our arguments are often the same in relation to the same issues, i.e. we do not change such arguments along the way. So, first of all, I would like to confirm that. Then I would say that if you read the statement, you can see what it says. In what is about the future, it says that the police judge If that assessment turns out to be supported and true, that is, if it turns out, I gave in my speech the recipe for what I think should be done about it. I really hope the Minister of Justice is already in the process. I'm not asking the Minister of Justice to tell me. However, I assume that the Minister for Justice shares the view that it may be a problem in the long term that the Minister for Justice is already fertilizing the land among the other countries in order to develop the agreement that exists. For the information we get through QUEST is not new information, it is information we get anyway, but it requires an additional telephone call, as is the case for other countries. And if the other countries were to say no to the fact that we could get them through the QUEST system, it would require the other countries to take the view that just to bother Denmark they would not give us access to them just as quickly. Is that really sir? Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen's view of our partners in Europol that they could think of that way? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116120754	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm here to postpone the meeting until after lunch. The sitting will resume today at 1 p.m. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130002	We'll resume the meeting. Before we start on the ordinary point, there is today, on 16 November, an additional review, namely: the Minister for Taxation (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill no. L 109 (Proposal for a Law amending the Chocolate Tax Act, law on various excise duties, withholding tax law, law on the tax on consumption ice-cream, the Spirit Tax Act and the Beer and Wine Tax Act. on the cancellation of the indexing of certain excise duties, the abolition of a number of taxes and the amendment of the researcher's tax scheme, etc.) The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130035	The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl of the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130053	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for Justice for the report on the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol. We in the Liberal Alliance welcome the fact that on 29 April 2017, the Government concluded an agreement with Europol on operational and strategic cooperation. It is good that in this way the Danish police continue to have satisfactory access to Europol databases, which correspond almost to the direct access that the police had until 1 May 2017. As has also been said earlier, the Danish police do not have direct access to Europol's database, but can search through Danish-speaking staff. Denmark therefore continues to have a liaison officer at Europol headquarters in The Hague, and we welcome this in the Liberal Alliance. In cooperation to combat cross-border crime and terrorism, it is important to ensure that relevant information can be shared between EU countries. Both Denmark and the other European countries have an interest in this. Criminal organisations operating across borders in the Member States of the European Union will continue to be able to develop effectively and in cooperation between the authorities of the Member States of the European Union with the April agreement of this year. Then my speechwriter writes that we quietly note that the land did not fall by the "no' vote on 3 December 2015. It is so that when speechwriters write silent statements, they are never silent, but expressions of noisy behavior. So that's why I'm going to skip this passage. Instead, I would like to use this opportunity to thank our talented Danish negotiators and our EU partners and once again thank the Minister for Justice for his statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130307	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur, I see, will be Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130332	We don't have a speechwriter in the SF, so it's gonna be free from the liver. I would also like to thank the Minister for Justice for this statement. It reflects the reality of the matter, in other words that there was a referendum in which it became a 'no' to full participation in judicial cooperation. We were some who had recommended a yes we thought it would be a better solution that it would be a yes. But we also said, at least on the part of the SF, that we could probably get an agreement on Europol in isolation not as good as full membership, but, after all, probably satisfactory. We thought it was a great risk to take, but it ran the voters, and that is the way it is, and that must be respected. Then we have an agreement and, as the statement here shows, it does not give rise to any operational concerns, at least not in the short term. You can still operate as you have been able to do so so far, which means that at first this does not mean the big, dramatic changes. The problem lies slightly in the longer term, especially after the roll-out of the so-called QUEST, which is such a mobile system. There, according to the police, it will be more difficult for the Danish police to be able to go straight in and operate quickly so that there can be some challenges at that time. But we have to take that up when it really happens, and I also expect the government will address it when the time comes. So far, however, there is only one way to thank you for your statement and to say that we have reached an agreement which, on the basis of the conditions that followed the referendum, is satisfactory and that is what we need to work on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130537	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, and that went without the speakers. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130549	I've been trying to write a speech, I don't know if it's gonna last. On 2 November, Danish police officers were able to apply directly for the last time in the Europol criminal register, but after 2 November a Danish police officer must ask for a search. It carries out a Europol staff member and then the staff member returns to the Danish police officer with the answer. That means that we can no longer do a direct search ourselves, and that is the consequence of the fact that we are no longer a member of Europol. However, we have then reached an agreement that, according to the National Police's assessment, meets what Denmark was given the prospect of the Commission in December 2016. The agreement does not correspond to full membership, but in a number of important areas it is operationally satisfactory for the Danish police. This is certainly the best agreement we can get without being a member of Europol. The report here describes the new agreement and the consequences of it and the police's assessment of it. So all in all, this is a fine statement for which we are grateful and which we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130707	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader, and then it's Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130713	Thank you. Let me begin by saying that in the alternative, we are basically satisfied with the special agreement we are discussing today. Based on the framework provided by the December 2015 referendum to the government, this is basically a good agreement that will get Denmark as close to the core of Europol cooperation as possible, although we are not a full member of Europol. But that is precisely the point: we are not a full member of Europol cooperation, and that has consequences. We can see in the statement that some outlines of the challenges are beginning to emerge, not being part of Europol cooperation on an equal footing with the other Member States. Danish policemen and women are burdened with greater difficulty in carrying out their work because they do not have direct access to Europol's database. At the same time, it becomes less flexible to analyse and be proactive in the fight against crime. In essence, therefore, the special agreement does not offer us the same opportunities as we would have had if we had been a full member of the cooperation. Another aspect that is still unclear is the question of parliamentary control of Europol. For Europol is now seriously heading towards the supranational level and is generally stronger than before, which is why it is also very important for us that Europol's increased strength is closely monitored by strong parliamentary control. This is among other things. important to ensure that the balance between information sharing in the fight against crime and the right to privacy is kept in mind. The framework for this control has not yet been defined, and what Denmark's role will be in the control system as an EU country that is not fully on the wagon is still in the dark. It is our hope that the control group will have a strong voice so that Europol's development can really be controlled by the elected representatives. Let me conclude by saying that the alternative supports the agreement that has been negotiated home. But we must also be honest about the fact that it has consequences, that we have not become a full member of Europol cooperation and that it is becoming increasingly clear to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130921	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116130925	I have a question which follows on from something I mentioned in my own speech. After all, it is now fewer and fewer countries that are part of the European Union; Britain will soon come out completely, and that means something to their relationship with Europol. Is it the alternative's view that it is an advantage for the fight against crime in Europe that only EU countries can have full participation, or do we not have to find a model in which countries that are not part of the European Union can actively participate in the fight against crime on an equal footing? What is the alternative's position on this issue, because it is becoming very topical here in connection with Britain's withdrawal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131021	Of course, it is important for us to be able to cooperate widely in the fight against crime; I can hardly imagine anyone who disagrees with that. But there is a difference between being a part of the real cooperation where you lay the lines, where you decide what to do and how to cooperate in concrete terms. And there we see it as a very clear advantage to be part of Europol, and we have not concealed that at any time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131043	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131045	I understand that, in other words, the alternative sees a clear advantage in being part of Europol. What is just the problem is that the way in which Europol has been created makes it possible, for example, for Europol to do so. Norway, which is a member of the European Union, shall not be more than B member of Europol. Okay, our arrangement is better than Norway's, but at most they can be B-members. Countries such as Iceland or other non-EU countries that do not want to join the EU are B members in the fight against crime, and Britain goes from being an A member to a B member. And then what I am asking is: does the alternative believe that it is a good thing for the fight against crime, that it is precisely something that is for EU countries, or does the alternative believe that we will have to find cooperation for all European countries that meet democratic requirements, etc., that will help fight crime, so that Norway can also enter as a full member, so that Britain can be a full member, so that Switzerland can be a full member and Iceland can be a full member, etc. etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131151	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131152	Thank you. I think I understood the question for the first time, and I would like to reply exactly the same again, namely that we would like to have cooperation with all the countries that are not members of the European Union in the fight against crime, but there is just a difference between being a member and being able to sit at the table in terms of concrete agreement, what we should do, how we would like to deal with it, sit around and spar about the good ideas, etc. I would insist that we think that being a member of Europol is a really, very good idea and, of course, we must cooperate with other countries that are not members, but we will be stronger if we are a member, and we can clearly see that now, including in the statement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131228	Thank you very much to Mrs Josephine Fock. And the very last rapporteur is Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131237	Thank you very much. When we had the referendum on the abolition of the judicial reservation and on whether Denmark should be a full member of Europol, the Radical Left, as it will be known, recommended that we should abolish the reservation, say no to organised crime, terrorism, crime in general in its new technological forms, and share our sovereignty with all the others in the European family who wanted to share their sovereignty with us, so that together we could win sovereignty over the problems we cannot cope with alone because crime has become cross-border. We still have that basic view in the Radical Left. We believe in solidarity in Europe, and we believe that by uniting and sharing our sovereignty with each other we can go much further than if each country has their ideas and their reservations about what it should be like. And yes, it requires compromises. This requires that you sit down and not only want to feel as you could imagine, but that you listen to each other and find common solutions. That is why we were sorry to say no, but we were particularly sorry because we think that the Danish people were somewhat deceived during the election campaign. We were accused of a scaremongering when we said that we could not get full membership of Europol without giving up our legal reservation. We were shot in the shoes, that now it was once again the big nightmare scenario and that it was easy to say no without consequences and still become a full and complete member of Europol. The chairman of the Danish People's Party also guaranteed in a television live show that, if that were not the case, he would certainly be the first to offer the Danes a new referendum on Europol alone. I cannot read the statement any other than that it is now crystal clear that the Danish police are being put differently from their colleagues in the rest of Europe. Yes, as sir. Søren Søndergaard has said many times, there will still be access to the common registers, but the way to access them will be very different. And I think seconds count when we talk about organized crime when we talk about crimes like terrorist events, where in just a few seconds and minutes you have to try to find out: who is the perpetrator? What network does he have or she? How's everything? I think it actually matters whether you can use modern technology and, like all other policemen in Europe, you can get in touch quickly or whether you have to find a phone like that, call some people who sit somewhere behind a curtain that can then be searched in a database that everyone else has direct access to. So for me, it actually matters that we look into a future where having modern technology that ensures faster access to those networks and faster action can actually make a difference. In any case, whether you think there is a big difference or you think there is a small difference, there is a difference. And I think it would suit those parties that recommended a 'no' on the premise that this would have no impact whatsoever on Denmark's ability to fully join Europol and the police's ability to combat organised crime, at least to recognise that it had an impact and that, in relation to police reports and assessments, it would have an increasing significance and would mean an ever-increasing deterioration. I cannot read the statement in any other way. That is why I must also say that we will be following this development very closely. Of course, we are behind our joint agreement. That was the compromise we could have. We welcome the fact that once again Denmark's very talented officials have succeeded in making up for the result we obtained, by an incredibly good will of our European colleagues, but I cannot make myself say that it is in Denmark's interest that it is in the interests of our police and that it is in the interest of the Danes to have only half a cooperation rather than a full cooperation on security in Europe. In those words, we shall be following it closely. It is true, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said, that we are not prepared to jump into a referendum here and now, but I would say that there is not much to do until I think that we should ask that the Danish People's Party stand by its promise and make a limited referendum on Europol if it is the case that the Danish police have considerably reduced working conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131732	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131738	Well, the Radical Left does not want a referendum anyway. As far as I remember, it was in December 2016 that the Radical Left indicated that they wanted a referendum on Europol, in view of the fact that it was not possible to reach an agreement at that time. But you're so retarded about that. Peace be to it. Well, that's good to know. You don't really know what to say to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, because I believe that all the other parties in the Assembly have recognised that there was probably some element of scaremongering when we had this Europol vote. But it denies the Radical Left loudly and handsomely. And even though we have an agreement that shows in all practice that we have access to the same information, we even sit on the board; we certainly do not have the right to vote and to speak, but since you never vote, it does not matter, yet the Radical Left insists that this is the end of the earth. Well, I have to say to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, I don't understand. It must be increasingly difficult to be radical when one speaks directly contrary to the facts. In other words, there is no trace of self-examination on the part of the Radical Left when it comes to the scaremongering of child pornography and paedophiles, and I do not know what? Or has one just realised that any kind of trust in the population has been lost in advance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131855	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116131857	Let me be precise about referendums. We want a referendum that gives the Danes the chance to have full membership of Europol. As far as timing is concerned, we note that this is not the time, because it obviously requires us to be a wider circle which thinks it is a good idea. However, it is our wish that we should have the opportunity to become a full member of Europol. It is because today's report from the Ministry of Justice, from the police themselves, shows that it makes a difference. It is true that we have access to the registers, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. But that is also true and that is just what I am asking the 'no' parties to recognise that there will be a difference between how Danish cops and all other cops in Europe can access those registers. And Mr. Søren Søndergaard can shake his head a hundred times, but there is And not wanting to admit it, I just think is shameless. We must at least stand by what the police themselves make known in the written statement that any Dane can go in and make sure that I quote correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132008	Yes, but try to hear this: well, the fact is that the Radical Left wants a total crackdown on the reservation of the law and of foreigners. After all, the Radical Left would like the European Union to assume responsibility for the territory of foreigners in its entirety. That would be a dream scenario for the Radical Left, for then, like this whole debate could be closed down here in the Folketing and say that there are some wise heads down in the European Parliament, down in the Council, who are taking a stand on it. So it's not surprising, then, that sir... Martin Lidegaard feels the way he feels, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard says now. What is molbo-like, according to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, is what has happened so far. It has happened in this way everywhere that the telephone has been picked up and telephoned someone who has then provided the information about Europol. Well, sir. Martin Lidegaard tries to conjure up a picture that reality looks completely different than reality really does.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132054	I understand, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is trying to make this all of a sudden about anything other than police cooperation and Europol. Foreigners need to be re-incorporated. When the Danish People's Party arrives at this point in their arguments, it is always an expression of the fact that one is aware that one has a weak argument here. And you have. Normally the Danish People's Party stands and I would like to acknowledge that, but here you have got yourself out on a galley where we just have to see that you are not friends with the police, that you do not give the Danish police the best work opportunities. It is true that technology has evolved, because it was also spoken on the telephone. This has been done for many years. Now you do something else that is more effective. And the fact that we say no to that is molboyish.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132140	Thank you. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132141	I just want to hear what the radical rapporteur means by the statement: QUEST provides direct access to Europol's databases.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132150	What's the matter here is that you can get access. It is, after all, a system that is constantly evolving throughout. We've both been to a briefing about it. In the first place, it is a limited amount of data that can be accessed directly. If, for example, you're gonna have to... If you stop a person at the border crossing and search, you can immediately find out: if he is in another country's database, there are things you can go ahead with investigating etc.? And it is then a system that will be developed gradually, one must understand so that one can have access to more and more. I do not know whether that was the answer the rapporteur asked for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132226	I just think it's too bad. Now we had the rapporteurs of the Alternative and the SF who presented some views on this. We disagreed. But there wasn't a factually wrong thing, and when mr. Martin Lidegaard says that QUEST provides direct access to Europol's databases, so it is just quite wrong. That is simply not true. As Mr. Martin Lidegaard now says, it is true that the only thing that QUEST gives access to if we take the Danish model is the name, date of birth and then whether you are registered somewhere, and then you have to call anyway. I'm telling you, sir. Martin Lidegaard said that people in Denmark would be detained on the basis of their name or their date of birth? Then you have to call the system anyway. As far as technology is concerned, it is relatively simple to have an app made in the Danish police so that if you take a picture of something, you don't have to call it, because then it goes directly to the people we have sitting there who can check it out. So technology can also be used if we want to. But I just think that's what slightly poisoned the referendum campaign... that there are some things that aren't right. We agree that if, at some point, essential information cannot be accessed within a reasonable period of time, then we must look at it. But let's wait until that happens. That is not the case today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132350	Thank you for that final remark. When you start on that, I think it's a vocabulary game, like Mr. Søren Søndergaard here started on, so I also think that it is because one is a little bit pressured on the argument. I have not said anything wrong from this platform. It will be the case that this technology is evolving continuously, and it provides direct access to assess whether people are in the system that is not there today. That's what I called a direct access to the register. It is true that you do not have access to all the information in the register, but there is certainly a difference. And as it says in the paper, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard is sitting with him down there, so it will be more and more accessible by all accounts. That is why I am just delighted that Mr. Søren Søndergaard acknowledges that if the deteriorated opportunities become even more deteriorated, too, than Enhedslisten can live with, then after all, you are also ready to look at it. But both the Danish People's Party and the Enhedslisten attack on me here is an indirect recognition that there is a difference between whether you are a member of Europol or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132451	Thank you very much, sir. Martin Lidegaard. There are no more brief comments. Then we will have to address the final remarks of the Minister of Justice. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116132500	Thank you for that, I think, positive reception. There have been many different words, and this is the way to get back to the original discussion, but I will deal with the statement. I would like to thank you for the many positive statements that have been made about the statement we are debating here today. When we negotiated the political agreement on Denmark's association with Europol last December, we did not really know whether we would have any connection with Europol after 1 May 2017. But we succeeded and we got a cooperation agreement with Europol. It is basically a good agreement that ensures that Danish police can continue to be close to Europol's cooperation. The agreement means that Denmark may continue to have liaison officers at Europol headquarters in The Hague. The agreement ensures that Denmark can continue to participate in the analysis projects in which we participated per year. 1 May 2017 and that Denmark can be invited to participate in new analysis projects or existing analysis projects in which we did not participate per year. 1 May 2017. The agreement also allows Denmark to be invited to participate in Europol's Management Board meetings and in the operational meeting forum as an observer. The agreement also means that we will continue to contribute to the financing of Europol, but the agreement also means that the Danish police will not have the same tools in the fight against cross-border crime as colleagues in the other countries involved in Europol. It is about the fact that the Danish police no longer have direct access to Europol's information system and that the Danish police are not allowed to implement the new IT system QUEST, which provides access to part of Europol's information from, for example, mobile phones. It's all known matter. It was clear to all of us that it was clear to all of us during the negotiations on the political agreement last year that that was how the conditions were. This is confirmed in the written statement which forms the basis of today's debate. On the other hand, with the Europol agreement, we have ensured that Europol staff, the national experts, are ready to serve the Danish police. This means in concrete terms that Danish police can contact a national expert when Denmark needs to seek information from Europol. Four national experts have now been recruited to serve the Danish police. Two of them are located with the National Police, while the other two work at Europol headquarters in The Hague. Previously, as you know, the Danish police had direct access to the EIS. The difference, then, is that instead of looking now, the police must contact a Europol official who then does so. It is clearly an advantage here that the scheme has been implemented in such a way that two of the national experts are located with the National Police here in Denmark. As I mentioned earlier, the Europol Agreement means that QUEST will not be available to Denmark. QUEST provides access to part of Europol's information from mobile devices so that an officer on the street can access the information, for example from his mobile phone. We do not have that access, and this means in concrete terms that when, for example, a foreign person suspected of engaging in criminal activities occurs, a search on the spot will not be possible on the person from his mobile phone in order to determine whether he or she is registered with Europol for example. crime in other EU countries. Before anyone asks me if you can get the same information by answering the phone and calling that yes, you can get the information. The police colleagues in the other countries who are members of Europol will shortly have that access. At the moment there is a project in Spain, and it is then expected to roll out to the rest. The countries that are part of Europol will then be able to do so in a moment, so to speak, more flexible and more rapid access to some of Europol's data. It is, of course, difficult to say how many Danish officers would have been allowed to use QUEST if Denmark had continued to be part of Europol. Based on the fact that, in general, special search apps are being deployed in these years, the National Police would have spread the QUEST to all relevant police officers. The roll-out of special apps includes about 8,000-10,000 employees in Danish politics, and that is among other things. Therefore, the National Police estimates that several thousand Danish police officers would have had access to QUEST. This assessment also emphasises that the forms of crime covered by Europol's mandate are tasks typically carried out in connection with the general patrol activities of the Danish police or as part of tasks associated with border and alien controls. To sum up, because everyone has read the statement, and we have discussed it today, I would say that the agreement with Europol, taken together, is in line with what Denmark was promised last year by the Commission. I welcome that. The agreement does not correspond to membership of Europol, but the agreement is, on a number of essential points, operationally satisfactory for the Danish police. I have also understood in today's debate that when it is operationally satisfactory for the Danish police, it is interpreted in different ways, but at least I heard Mr. Søren Søndergaard understands quite clearly that this meant that it is in fact close to being what it is today. That is why I am not standing here looking backwards and saying: what could we have done, what could we not have done? I am, in fact, soberly concerned about what we have now and where we stand today. The fight against serious cross-border crime is a priority and we will therefore be following this development very closely. After all, it is also an element of the political agreement that all the parties here in the Danish Parliament have concluded with each other in December last year that there is to be an annual review of the cooperation and how it looks, and the situation of the Danish police in relation to Europol, with a statement to the Folketing followed by a debate such as the one we have today. So we are watching closely that the Danish police continue to be close to Europol's cooperation and how it develops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133207	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133212	The Minister of Justice was again mentioned here that Denmark does not have direct access to the EIS. It may well be something where people think: Oh, we don't have direct access, it's a disaster. That is why I should just like to ask the Minister of Justice to confirm once again that what is really at issue is that there are still people at the NEC who can do these searches and that the main difference from the past with regard to searches is, in fact, that these people's paychecks come from Europol instead of the National Police. That's the way it is. You may have put up a curtain, but the main difference is that the pay slip comes from somewhere else. In practical terms, you can obtain exactly the same information now as you had before.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133309	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133311	Thank you. Yes, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133315	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133318	That was nice. We can then ask about something else, too, and it is a question of Great Britain. The United Kingdom has already announced that they will withdraw from the European Union and hence from Europol, and the United Kingdom, as far as I remember, is about to file about a year ago. 40% of the information to the EIS. The United Kingdom will then probably not have access to this mobile search app QUEST, which has been so mentioned today. What does the Minister for Justice think of Britain's withdrawal from Europol? So it is not an insignificant member of Europol... that will have an impact on Denmark's ability to develop this agreement in line with Britain's need for continued close association with Europol?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133405	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133407	That's what you call a really good question. Right now there are Brexit negotiations, which is why I must refrain from going into a specific area. I don't think it's gonna help anyone or anything, we're gonna start picking out individual elements. But it is clear that this is a huge challenge. It is a huge challenge if Britain is no longer involved. And it is clear that when they resign from the European Union, it would be strange if they were to be better off than Denmark; that is what I would think. Well, I think that would be very weird. Then you have to see what these negotiations can do, what they can show, because everything else equals you could see that there might be some interest in still having an approach to these systems. But I just don't want to go any closer. Brexit negotiations are something we are looking at together, and I believe that we, as Resort Ministers, must be very careful about throwing ourselves into individual elements. I think there'll be too much guessing about it if I start throwing myself into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133500	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133502	For the sake of good order, I would just like to ask the Minister of Justice to confirm that if we had received a yes and if we had been a member of Europol at supranational level and had lost the opportunity to report us out, etc., and if the police plans for the roll-in of the QUEST search system in Denmark had gone through and been implemented, it would not have provided direct access to Europol's databases, but only for a very limited number of information on the name, date of birth, and whether they had been registered elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133544	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133545	Now Mr. Søren Søndergaard to some plans, I think that was handed over to the Ministry when we had the examination of the statement here. So if we had got a yes it would be so little if and if there is no doubt that we would have had QUEST, which is now being rolled out in Spain and will soon be coming to the other countries, and there we would have had the direct access with a mobile app to search and find out what it says about some people in these databases, and see if it was some people you should be interested in, i.e. the hit no hit challenge. I'm talking a little bit black here, I get that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133635	Yeah, 'cause that's not right. The reality is that the system prepared by the police, if it were to be a yes, was a system which meant that you could get a very small amount of information which could be important for further searching, and yet you should have contact with the people we have to examine it and get them to search the system. But when I ask, it is because I can acknowledge that making a telephone call is a matter for me, for example. sitting with a passport, maybe maybe a little difficult, and there may be some who don't get it done. But there is also the possibility that Danish police will develop an app, so that you can, for example, develop an app. Just put the cell phone down on the passport, and then a message goes directly to the people who have to investigate it, and then they check it and send a message back right away. Then you just have to do it, and you don't have to call it at all. There is what I want to ask the Minister for Justice: will the Minister for Justice actively work to develop such simple technical solutions, which will make it easier for the Danish police and which do not cause any problems in relation to the agreement, the security of registers or anything else, and that we may be able to discuss them among the parties behind the agreement that has been reached?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133756	To begin with, of course, there is a difference between whether, when you have technical tools, you can use them directly or whether you have to by way of a detour, but leave it at that. After all, search apps are being developed in the Danish police at the moment. Whether it is possible for something to be put into this connection and how it should be done, I am of course happy to look at that, but I do not think I dare make any statements about that today, because the question is what kind of agreement we have, how it should be implemented, what the rest will say about it, and what the possibilities are. But we must make it as easy as possible for the Danish police. We always have an interest in doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133837	Thank you to the Minister for Justice for today's work. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The report shall not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133851	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Thomas Jensen of the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116133909	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, our rapporteur on gas safety, Mrs Karin Gaardsted, could not be here today. So I'm giving the speech on behalf of her. In Denmark we have a very high level of safety when it comes to gas installations, gas installations and gas equipment. We want to maintain the high level of safety, because it is absolutely essential that both humans, livestock and equipment are protected in the best possible way. The bill must ensure that we continue to maintain the level of safety so as to minimise the risk of poisoning, explosion and fire. The basic framework for the gas area has not been reviewed in the last 25 years. Although there have been various knob shots with this and that, we now need to create a new, up-to-date legislation with simplified and clear announcements. For there have been many changes in the industry over the past two decades, for example. biogas production and use of upgrade units, just to mention two areas that have been developing rapidly. At the same time, it is time to bring in digitalisation as a tool for both creating better coherence, overview and control. Digitisation makes it possible to conduct register coordination for control purposes and to develop and use digital solutions to facilitate processing and communication with the Danish Safety Authority and the gas distribution companies. This means that more risk-based controls can be carried out where controls are targeted where the highest risk is estimated. I note that in a number of consultation responses there is a clear demand for clarity as to which authority is responsible for control, where there are several authorities involved in the same case. I can also see that in the consultation note the Minister will respond to this request in the drafting of the notice, so that we and the consultation parties look forward to it. It is important that such a significant and developing area as the whole area of gas safety is in the top legislative form, and it is important to make it easy for companies to act so that unnecessary bureaucracy does not slow down the future. We Social Democrats agree with that and therefore we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134123	Thank you very much, sir. Thomas Jensen for today's work. There are no brief comments, so we move on quickly to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134130	I think I can do it a little shorter than the Social Democrat rapporteur, although he was also relatively brief. The proposal for a law here is, of course, a legislative proposal designed to create a new overall framework for the safety of gas installations, gas installations and other gas equipment, and it will then have to be translated into a technical regulation. The draft law makes a revised version in relation to the fact that it is almost 25 years since we last implemented legislation in this area. During the 25 years, many new activities have started. New and more technically smart and more advanced solutions have been introduced in relation to improving the safety of gas installations in operation in Denmark. Therefore, it is of course good that we now have updated legislation in this area, and in this respect the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134228	Thank you. Nor are there any brief comments here, so we move on to the next rapporteur. It's sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134238	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, we are modernising and simplifying the existing law on gas installations and appliances. This should make it easier to operate in the gas sector in Denmark. It maintains the level of safety of installations, installations and equipment, both for persons, livestock and buildings, but ensures a slightly greater flexibility for companies operating in the sector. And this is done, as the previous rapporteurs have already said, by introducing a new, flexible and functional regulation to replace the 25-year-old and very detailed regulatory framework in the area of gas safety. Greater flexibility is created through so-called functional regulation. We also have uniform legislation so that it is more consistent with regulation in our neighbouring countries. For example, we are abolishing the so-called DG marking, which is a national system. It is an administrative and economic burden for business, and by following common international rules instead of having national special arrangements, we ensure that safety is controlled while reducing the trouble. Control is also being modernised, understood in the sense that it is becoming more risk-based. And it is, in fact, very sensible to pursue where the risk is greatest; it provides the best security. Finally, the Minister is entitled to lay down rules necessary for Denmark to comply with its obligations under a future EU gas appliances regulation. And it is a very sensible proposal that will have some old rules cleaned up, and that makes a great deal of sense. That is why we support it on the part of the Left and I have promised to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134422	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There are no brief comments, so we turn to Mr. Pelle Dragsted from the Enhedslisten, who is the watchman here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134434	Thank you, President. We from Enhedslisten can also support this law as a starting point. The aim is, after all, to establish a separate legislation on the safety of gas installations, gas installations and gas equipment in relation to persons, livestock or property, where the aim is to minimise the risk associated with, for example, gas installations and gas equipment. explosion, fire, poisoning, and whatever else could result from this type of installation. It is not new in itself that we have legislation in this area, but we need an update and an adjustment, and that is what this law is supposed to ensure. So far, so good. There are also a number of simplifications in the law. It is also written in the comments that the proposal aims to make it cheaper and easier to operate in Denmark, and there is nothing wrong with that as a general rule. But it is clear that if this happens at the expense of security, there is something wrong with it. The purpose of this law must therefore be to ensure a balance between safety and possible reductions for companies which, in our view, must be of absolute benefit to safety. So for us it is absolutely essential to be able to support the law that it becomes quite clear that there is no compromise on safety in any way whatsoever to create what you write, namely to make it cheaper and easier to operate in Denmark. That is why we will look into it in committee and see whether we can obtain a clear guarantee from the Minister, including that the simplifications proposed do not compromise in any way on safety or create less security than the one we have with the legislation in force. We have also noted that there are a number of consultation responses which propose a number of amendments to the law. We look forward to seeing the government's response to that as well. So, as a starting point, we are positive, but we also have some small concerns which we hope we will be able to deny during the day or during the committee procedure. And then I have promised to salute the alternative and say that they are also positive with the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134703	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134710	Thank you, sir. President. I have to tell you that we can support this bill. We see this as a simplification proposal, changing some relatively old rules in this area and moving to a more flexible and functional regulation. Even though I have to admit that this is a complicated substance... I'm not an expert on gas plants... it sounds to us as if a good balance has been found here with good legislation and good safety. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134753	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and welcome to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134809	As our business rapporteur cannot be here, I should just like to say that the Radical Left can also support this bill. I do not think there is any reason for me to repeat the content of this. But these are some sensible technical changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134823	Thank you. There are no more relevant rapporteurs present, so allow me to give the floor to the Minister for Industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116134832	Thank you for your many positive comments. The primary purpose of the legislative proposal we are debating today is to modernise and simplify the rules on the safety of gas installations and gas installations and other gas equipment. There has also been a comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted of the Enhedslisten that security is the most important thing, and I fully agree with that. That is also the whole purpose and framework of the proposal here. The fact is that most of the rules in this area are 25 years old. With the bill, we are proposing to replace the very detailed regulation of the gas area with a more flexible and functional regulation. The proposal must make it easier and more flexible for businesses to comply with the rules and develop new products while maintaining the current level of safety for humans, animals and property. It is important to maintain that this draft law provides an overall framework, which will subsequently be completed by a number of notices setting out the technical safety requirements. We have a great deal of focus on them, and that is a high priority. A more functional set of rules means that we move away from setting very specific requirements and dictate certain solutions and methods. Instead, we define certain minimum safety requirements, which companies are given the freedom to fill out themselves. I believe this will help to strengthen the incentive for innovation and innovation, as well as giving Danish companies better conditions to compete globally. So my expectation is that it will increase productivity and competition in this area. These new rules will not affect the level of safety. Experience from our neighbouring countries shows that it has succeeded in establishing more simple and flexible rules in neighbouring countries without having adverse consequences for the level of safety. Finally, part of the purpose of the new regulation of requirements is both to uniform across comparable products and to make it better equivalent to the regulation in our neighbouring countries. That is why we insist that, as at present, the same requirements are laid down for gaseous appliances not covered by the Gas Equipment Regulation as for gaseous appliances covered by the Regulation. On the other hand, we propose to abolish the DG authorisation, which is a national special scheme. So all in all, without any security implications, this will mean that it will be easier and simpler. The industry has been continuously involved in the work on the bill and has had the opportunity to bid in with proposals both before and during the process. The industry is also, of course, invited to meet on the specific announcements, which are intended to implement the legislative proposal and to give concrete form to the rules for which companies will have to work in the future. With those words, I would like to thank you once again for your comments and I look forward to the further consideration of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135126	Thank you. And since the President is also in favour of innovation and innovation, we allow ourselves to be somewhat dispensing with the agenda and welcome Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135140	Thank you. I am sorry both to the President and to the House and to the Minister that I was late. It was an exciting meeting over at the National Bank that dragged out a little bit. I can say that, overall, we also support this bill on the whole. We have a concern, which is also mentioned in the consultation answers, and it is the disappearance of the DG marking, where we see that the government is restricting to the minimum requirements of EU legislation. We see this as an increased risk, so we will ask a few questions about this in committee. The minister also mentioned briefly that it was a Danish special rule, but it is one that we think should continue to be there. The disappearance of the DG marking is all we have in relation to the bill. Perhaps we will table an amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135243	Thank you. Then I should like to ask the Minister if this gives rise to any comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135303	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Erik Christensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135321	Thank you. After all, it is a law that came into being on the basis that Danish Crown at Bornholm in spring 2014 was close to closing. The butchery was in a very stressful situation, you might say, and if it closed, it would have tremendous consequences for the local community. To pave the way for a solution, the former SR government, backed by DF, Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservatives, suggested that we make a 3-year attempt with an employee investment company. The purpose of the company model was to secure Danish jobs by allowing employees to deposit up to 71⁄2%. of their salary, up to a maximum of 30,000 kroner. a year. It is the case that the bill also stated that a review was to be carried out no later than this parliamentary year 2017-18, and that is what we have to take a position on today, i.e. an evaluation of whether the law has worked as intended. And it has to be said. One company has been set up at Bornholm, which has worked quite satisfactorily, and the slaughterhouse is working today, so we are very pleased that it has been planned that it is now being made permanent that these employee investment companies can be created. So we can support changing the law to become permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135446	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135451	Thank you. I think we are many parties in the Folketing, including the rapporteur's party and my own, who see it as a very positive development that we could have a higher degree of employee involvement in companies, especially those that are competitive or where there could be acquisitions of foreign capital funds or whatever. It is therefore simply a question of increasing employee involvement, but also the influence that employees could have. And one of the criticisms we had in 2014 was that we thought it was the right step to take, but that there was not the right balance between the risk that employees should take in terms of investing and the impact they could have on the company. What is the rapporteur's position on this, and could this be an opportunity to look at the law again and say: in principle, this is the right way to go, but there is not the right balance, and we want to correct that here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135551	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135552	After all, there is a balance between employee representatives and management on the board. In special cases this rule can then be waived, and it is for the Danish Business Administration to decide on the grounds which are then written into the Staff Regulations that it is not going to follow what is actually the general rule. And we are quite satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135614	But then the rapporteur also replied to the end of the day that the Social Democratic Party is satisfied with this. We do not think the balance is right. It is true that we have to follow the form of the law, and that is what we want to change, and that is why we will probably come up with some amendments in order to get the balance a little more in favour of those who really have something at stake in our optics. And I hope that the rapporteur will at least be open to looking at this despite the clear endorsement of the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135649	I would like to say again, is it true that the general rule is that there must be an equitable distribution. Then there may be some very special situations that the Danish Business Authority must decide on if is enough argument for not following what is the general rule. That is why I say that we are quite satisfied. It can be said that the company that has then been set up here has not been a problem with.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135709	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135710	No, but it cannot be said that it has spread to other companies either. Some of the criticism that was raised at the time this was adopted by the current chairman and chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities today, Mr President. Christian Juhl, who was the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten at the time, was after all that there was a problem for employees who were made redundant and could thus, as it were, lose their deposits, just as there would be problems at the closure of the company, because the part of the contribution that was held in the company was not covered by, for example, the protection of employees, i.e. the Guarantee Fund of Employees, as the rest of the salary was. This resulted in significantly less protection for employees compared to other types of companies and what was gained in return in the form of influence on the management rights of the company was severely limited. After the experience of recent years, what is the rapporteur's view of this criticism?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135809	You might say that when you choose to buy employee shares as an employee, you take that risk, you can say as you do when you generally buy shares. There is a risk in buying shares, and I think that is something you have to respect. Nobody's forcing the employee to buy these employee shares.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135830	That depends on what is meant by the imposition, because now we were in a situation where the slaughterhouse in question threatened to close down the company and make the employees unemployed, unless they bought the shares so coercive and coercive, that is something you can discuss. That is, of course, the concern, namely that it will happen in other cases, i.e. that companies that lack capital, if you may say so, will use the socially insecure situation of their employees in the context of the threat of closure to obtain cheap capital for the company. One can discuss whether it is a reasonable power relationship between the company's management and the employees concerned. However, is the rapporteur not worried that similar situations will arise in the future where companies which may not have been profitable enough will ask their employees to ensure that, if I may say so, the company keeps its nose above water?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135929	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116135930	Now, of course, I would like to say that I am not generally such a concerned person, but if the concern which Mr. Pelle Dragsted, just as he says here, is almost going to be a rule forward, so I am sure that there will be a majority in the Folketing who will then look at the law to see if there is a need to change it. But worries, you might say, you can either have or not have. I just have to say that I kind of believe that this works as intended. If the opposite turns out, I am quite sure that there will be a majority in the Folketing to look at it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140004	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. And welcome to Mr. Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140012	The bill here repeals the revision clause in the law adopted and adopted by a large majority here in the Folketing back in 2014. This happened in a very specific situation which arose in connection with the debate on Danish Crown's survival as a production company on Bornholm, as also the Social Democratic rapporteur said. The situation made us have to be creative in our approach to what we could do to strengthen efforts to maintain production jobs at Bornholm, while not creating a model that would undermine free competition. This is where this initiative on employee investment companies has one of the clear advantages. The Danish People's Party was not really so worried about the discussion about whether it would be biased or whether there would be people who would be forced to buy shares. Because we thought, in fact, back then, and so do we today, that there was no alternative to a progressive approach to securing these jobs. We simply had to take some of the initiatives that we could without taking a stranglehold on free competition and to ensure that Bornholm was a place where pigs could also be produced and slaughtered. Now it's been three years. We have had the revision of the law in relation to whether it has had intended or unintended consequences. And we really think, in the context of the evaluation, that there is good sense in continuing and that we still have this opportunity. Then it is true that not many other companies have benefited from the law. You can also choose to say that is a sign that the Danish companies are actually doing very well and that they do not need solutions of this nature. So we want the initiative to continue to win good from the Danish People's Party and we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140224	Thank you for that, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140234	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have said, history is the situation on Bornholm. When an agreement was reached on a food growth plan in 2014, it contained a model for employee investment companies. After all, it was Danish Crown's department in Rønne that was involved and the scheme was targeted; it was there that it was first put into service. The agreement was also that the scheme should be evaluated and the evaluation has shown that the scheme has worked. It has only worked in one place and, as the Danish People's Party's rapporteur put it, it may be that it is because it is generally much better for the Danish economy and that there are fewer companies that have been under pressure. That would probably be the best explanation. However, when the scheme, on the other hand, has proved to be useful in specific situations, it makes sense that we are now repealing the revision clause and also leaving the possibility available if others should end up in a situation where such a company's construction could be the way to secure and maintain jobs in Denmark. That is why, of course, we support the draft law which repeals the revision clause. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140354	Thank you. Then we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140409	There should be no doubt whatsoever that we, on the part of Enhedslisten, would like employees, employees, to be much more co-owners, owners of, and had influence on, the returns of the companies where they go to work every day and in which they create the values that are produced. That is why it is a crucial part of our political project to help develop and support an increase in the democratisation of working life and our economy, among other things. by creating different incentives to make employees co-owners, owners of new and existing companies. Therefore, the idea of this employee investment company can immediately be very enticing. The problem was, in this case, that it was a bit of a gun offer that the Rønne employees got. Because if we remember what was going on that summer, the message was that either we take some of your salary as an investment in and capital for the company, or we close your workplace and move to Lithuania, or where it was considered moving out to. And this may not be the best starting point for increased employee involvement and democratisation of a company. As I mentioned in a question to a former rapporteur, one might also ask how much voluntaryness there really is in this model. That is why we also voted against the experimental scheme and were not included in the original agreement which made it possible, and we did so because we did not think it was done on a reasonable basis and, to a large extent, was a way, if I may say so, to push the immediate wage costs down on more than anything else to secure some capital for the company. We were also concerned that there was not a proper model for those who were dismissed and who could not take out their deposits. There was also no clear guarantee of the return on this contribution, and it was very, very limited the influence of the employees on their investments. That is why we also tabled a large number of amendments at the time. It was my colleague, Christian Juhl, who was the rapporteur and dug himself into it very much, and there was also criticism from a large number of Danish trade unions of the model that was there. Again, it was not because one could not see the sense of ensuring that employees and employees more take over or become co-owners of the companies in which they work, it is, of course, a sound socialist way of thinking but because the model was not reasonable and did not allow the influence to keep up with the investments. So it also follows that we cannot support lifting the revision clause and making it permanent. We will, hopefully, put forward a number of proposals that will help to increase the co-ownership and influence of employees, consumers, ordinary people in our businesses and our economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140748	Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. There are no brief comments, and that is why I welcome Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116140805	Thank you very much for that, President. As several people have said, the reason for this bill is, after all, the scheme introduced in 2014 on the basis that the slaughterhouse in Rønne on Bornholm was going bankrupt with a huge loss of staff if it had happened. The solution then became the opportunity to set up a so-called employee investment company, where employees could put money into the company, secure it some capital and thus the company's survival. This is the revision provision that was made at the time, which will now be repealed, so that in future it will be possible also for others to set up such employee investment companies. One of the good things about living and living in a liberal society like the Danish one is that people can get together and organize themselves in many different ways. It can be seen among other things. the many different types of enterprise that exist. There are sole proprietorships, ApSs, A/Ss, cooperative societies, etc. You can organize yourself in many different ways. There is a diversity, and that really means that there are a large number of experiments that are being carried out, and then you just have to see what works best and it creates wealth, and it really creates some knowledge that everyone benefits from. That is why we can also support the possibility of setting up such an employee investment company if you wish. That is why, of course, we can support this proposal. We believe that the scheme has improved, and we support and support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141016	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard from the Radicals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141032	This temporary scheme of employee investment and shares was implemented under the SR government in 2014, and we think it has been a success, and we can also see that there is broad support for the scheme and therefore also support that it is being made permanent.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141052	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the Socialist People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141105	As I also expressed in my question to the Social Democrat rapporteur, we believe that it is quite the right way to try to set up a framework for more employees to become joint owners of companies. This has a large number of positive consequences in our optics: Employee participation, securing a company in Danish hands.At least, it must be assumed that there is a much greater chance of a better working relationship. It has been a wish from the SF for decades to have a business sector that is more characterised by employee participation and employee ownership, and now the Liberal Alliance rapporteur has just gone out, but I actually agree with him on one point: it is good that we have a wide range of different types of company. However, they are not entirely equal because they are characterised by quite different legislation, regulation and frameworks, in relation to what is possible. So, like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, we support and want to promote forms of company that guarantee employee ownership to a greater extent. When we were very critical of this bill back in 2014, it was precisely because we didn't think the balance was there. There was a threat that the slaughterhouse would have to close if part of its salary was not invested. On the other hand, you couldn't be sure if you got a bill and thus lost your deposit. There was not the employee protection and involvement that we wanted. So in this way we actually see this as an opportunity to table a number of amendments, which I hope, of course, can be supported. The LO then writes in their consultation answer that they also see it as a very natural occasion to carry out a major study on this particular area, not specifically the Bornholm case or this bill, but a general study on employee ownership, cooperatives, cooperatives, etc., and we would like to support that from the SF. The Minister writes in his reply to the LO that a study on entrepreneurship has been initiated. I don't think that's exactly what the LO means. But it can be fine in itself, and we would like to support it and think it is very relevant to get some more knowledge about this area. So, what does it mean for productivity to keep jobs in Denmark? What does this mean for the fact that artificial tax structures may not be concluded, or for foreign capital funds to buy up Danish companies etc.? So we find this very interesting and we would like to support it. And we only think it makes sense when we have this bill on the table. In itself, we do not think the draft law is good enough, and that is why, as I said, we will table a series of amendments before we can say whether we will support L 74.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141450	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we go to the Minister for Industry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141456	Thank you and thank you for the generally positive comments. After all, the proposal is that we will make the experimental scheme on employee investment companies permanent. Back in 2014, the then SR government, together with DF, V, LA and K, introduced a 3-year trial scheme on employee investment companies as part of the Food Safety Plan agreement. The aim has been to allow employees to inject money into the company in which they are employed. It is commendable, good and positive. The funds provided should be used for the modernisation and development of the company in order to ensure growth and jobs. Since the adoption of the scheme, one employee investment company has been established, which is Danish Crown's department in Rønne. It follows directly from the law on employee investment companies that the law must be evaluated no later than three years after its entry into force to examine whether the desired effect has been achieved in the form of increased investment in the companies for which the employee investment companies are to operate. For this reason, the Danish Business Authority has carried out an evaluation of the law in early summer. The main conclusion is that the established employee investment company has had the desired effect in terms of maintaining new investments in the company. Moreover, it cannot be ruled out that at a later stage there may be a need to set up more employee investment companies. Therefore, we in the government want to keep the opportunity to establish employee investment companies in Denmark. The consultation of the draft law has also shown that there is a broad consensus among stakeholders that the scheme should be made permanent. In those words, I look forward to a constructive discussion of the draft law in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141639	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141645	Thank you. In evaluating this, which is the reason why this scheme is intended to be made permanent, I have not been able to find any immediate information on the returns on the capital invested. Has the Minister any information as to what the return has been for the employees during the period in question of the part of their salary that has not been paid but instead invested ^ or other of the type of financial overview of what is actually in this for the employees?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141721	I do not have any data on this, but I would very much like to find a possible question in committee. But you could say that the whole structure here is voluntary. I mean, you can't be pushed down in pay for another return later. It's something you have to agree to, if it is. I do not have any data on it, but I would like to try to examine it for a possible committee question.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141741	To be honest, I don't actually quite remember what it's like. But there must be a secret vote among Members. It must be agreed among workers' organizations and employees' organizations. But I do not actually remember how it ended up whether it was the case that the individual employee could still opt out of it, or, if it had been collectively decided, if, if I may say so, it was forced to receive part of the salary if you were at work. But it may be that the mayor I was about to say it's municipal election times... the minister can figure it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141810	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141814	Well, it's the case that nobody can be pressured to go down in pay. It is voluntary that you have to go down in wages, but you cannot be pressured to do so. It's a mutual agreement that people have to agree to. Those are the rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141825	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141841	The debate is open. The first rapporteur is also this time Mr. Erik Christensen from Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116141900	Thank you. Together with the government, the Social Democracy, DF, Radical and SF concluded an agreement in March this year on the future development of the North Sea. The agreement will invest a two-digit billion in oil and gas extraction in the North Sea over the next few years. The investments provide revenue for the Treasury and provide many, especially industrial jobs in the oil and gas sectors. As you know, the agreement is financed by inter alia: to introduce a dividend payment for the Export Credit. The bill we are discussing here today should then allow the board of EKF, i.e. the Export Credit, to establish a dividend policy for EKF. In other words, it must be possible to implement the yield target resulting from the political agreement on the development of the North Sea. It must be said that in recent years EKF has been very successful in its operation and that profits are expected in the company in the years to come. It therefore seems natural that an independent public undertaking such as EKF pays dividends to the owner, i.e. the State. An important purpose of the bill is to ensure that the dividend policy does not affect EKF's risk-taking and capacity to meet exporters' needs. Among other things: EKF must be able to continue to comply with the solvency requirements under which EKF is governed by its statutes, simply to ensure that EKF's equity capital is such that, together with the provisions, it provides a sound basis for the undertaking's obligations and activities. The income and expenditure of Denmark's Export Credit shall be balanced in the long term, taking into account the international competitive situation and particular commercial policy considerations. EKF must, of course, continue to offer competitive financing to Danish exporters to the extent that there is demand. And to ensure that the liquidity preparedness of Denmark's Export Credit and the ongoing activities can be continued, Denmark's Export Credit has at the same time been given an undertaking to extend access to government re-loans. The bill also clarifies the regulation to which EKF's commercial activities are subject, and this bill clarifies that the commercial activities, which include: for private customers who are entitled to confidentiality, not covered by the Archive Act and the Public Procurement Act, while the sectoral policy activities will continue to be covered by the Archive Act. Social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142117	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Hans Kristian Skibby from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142127	If you go a little back in time, you will remember that we had major political discussions here in Denmark about the conditions that prevailed in order to continue to extract raw materials in the North Sea, both in terms of oil and gas. There were investors' interests; there were also socio-economic interests; and indeed there were also employees' and employers' interests that we could continue as far as it could now be done to improve our extraction potential with new technology etc. and also invest in already established systems in the North Sea with a view to extracting oil and gas deposits. That is why it was imperative that we make a future-proof agreement, that is to say a model that would benefit both the employees and those who work out there and indeed the employers. Therefore, the Danish People's Party entered into the majority agreement concluded in March 2017, about a changed approach to how to make taxation, etc. In this context, it is important to stress the need to ensure that future investment and jobs are maintained. We must indeed be able to finance it because it is something that comes with making an initiative that promotes employment and secures it and there we are so well off at the moment that money is actually being made in the Export Credit Fund as a result of the investments that have been made through the state commitment. There is also the possibility today of making individual dividend payments, but it is more laborious than what is proposed with the bill here, where we get a formal dividend policy into the legislation. As I have said, since we are one of the conciliation parties behind the North Sea Agreement, we can of course also support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142325	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142331	This is the end of the farcical process around the North Sea, which goes back to the agreement reached in 2003, which has been called worthy by many economists of a banana state, giving companies in the North Sea extremely favourable tax conditions. They thanked them for this by not renovating their equipment out there, and when it was about to sink, they went back to the same settlement circle and said: If we don't get a further tax relief, then we put the Danish Nordsø brackish. And vupti, after a little revolverdiplomati, supplied the rapporteur's party and the rest of the conciliation circle with additional tax rebates to these companies. It turned out later that the whole purpose of the maneuver was that Mærsk should leave his North Sea business and have a higher return. It was a bizarre process. How did the rapporteur actually feel about the fact that it turned out that it was not known when they were negotiating that the whole of this manoeuvre, which now costs money that we have to take from the Export Credit Fund, was to secure a higher selling price to Mærsk, and that we now have the Danish North Sea oil to an even greater extent in the hands of foreign oil companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142446	First of all, I would like to stress that the interpretation given by the rapporteur is not the same as that which will come from the politicians of the Danish People's Party. Ours is actually a little more profound, I would say. Because if we are to safeguard the jobs that are out there and we are to ensure that we take advantage of the new technologies that have come, especially since the first agreements and the first initiatives, in order to exploit our oil and gas deposits, that also means that, if we are to have a higher recovery rate, we must also exploit some of the new technologies that are coming. This means that today we have more investment than has been done in the past. If, at the same time, we saw, unfortunately, that there were relatively lower transfer prices for both oil and gas, then it was quite natural that we, as politicians, also took a conscious responsibility to secure this very large industry, not least the workers who are employed out there and who are quite large taxpayers in Denmark. We have it in the Danish People's Party quite sensibly with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142549	It is, of course, a company which is otherwise known for due diligence that we are talking about, which was overpaid year after year in relation to the agreement reached with billions of dollars. Showmen are talking about, I think, 10-15 billion. kr., which then comes because the drilling platforms have sunk. This is not surprising, because it happens when you pump oil out of the underground. Then you say, "Hey, we can't afford to renovate our appliances, despite having had an excess profit of billions." Then you go to the political majority and put a gun to your head and say: give us tax rebates or we shut down. And then you go out and sell the company and the tax advantage you have just received, which of course raises the company's price. Is this behaviour that the rapporteur considers to be admirable? Nor did I really get an answer to my question as to whether the rapporteur is satisfied that Danish North Sea oil is now even more in the hands of foreign oil companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142653	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142656	I do not think that the rapporteur has put it in his first question either with his foreign hands. However, what is the basic premise is that we get the maximum possible return on the initiatives and funds that go in from Danish state interests, and whether the owner is Danish or foreign, I am not particularly interested in it. We want Danish companies, of course, as many places as possible, but we also want agreements which are as favourable to the Treasury as possible. There's just a big difference, I'd say to Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted, on Enhedslisten and Dansk Folkeparti. We have no objection to investing in Danish jobs, but we just have to note that we had a discussion on this several years ago that we did not want to do so by Enhedslisten. You see bandits in suits everywhere. Perhaps I would say that it is ghosts that you go and look for, but it is not the right premise to do so. We just have to ensure that if we are to maintain a higher percentage of Danish oil and gas deposits, then those who do should also have the opportunity to afford to invest in the latest and most distinguished technology. And it costs money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142803	Thank you, sir. Hans Kristian Skibby, and welcome to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116142812	Thank you. As the exchange of words just before was marked by, this bill translates into part of the North Sea agreement of March, concluded by the Government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, Radicals and the SF, which ensures that investments in the North Sea continue to ensure high production and, as the debate just now also showed, a large number of jobs. It was basically a quite reasonable agreement. However, as was also apparent from the exchange in the past, it is also an agreement that has a price tag, a bill, and of course we have to pick it up, and we do so with this bill, which introduces a clearer legal basis into the law on EKF, i.e. Denmark's Export Credit, to establish a dividend policy, because it is necessary to ensure that the dividend payment is made in a sufficiently appropriate way. That is the main purpose of the draft law. Denmark's Export Credit now plays an important role as a publicly owned credit institution, and it allows Danish companies to raise capital to export Danish goods to the whole world. After all, EKF operates places where the private market has difficulty in taking action, for example by securing financing for exports to countries where the commercial markets are somewhat more reluctant. In fact, EKF does so quite well that they put money aside every year. That is why it makes good sense when the state has made the money available and is the owner of the company that the state can then also get its share of the profits generated. This is what is provided for here, so that the financing of the North Sea Agreement can take place. It makes very good sense for us to make sure that there is money for the agreements we make, and therefore, of course, we support the legislative proposal. And I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party, which also supports the agreement and the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143022	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143027	There is much talk at this time about the lack of risk capital for our entrepreneurs and about the fact that capital is needed in general, including for our exporters, for example. of green technology. This is also something that the rapporteur's party itself speaks a great deal about. So now, if you can say so, you put the state's long trunk into EKF Danmarks Exportkredit and in the Growth Fund, two public credit facilitators, such as: In any case, it is growth companies that support small entrepreneurs when we talk about the Growth Fund and, in this case, the export of green technology, and take up money that they could have spent in their areas for even more activity. They are then plugged into the fossil energy to support some main oil companies. Is the rapporteur's business promotion glasses a wise priority of public funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143138	I think it is a very good agreement on the North Sea that has been made. These are thousands of jobs that we are helping to secure in the future with that agreement. And the funding found through EKF and the Growth Fund makes good sense. It makes good sense that when the State makes capital available, it lends it out with a high risk and because both EKF and the Growth Fund operate sensibly, profits are generated and of course the state must also have a return. And if I remember the details fairly precisely, there are also some provisions on the leverage of capital, which ensure that the volume of loans that apply today can be maintained even when dividends are paid to the Danish state.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143228	I think you have to be careful not to talk about future-proofing anything when we talk about fossil energy. I don't think there's much future in it. But just to stick to the theme: It is a bit funny that we have a debate about the business climate at home which is very much about access to capital for our growth companies. It may well be that the same level of activity can be maintained in the Growth Fund, but if there is a need for capital that the rapporteur has so often talked about, is it not a strange priority to take money out of a fund that aims to support the growth layers of our society, to finance one, excuse me, outdated fossil project that does not point forward? But whatever it was for a project, investing money in, you might say, established industries rather than securing the growth layer through what is the purpose of the Growth Fund. I am sure that if I had come and proposed taking money from the Growth Fund for any other purpose, the rapporteur would have had my opinion and said: it is stupid to take money out of the Growth Fund.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143334	Now, the interesting thing is that there will be no less activity. And yes, there is a need for more money, more capital for entrepreneurs, for growth companies. This is precisely why the Danish Government and the Danish People's Party and Radicals agreed on business and entrepreneurial initiatives on Sunday, which will provide a better opportunity to raise capital: a share savings account, an investment allowance and a large number of other initiatives aimed at securing more investment and ensuring that Danes with private pension savings will have the opportunity to invest in unlisted shares. We are pursuing a policy aimed at securing more investment. That is, in all modesty, what it is all about. In this particular case, we say that there is a surplus that is generated and that money the state can take in, but we ensure that the amount of risk capital in Denmark increases.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143425	Thank you, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen. There are no more brief comments. Welcome to sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143440	As the debate has shown, the Enhedslisten cannot, of course, support this proposal. It is, of course, a consequence of all the bizarre developments we have seen around the North Sea Agreement, that is to say about the North Sea oil of the Danes. The current agreement was concluded in 2003 and has been called worthy by leading economists of a banana state. It is the case that the oil fields located just over the other side of the sea border with Norway are taxed at a significantly higher level, which means that the Norwegians get considerably more out of their North Sea oil than we as Danes get and have got out of ours. Instead, it is the oil companies that have wasted that money. So far, so good. That is how the oil companies overpaid year after year until last year. They were so naughty in A.P. Møller - Mærsk to come and say that they would like to have an additional tax rebate because they could not afford to maintain the apparatus out in the North Sea. It is therefore a company which has otherwise adorned itself with the name of due diligence, which had not foreseen that their own drilling platform would sink when they pulled liters of oil and gas up from the underground. But it was easy to predict, which is why it should of course have been expected that this company would have saved up when they have a concession reaching 2050 or when it is now reaching 2050. But they didn't. Instead of putting a gun to the fore by the Folketing or the conciliation circle, they said: give us the tax rebate, or we'll shut it all down. And, of course, it ended up with the settlement circle bowing down and giving them this tax rebate. And what made it quite absurd was that very soon afterwards it turned out that the purpose of the whole manoeuvre was to raise the price of Mærsk's oil business, which was sold to the French company Total: Thanks for the service of friends; we give up our commitment to Denmark and leave it to foreign oil companies. I understand that a few of them were negotiating this deal that felt a little cheated. This was the case, among other things. The Social Democratic negotiator of the agreement, but also others. What I have said so far is problematic enough, but the money for this tax rebate is then taken from among other things. The Growth Fund and Denmark's Export Credit. I therefore agree with what has been said. It is not because I am opposed to making a profit from it and using it for other sensible investments. Oh, yeah, you can do that. But there is no doubt that taking money out of these funds has an impact on the activities of those funds. The Growth Fund could do more for our growth companies if this money were left behind. Denmark's Export Credit could do more if you left this money behind. So this is an anti-business proposal. This weakens the investment in our growth companies... it's a fact... compared to what else they could have done. What is sad about it is that some of what the Growth Fund has actually succeeded in investing in is our green technologies, our green businesses. One of the successes of Denmark's Export Credit is also to support our export of green technologies, which are a growing and important part of Denmark's exports. So there will be less money for that now. So what we are discussing here is a proposal that will take money from growth companies and entrepreneurs and transfer it to, excuse me, a main oil company, and it is a proposal that will take money from exports of, among other things. Green technology and support for it to support black fossil energy. That is what we are discussing. It is a business hostile proposal and it is a climate hostile proposal, and it is the crowning achievement of the foolish agreement on North Sea oil, which the Danes are unfortunately going to suffer for many years to come. So we cannot support the proposal and I should like to welcome the alternative and say that they are also sceptical about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143901	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we welcome Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116143909	Thank you for that, President. My good colleague has explained so well what this is all about. It is a question of providing some funding for the North Sea Agreement, which was concluded not long ago, and which, of course, has as its objective to ensure that investments continue to be made for the benefit of Denmark, so that there can continue to be a lot of billions in the Treasury that many parties would like to spend on various things, including welfare. That agreement required some funding because the tax was relaxed a little. As far as I remember, taxation was reduced to 71 per cent, and it is hardly a low rate of taxation, 71 per cent, and although it is true that there are other countries, including Norway, which have a higher rate of taxation, this is partly due to this. also that the Norwegian State is taking a greater risk than the Danish State does in terms of involvement in oil activities. This bill will therefore establish a dividend policy for EKF, which means that up to 2025 1.5 billion will be paid out. kr. in dividends to finance the North Sea Agreement. As we are part of the agreement, we can, of course, support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144045	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144058	The Radical Left is also part of the North Sea Agreement and can therefore also support this proposal. However, we have taken a little interest in whether the narrowing of the framework provided for by this bill could affect our exports. For EKF is a brilliant success and has not least delivered a lot in the green area. We understand from the answers we have received from the Ministry that it is not considered to be the case, but I would just like to say that we will be actively following it, and I also understand that the Minister is actively following it. For it is not the intention of this bill that EKF should become less active or make its work less thorough and broad, you can say than you are doing today. On the contrary, it can be said that Danish exports are going well, but it could easily go even better, and of course we would still like to support that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144156	There's a brief comment from Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144201	I am, in effect, very pleased that there is this attention on the part of the Radical Left. It jumps a bit in the eye that a party like the Radical Left, which, like the Enhedslisten, is preoccupied with the green transition, has given its name and votes to an agreement that in this way takes money away from somebody and now we are talking about EKF Denmark's Export Credit today; the Growth Fund will soon be talking about money that could really benefit from green growth companies and green exports, and will lead them to fossil energy to finance a dubious tax discount for companies operating in the North Sea. But what are the criteria for the Radical Left? So: We are told that EKF Denmark's Export Credit will not reduce its volume, as is the Growth Fund, but should it not be compared to opportunities and the activity that actually was in expanding its volume if the conciliation parties did not stick their fingers in the box?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144311	In other words, one might say that we want a volume that reflects demand. And if I have understood correctly, and perhaps the Minister can confirm that when he comes up here, there is today a balance in that match, that is, in relation to what is actually demand from the business community at EKF, and what is actually possible, and that will also be assessed in the future. That may change, and that is what we will be looking at, and we will also do so in relation to the Growth Fund, because there are clearly some areas where we would like to see a greater level of activity. But of course it requires that some companies demand it and want to use it. And as far as we can find out, there is today a match, one can say, and therefore nothing else is really needed but what the bill is proposing. However, the Radical Left will, of course, keep an eye on whether this should change and whether demand is increasing and whether what we are adopting now will therefore be a restriction. Because we don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144406	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144410	I think that sounds very positive, and we would like to take a look at this in committee. But if we just take the Growth Fund and now I know that we have to deal with it separately, then there is something strange about the fact that we hear nothing but a lack of risk capital from our growth companies, and that at the same time we have a political majority that decides to take money away from one of the otherwise most successful credit facilitators we have. I mean, there's a need for capital. Or I can ask my question this way: what is wrong? Is it wrong that there is a screaming need for risk capital, as we are constantly told? Or is it wrong that the Growth Fund will be lost when you go in and take money out like this? One of these things must be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144457	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144500	Let us take the debate on the Growth Fund when we come to it. However, in relation to EKF, it can be said that the objective is not to build up large equity capital, either in one place or another, for that matter. The aim is to have money that can work and that can provide the necessary capital injection or guarantee when we have the opportunity either to boost a new innovative company that has difficulty in obtaining capital, or to put a hand under companies that would like to go out on typically a little more uncertain growth markets that we would like them to come out on, both for the benefit of the recipient country and for the sake of Danish industry; there is no reason to make large such bubbles and equity capital. And in this way it can actually make very good sense also to tap out a little, if there is one, you might say, presence of money that is greater than the demand that is out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144550	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. Then there's no way around it, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. The word is the rapporteur's from the SF, and that is from here. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144605	Thank you. That can be said very briefly. SF is part of the North Sea Agreement, and with this proposal, which is part of the financing, it is ensured that EKF Denmark's Export Credit can contribute to the financing of the North Sea Agreement in the form of a dividend payment to the State.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144627	I can see that there is a brief comment from Mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144633	When the most recent agreement on North Sea oil with these extra tax rebates was concluded, SF's chairman, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, said that it was the business community that paid for the tax rebates. Well, it's pretty much not. Well, there's a surplus in these funds that you can go out and use for a lot of things for our elderly care, for our kindergartens, if that's what you wanted. Or if you want to let them stay and work on our government credit line, you could drive them towards forward-looking green investments in our growth companies. Does the rapporteur think that this is a wise way of spending this money, or could the rapporteur see other and more sensible ways of using EKF Denmark's Export Credit and Growth Fund funds?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144729	At the conclusion of the agreement, SF's chairman said that it had been important for SF to ensure that the business community was involved in paying this bill itself, and they are in relation to EKF Denmark's Export Credit and in relation to the Growth Fund. And there is one thing to say: no, that money could not be taken out to welfare, because this bill is something completely new, which must ensure that dividends are made to the state. It didn't exist before, so that's why that money couldn't be taken out to welfare. Sir. Pelle Dragsted has asked this question several times to some of the others, and it says in the comments to the bill: "It is therefore an important purpose of the bill to ensure that the implementation of the dividend policy does not affect EKF Danmarks Eksportkredit's risk-takingness and capacity to meet the exporters' needs. In addition, it says: "In order to ensure the liquidity readiness of EKF Danmarks Exportcredit and the activity level, it is intended to adjust EKF's existing access to government re-loans via the National Bank in the form of a revolving framework of 35 billion. kr. up to 2020. Then I also heard that the Minister said that this should be followed closely in relation to whether it had consequences for EKF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144848	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116144851	In other words, if you came to a private bank or lending business and pulled a lot of money out of their balance sheets, I think they would say that it would affect their ability to accommodate customers and loans. However, I would like to return to the second question. After all, it is not true that it is the business community that pays that is not correct. This is a surplus for the state, as a former rapporteur said, to invest in a number of projects. The risk has been taken and it has given a return to the state, or to the Growth Fund and to EKF Denmark's Export Credit, which is under the State. It's not business that pays for these tax cuts, it's all of us. It is our money, that is, the Danes, that we have earned from lending public funds to risk-based projects. So can the rapporteur not recognise that it is perhaps just as legitimate what can be said freshly to say that it is the business community that pays for these tax rebates to the oil companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145001	No, because there is no profit policy today. That is what the bill here has to ensure, that is to say, that dividends are paid to the state for financing. So it wasn't money that used to go straight into the care of the elderly. They would be in EKF Denmark's Export Credit. Then I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted goes a little quickly over the fact that it is up to 26 billion. kr. that would be missing in the treasury in the years to come if we hadn't done anything here. If we had been able to move to 100 percent. Green transition tomorrow, I think it would be a completely different matter. However, we know, and it is also in the plans for our green conversion, that there are some years to go when we need oil until, fortunately, we reach the point where we 100 per cent. are consumers of renewable energy. So the last part of that seems to me to be part of the story as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145058	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. And then I think we should give the floor to the Minister for Industry for a comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145106	Thank you for your comments, most of which have been generally positive. It also follows from the North Sea agreement we made in March between the government, S, DF, Radicals and SF. The purpose of the specific draft law here is to create and introduce a clearer legal framework into the law on EKF for the establishment of a genuine dividend policy. Firstly, the proposal introduces a provision on dividend policy into the EKF Act to ensure adequate and appropriate implementation of the dividend policy. The reason why we want to give a clear provision on dividend policy in EKF is to create the most appropriate legal basis for EKF to contribute to the financing of the North Sea Agreement in the form of dividend payments within the framework of the North Sea Agreement. In order to ensure that ongoing activities can be continued, EKF has at the same time been given an undertaking to extend the access of the export loan scheme to government reloans. Secondly, the proposal clarifies that commercial activities such as: concerns private customers with confidentiality requirements, are not covered by the Archive Act, and these matters are not covered by the Public Procurement Act. Sectoral policy activities will continue to be covered by the Archive Act. I believe that the proposal here makes a sensible contribution to the financing of the North Sea Agreement and to ensuring good conditions for Danish industry in the future. In those words, I look forward to the further examination of the draft law and hope for a constructive discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145245	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145250	In other words, what we are doing with both this proposal and the proposal on the Growth Fund is taking money out of these semi-State credit facilities, which, of course, play a very, very important role for our growth companies in particular, for some of our export companies, especially those which are not so large. So you can say that you take money from small and medium-sized enterprises, growth companies, and transfer it to the French oil company Total, Shell and other multinational giants. Does the Minister think that it is a wise priority to take money from what is our future, that is, from small and medium-sized enterprises, and then use it to fire up, can one say, under Total, which is one of the world's largest companies, or the other oil companies out in the North Sea?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145353	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145358	I believe that many things are being mixed up, because this will have no impact on EKF's work, on their loan policy, on their ability to help Danish export companies. Today they exploit approx. 21 billion kr. out of the total loan framework of 35 billion. kr. This means that the total loan framework of EKF is not even being used. We then put it down and say: let's put it at 25 billion. kr., it will be more appropriate compared to the current demand in the market. Then there's a profit in EKF's cooperation. It's not philanthropy when you go in and guarantee some export to some countries where banks wouldn't otherwise go in. And in that surplus, we say in this agreement that you have to take a maximum of 50 per cent. and use EKF's profits to finance some of the North Sea Agreement. The way we construct it is not for the purpose of financing the North Sea Agreement; EKF's work, economy, structure and way of working must also be taken into account in the future. So to the best of my knowledge, this does not affect EKF's work at all, not at all. It is quite natural for an owner to pull out a profit; that is what is done in all companies, and so is done here. And it will not affect the work that EKF does.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145520	I guess in many financial companies you would like to see, among other things. use some of the surplus you had to invest in new activities, and that is what you could also choose to do with it here, especially when we talk about the Growth Fund, where there is a real need. I have often heard the Minister himself talk about this, i.e. there is not enough risk capital for our growth companies. That's why I just think it's double moral, quite simply, when we hear that song over and over again and then you actually go in and pick up money in this case of EKF. In a short time we will also have to deal with the Growth Fund, which is indeed one of the very important tools, even much more important than the tools that the government has just adopted with a growth package, i.e. a share-saving account, which goes to the listed companies. It is not exactly something that helps our small and medium-sized enterprises or growth companies. Then the Minister can guarantee that both EKF and the Growth Fund will not have a consequence in relation to the need to increase or that it will, what can be said, reduce risk? Well, can you be sure of that? I guess that's how you got the money you got. If demand increases and there is no more money, can we not lend more or provide guarantees with more money?
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145634	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145638	I think it is important to keep to the facts here. First of all, there is a premise for this, which means that you can draw a maximum of 50 per cent. of the surplus out of EKF. Secondly, it must be arranged in such a way that it does not affect EKF's activities. Thirdly, EKF currently spends some 21 billion. kr. of the loan frame you have. So you don't even take advantage of the loan frame there is. When the question from Mr. Pelle Dragsted then goes on to see if their activities are affected, then every sound logic and reasoning has to say: if you do not use the loan framework within the current conditions, then it is probably not going to affect activities that you draw some of the profits So the best answer I can give to the question from Mr Dragsted. Pelle Dragsted, is that EKF's activities cannot be affected by not even today taking advantage of the loan framework when you can draw a maximum of 50 per cent. of a profit beyond that, and when we design the design such that it does not affect EKF's activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145749	Thank you to the Minister for Business. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171116145814	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. I would like to thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Wednesday, 22 November 2017, at 2 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
