ParlaMint-DK_20170907100035	The meeting is open. The debate on finance law today will be interpreted in sign language so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website, www.ft.dk, and subsequently on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100105	The item listed as No. 3 on the agenda, can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100118	Roger Courage Matthisen has applied for leave from 8 September 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 3 points a, Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen, Jens Joel and Thomas Danielsen have applied for leave from 3 October 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. while Lotte root has applied for leave from 9 October 2017, cf. Paragraph 41 of the Rules of Procedure. 4. If there is no objection, I shall consider it agreed that leave should be granted as applied for and that substitutes should be called as temporary members. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100230	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of the Alternative in Funen Storkreds, Nikolaj Amstrup, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 8 September 2017 on the occasion of Roger Courage Matthisen's leave. I have also received the recommendation that the following be approved as temporary members of the Folketing as from 3 October 2017: 1. deputy for the Social Democratic Party in North Jutland's Storkreds, Per Husted, on the occasion of Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen's leave, 1st deputy for the Social Democratic Party in East Jutland's Storkreds, Male Larsen, on the occasion of Jens Joel's leave and 3rd deputy for the Left in West Jutland's Large District, Marianne Bredal, on the occasion of Danielsen Thomas's leave. It should be noted that the first and second alternates have indicated that they do not wish to join this leave. Finally, I have received the recommendation that the second deputy for the Radical Left in South Jutland's Grand District, Marlene Borst Hansen, be approved as a temporary member of the Folketing as from 9 October 2017 on the occasion of Rod Lotte's leave. It should be noted that the first deputy has announced that he does not wish to take up such leave. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100404	As you know, voting must take place by standing up at my request. I would like to ask Erling Bonnesen and Karen J. Klint to conduct the count. Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. Thank you. The proposal has been adopted unanimously. In favour of 109 votes, against 0 abstentions 0 abstentions 0 abstentions
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100535	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100605	We had the second reading yesterday and the answers to the last questions came the day before. I asked the Minister yesterday whether, at the time we had first reading, the Minister knew that there were changes on the way for the 82,000 solar installations not covered by the law. I really think it would have been most fair for us, when we first dealt with the bill, to have a clear picture of what the law was like and what other plans were. And I would still like to know from the Minister whether the Minister knew at first reading that Energinet.dk had a process in progress to change the conditions of the 82,000 PV plants not covered by the law. It may well be that the Minister has been involved in ordering this to happen, and one might well ask why the Minister should interfere in it ■ it is a state institution. It is only necessary to note, in relation to the proposal made by Energinet.dk, that the Minister has avoided this and said that Energinet.dk should come up with a different solution for the solar installations not covered by this law. So I would still like to know from the Minister's mouth whether it is the case that the Minister knew that the intervention that has been launched was in progress, was already planned at the first reading of the bill here. And if the Minister does not want to answer today, then we have the opportunity to call for consultation and ask written questions, etc., but I think it is actually most fair to know things when you have the second and third readings in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100743	Thank you, sir. Søren Egge Rasmussen. Does anyone else want to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100753	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. Then we'll have to get back on our feet if anyone else votes in favour. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. And those Members who are abstaining are asked to stand up. Thank you. in favour of 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 54 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been adopted and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907100948	The debate is open. It's first, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907101008	Thank you, President. I would like to begin by sending a greeting to the person who has involuntarily become the main figure in the government's presentation of proposals for finance law and tax reform. I am not thinking of the Lamborghini owner, nor am I thinking of the 1,000 richest Danes who, because of the proposal to remove the ceiling on the employment allowance, can look forward to an average tax relief of DKK 190,000.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907101042	We need to calm down so that the rapporteur can hear what he himself says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907101049	On the other hand, I am thinking of Annette Hansen. Annette at the box in SuperBrugsen in Køge. Last Sunday she presented her paycheck to the public... it was brave... and Annette has taught us two important things. It is, firstly, that she has a modest income, but actually a higher income than the fictitious HKs that the Prime Minister and Finance Minister of the country has tried to deceive us all would be the biggest winner in the government's tax reform. Secondly, Annette believes that everyone should try to sit by the box in the supermarket for just a week or so, because then we politicians would probably have more respect for her work. I think Annette is right that more people could benefit from getting out in real life. And when you look at the government's proposals for finance law and tax reform, it is far from reality, and it is far from the Danes' everyday lives. Danish economy does not need top tax incentives. Businesses lack skilled labour and demand a growth reform. The Danes do not want top tax relief because they know that you cannot spend the money twice. If they are used on cheaper cars and top tax concessions in disguise, they cannot be used in better hospitals, better schools and better kindergarten. That's the reality we're living in. This is the reality of the Danes. Social democracy will ensure a long-term plan to address the challenges facing the Danish economy. This requires that we invest in the core of the Danish model, namely our welfare society. This is the social democracy's first priority. Then we must ensure growth and jobs and, thirdly, we must ensure that all Danes can walk safely on the streets; the gangs must get off the streets. And then, of course, we have a duty: we need to strengthen our common defence and we need to restore confidence in the tax system. But not one of Denmark's challenges is solved by giving tax relief to those who have much in advance. We have a unique welfare society in Denmark, and our public employees make an enormous effort every day, yet the Danes experience a welfare society that does not run as well as it should. There are cancer patients who do not get their treatment on time; there are elderly people who cannot get help to get out of bed; there are children who are not comforted because there is a lack of educators in kindergarten. We don't solve everything with more money, but if the kindergarten and the hospital and the nursing home are to start every year cutting down, it certainly doesn't get any better. And now the government is going to cut once again. In the Social Democratic Party we want to enter constructively into the autumn negotiations and we want to help solve the challenges that Denmark faces. Unfortunately, the government's primary purpose of the draft budget, as we have seen before, is to provide large-scale tax relief. It's crooked, and it's irresponsible. The biggest tax relief goes to wealthy citizens in northern Zealand municipalities, who receive about three times as much tax relief as those living on Langeland and Lolland. Pensioners get nothing. The director, on the other hand, gets so much. According to the government itself, this is due to a desire to increase labour supply. The fact is that, thanks to the reforms of the last 10 years, the workforce will grow by approx. 120,000 full-time people. And spending 15 billion. kr. In the case of tax relief to the most well-off in order to increase the supply of work by 7,600 people, it is also possible to question whether the government's calculations are a wrong priority. The money can be spent more sensibly and more fairly on solving the challenges that Denmark actually faces. And then we must not forget the background to the contract that we politicians signed with the Danes in connection with the welfare agreement in 2006. To use the created scope for tax relief is to break a contract with the Danes. We promised the Danes that the benefit of a later retirement age would be that their welfare would not be cut. Therefore, in the 2018 Finance Act, we should invest in our common welfare, in jobs, in security and in a green Denmark. Our main priorities for the forthcoming budget negotiations are firstly to ensure a stronger welfare society with proper care for the elderly, so that there is confidence that our elderly will have a dignified old age. What good is it to be able to call your mother or grandmother at the nursing home from a tax-free phone if you are worried about whether your loved ones have even come out of bed or have been talked to that day? That is why we are also proposing that the productivity requirement should be abolished as early as 2018. There is a need for us to slow down the pace of the hospitals and give employees some air for professionalism so that they can focus on providing patients with the best possible treatment. In addition, we believe that the main priorities include: is to increase help for mentally vulnerable young people and to reduce waiting times to cancer treatment. The trend towards increasing waiting lists for cancer treatment is unacceptable. Then, in this autumn, we will work to secure more and better jobs. Thanks to timely reforms, we have ensured that the workforce is growing, and now we must ensure that the Danes have the skills to take the jobs that are available. Not only do we need more hands, we need the right hands. And that is why, unlike the government, we will give priority to vocational training, because our companies will lack skilled labour. The 2018 Finance Act must also give priority to the fight against social dumping. Proper pay and working conditions are crucial to the Danish model, and we are also working towards an ambitious growth reform. Social democracy will work to ensure that money is set aside so that we can take harder action against the gangs here and now. We want a strengthened and visible police force throughout Denmark. The authorities must have even better tools and we must take preventive action to prevent small brothers from becoming big criminals. In the Folketing we agree that SKAT must be restored and that confidence in SKAT must be restored. But so far, the government has only presented plans that are sufficient to carry out the most necessary tasks. More is needed. Social democracy will employ 1,000 additional employees spread across the country to ensure better tax equality and a firm effort against tax havens. As a fourth and final priority, I would like to mention the green area and the government's announcement to drop the green national accounts. I am sorry that the government is relaxing our green ambitions in every possible way, and it is not the case that just because we are not measuring it, the problems are disappearing. We will work to ensure that energy research is given much higher priority in 2018 than the government's savings suggest, and we will insist that the Togfonden DK, as a broad majority outside the government's agreement, is included in the Finance Act for 2018. I have also noted that there is a majority in Parliament that is prepared to reform car taxes into a greener and more modern system. Therefore, the government should call for broad negotiations on the registration fee. Finally, we in the Social Democratic Party are puzzled by the move to voluntary Denmark by vacuuming the voluntary associations with the round shaving of the VAT refund scheme. Voluntary associations contribute to a strong civil society. Social democracy will be a priority within the same scope as the government. Our priorities are just different, which means that in 2018 we will find funding in, for example, the negotiation reserve of 2.5 billion. kr., the reserve for the tax reform of 500 million. kr., the reserve for the business package of 800 million. kr., the welfare reserve of 500 million. kr. and the government reserve of 600 million. kr. In addition, the Social Democratic Party will cancel the relief on the inheritance tax that the government has implemented. With the comments made, the Social Democratic Party looks forward to today's debate, but most importantly, I hope that the government will use the negotiations on the Finance Act for 2018 to ensure broad cooperation on real solutions to Denmark's challenges. Social democracy is ready to engage constructively in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102023	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. René Christensen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102031	Thank you for that and thank you for your examination of the Social Democracy. There is a lot of talk about this tax relief, so I would really like to ask whether that means that when Mr. Benny Engelbrecht says that Annette, who sits at the cashier, does not have so much money. It is a very good picture of it. In fact, the Social Democratic Party agrees that tax cuts, if there is to be tax cuts, must be made at the bottom, precisely so that Annette, who is sitting in the box, can get a little more out of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102100	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102103	I am very pleased that Mr. René Christensen emphasizes this and says if we are to start by ensuring that there is money for the welfare we have promised the Danes. And then it is that we will also set out the priorities which I have set out here and which are also reflected in the proposal for negotiations that we have put forward. And then it is clear that if, in the end, there is a surplus left and an opportunity to provide tax relief, we will give priority at the bottom and not at the top, and certainly not what the government has proposed, that is, that the 1,000 richest Danes can look forward to a tax relief of DKK 190,000, only because of the removal of the ceiling on the employment allowance. It's wrong and it's wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102152	Here you go, sir. René Christensen for the next question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102155	Thank you. I think that is a very good answer that came from the Social Democratic Party. That is good because it is also a little more around than previous answers, because there it has been either - or • either it was tax relief, or it was welfare. What I hear the rapporteur say now is that there are, of course, and there we also fully agree with the Social Democratic Party: there are some challenges in welfare areas, and if you solve them and there is money left, then it is not the same as saying that you cannot spend them on tax cuts. I would like to commend the rapporteur for taking it up and drawing this picture of a cashier, it could also have been of a truck driver, it could have been of an employee in a warehouse, that is, people who get up every morning and look after their jobs and pay their taxes, probably also with pleasure, so that their children can go to primary school and so that they and their children can have free access to health and free access to education and other things. So what I hear the Social Democrats say now is that this thing about saying either tax relief or welfare has softened a little, and I would like to sign for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102251	Thank you. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102253	First of all, thank you for the rose for choosing a cashier. If I'd been in Mr. Knox's office, I'd have been in Mr. Knox's office. René Christensen's shoes, I would certainly have chosen an auto mechanic, but I have a past like what we used to call a cashier, whether it was m/k, and even though it was so long ago that flieslams were used at the time when you had to pay with a dance card. So that was a lot of years ago. I just want to remind you that the order must of course be right. So what we want to prioritise to solve first is the great welfare challenge that is, and I know that, because I hear that the Danish People's Party also thinks so. The important thing to say is: yes, if there is anything left. And that is where we have to recognise that it is not that much room for manoeuvre. So we have to start in the right order: first there is the welfare issue, and then it is to ensure that the investments are made and to ensure that there are the right hands, and this is done by upgrading, and also to ensure the safety of strengthening the police forces away with the gangs. And above all, we must ensure that we also have the green element, which includes, among other things, the green element. car taxes, which can be an exciting element, so that we can actually make the cars even safer and even greener.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102408	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102411	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I could hear the rapporteur saying that if there is money for tax cuts, they must go to the bottom and not to the top. It's just too clear. When the rapporteur talks about the bottom, it is the right bottom, that is, the group of people who have the lowest incomes in Denmark, for example. Our poorest folk pensioners, early retirement pensioners, or is it only, if I may say so, the bottom of the group of people who have an income from work that the rapporteur is talking about if tax relief is to be available?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102445	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102447	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would like to say that I do not want to stand here and offer anyone any prospect of various tax cuts that we do not know if there is any money at all. So I don't want to specify who's gonna have how much when. I think that the present government has done enough to put all sorts of things in perspective that are completely unrealistic. After all, we can all work this out, also on the basis of the comments that have come from the parties bypassing the government. So I am not going to stand here and say who it is that should have a tax relief that we are not sure there is room for manoeuvre. But it is clear that when I talk about Annette Hansen, for example, who is a cashier in Køge, it is because we believe that ordinary, hard-working Danes we would like to see that if it is the case that there is a room for manoeuvre reward. But again, the order must be the right one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102538	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102541	But this room for manoeuvre has been created by among others. the general prosperity of society. I find it hard to understand this idea that it should, for example. our folk pensioners do not have a share in if we choose to distribute part of it as tax relief. And, of course, I can read from the Finance Act of the Social Democrats, which has come today, that what you are aiming for is a tax relief for employees. However, does it mean, as the rapporteur says now, that we should not read it so precisely and that we have not determined whether any tax relief should only cover the people who are at work now, so that once again people who have worked their whole lives and who are some of them in Denmark have the lowest incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102621	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102623	As I said, we're going to start where we're going to start, so we're going to start with the low-paid worker, that's clear. In addition, however, I think that, in terms of how we should, if necessary, link up something that we do not know about affording today, it will be a little too hypothetical. At the same time, however, it should also be remembered that there is a struggle which I hope the Danish Parliament's parties, both Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti and all other parties that are not part of the government, remember that the government is planning to make savings on transfer income for in the region of 5.25 billion. kr., and we don't know exactly who's gonna pay that bill. It may well be pensioners, so in reality the battle may be about something quite different.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102708	Thank you. Then I jumped Mr. Jacob Jensen over before. That wasn't nice. Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102713	The President does not want to hear a bad word for that, because I am happy to listen to a good debate on taxation between two parties, which otherwise does not normally talk about that sort of thing. But today it seems to be quite comme il faut to talk about it, and I think that is a good thing, and that is why I should like to ask about taxes. 'Cause when sir... Benny Engelbrecht now says that taxes are almost evil and that it is not possible to make any good of that, was it a mistake when the Social Democratic Party carried out a tax reform itself a few years ago, in which the top tax was actually introduced and significantly reduced, the corporate tax was significantly reduced and, moreover, it was financed by cutting the cash benefits? So was it a mistake?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102753	Here you go, sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102754	Now Mr. Jacob Jensen me to say that taxes or tax benefits, I assume it's supposed to be of evil. I do not recall at any time having said that, so perhaps there is something in Mr. Jacob Jensen, who's a little wrong. Because I remember, for example. We also had a debate last week in P1, where Mr. Jacob Jensen invited the Social Democratic Party to take part in negotiations on vehicle taxes, and I have not received an invitation yet. So it may be that there is something in your hearing that you just need to straighten out a little bit. We don't have anything against tax cuts. If tax relief is to be granted, it must be at the bottom, but only if there is room for it, and we must therefore remind you that the room for manoeuvre available today is there, because we have agreed with the Danes that they, among other things, are present. must retire later for the sake of being able to secure our welfare. When Mr. Thor Pedersen, when he was Minister of Finance, presented the welfare agreement, he did not say: now we have created a room for manoeuvre to be able to give tax relief in the future. He said: Now we have created a room for manoeuvre for the future's welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102905	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102907	It's always good to listen to sir. Thor Pedersen always has to do that, but the question was quite simple, i.e. whether it was a mistake. Was it a mistake when quite a few years ago, with the Social Democrats in the lead, we went in and said that there is a need to create growth in this society? This was seen to be the best way to reduce taxes, and it was not just taxes in general but targeted a top tax relief and a corporate tax relief, and on the same occasion you went in and financed it by cutting cash benefits. So was it a mistake, or how am I supposed to see the answer I received here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907102945	In any case, I note that it was a mistake when Mr. Jacob Jensen quoted me as having to say that tax cuts are evil. Because I didn't say that. So I see it as sir. Jacob Jensen has just said in recognition of that. Of course, we did a tax reform, first and foremost to lift some people out of a top tax that they were not supposed to be in. With the way we have set up the top tax system today, we have approx. 10% of the Danish population who pay top tax. We used to have approx. 25% of the Danish population who lived in families who contributed with the top tax, and it was not intended for the nurse or the metal worker to do so. This way you come when you have an income of just over 0.5 million. kr., into the top tax, and thus it is the widest shoulders that make the best contribution to society. It is a fine arrangement, and we think we should continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103037	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103045	Thank you. Advice for tax relief is a funny logic. In other words, is it possible for citizens to keep the money they have earned by going to work? Yes, there is, because there is room for manoeuvre. Looking into the future, citizens' tax payments are higher than planned expenditure. So if there is no money to let the citizens, the lady sitting by the box, keep the money they earn by working, now, when is there? When, in the past, has there been a greater scope for people to keep their own money?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103124	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103126	I have heard the argument also from the Minister for Economic Affairs that the Danes had to pay too much in tax. So I would remind you that we still have a deficit on public finances. At some point it will come into balance, it is good, and this is partly due to the fact that we have been pursuing economically responsible policies for many decades in Denmark. That's good. When we talk about room for manoeuvre and about the future surplus, we just have to remember what it is that we have always planned for that surplus to be used for. I know that the Liberal Alliance did not exist in 2006, but the principles of the welfare agreement and subsequent settlements have been endorsed. What has been done is that it has been said that there must be money for the demographic development that exists. There will be more Danes who will receive welfare. 150,000 more citizens over 70 years of age will be in 2025. Believing that you can provide the same welfare service to them without spending more money is therefore naive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103232	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103234	However, more money is being put in place and the agreements, the reforms that were made, make it possible to spend more money. In the absence of those reforms, there had been huge deficits in public finances, which had meant that public spending could not be increased. So the agreement that was made with the Danes is being held, and then there is a gap between the planned expenditure and the tax revenue, and that is why it is our priority that we let the citizens keep their own money. For, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, it's the citizens' money. You haven't served them. Mrs. Mette Frederiksen has not served them. It is the citizens who have served them, and then we think they should be allowed to keep a little more of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103323	You don't use direct charges in this room either. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103326	But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen is not right when Mr. Joachim B. Olsen claims that there is a plan to make a profit. What is planned is that the government says you want to spend less money. If you have to live up to the demographic move, you will see a gradual erosion of the welfare system, and that shakes Mr. Joachim B. Olsen on his head, but the Treasury confirms that's the case. Well, then, sir. Joachim B. Olsen jumps and dances on one leg and shouts no, no, no, but the truth is that we will see that our welfare system is being eroded that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103410	Thank you. Mrs Josephine Fock, a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103415	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the financial bill of the Social Democratic Party, which I think has many very good positive tactics. One of the things I would like to focus on, and I am sure that is not surprising to the rapporteur, is the green one. I heard the rapporteur say that the Social Democratic Party would like to have a green Denmark and disagree with the fact that green national accounts should be dropped, and I am, of course, very pleased about that. What I would like to ask is the registration fee. Could the rapporteur mention what kind of ideas the Social Democratic Party has about a registration fee which actually promotes green Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103457	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103458	Thank you for your question, and also thank you for recognising our criticism of the fact that we are no longer making a green account, which we think is quite wrong. This is a little like the fact that poverty is no longer being measured, and poverty does not disappear either. There is a unique opportunity now, in terms of car taxes, for the time being that the government has come up with a proposal that has in practice stalled car sales. And as long as it has not been clarified, there will be no sale of a single car, either one that is a mess or one that is green. I do not think it is the government's intention that the car park should continue to grow older and older in this way; I think that the government also understands that there is a burning platform here. The proposals that are on the table to make a technically based tax, such as: We need to focus on safety and on emissions, so that the car park becomes as green as possible, we think we are extremely interesting. These are discussions we would like to take part in. I have also heard that other parties would like to participate in them, and I hope, of course, that the majority which is thereby manifesting itself bypassing the government and, in part, by means of the government of the Conservatives has also indicated that the same thing is being taken seriously and that some real negotiations are being started here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103615	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103616	Thank you. Then I would like to continue with the question. Now let's say that the government doesn't actually succeed with anything here, so it doesn't look so good. But what does the Social Democratic Party intend to do about a possible change of government? Will the Social Democratic Party then take the initiative to call parties in order to change the registration fee so that it becomes more dependent on CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103648	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103649	I mean, if this really is the case and I can't even see the consequences if it's the case that the government just leaves it here and doesn't address the issue of car charges very quickly, it's going to be irresponsible. So in this way one has to say that, of course, it may well be that it ends up triggering an election. I shall not be able to reject that and then it is a different situation. However, I simply do not see it as realistic that this should be clarified only in 2019. In fact, it will put the car sales at a complete standstill. So what must be the intention now is for us to do something decent and something broad. And, of course, I hope that all parties, including the alternative, will be involved in those negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103735	Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103737	Thanks for the presentation. We share a great deal of the concern of the Social Democrats about the many savings in the welfare sector, even though the Radical Left would like us to have the courage and the will to carry out reforms so that we could both get the tax cuts that can provide the people who have to take up our labour market and, at the same time, be able to afford to invest in our elderly, in our young people, in the future. The last area I have just been reading about in the draft budget of the Social Democratic Party, and I welcome the fact that we are going to preserve vocational training next year. But that, of course, also raises the question immediately: what about the high schools, what about the universities, what about the research? What about everything that should both give our young people the opportunity to unfold themselves, but which is also what Denmark must live on to provide qualified employees for our companies? Will the Social Democrats not also help to protect them, or will they continue to accept that what has in fact made Denmark Denmark Denmark, our education programmes, is being cut down sharply?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103843	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103845	We think it is unwise to save on what we have to live on in the future, but we also have to be realistic and say that if we are going to get into a negotiating table and make our influence felt, we also have to give priority. And it is clear that when we lack 70 000 skilled workers in a few years' time, it is no use cutting down on vocational training. I have great sympathy for the desire to preserve the entire education sector, but if we are going to enter a negotiating table in 2017 and have an impact on the financial law agreement, we will have to make priorities quite realistically, and that is what we are doing here. What we had to do after a parliamentary election, of course, we will return to when we know how many accidents the current government has been able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103932	Here you go, sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907103934	The problem, at least as I see it, when I visit both colleges and vocational schools and all other educational institutions in the country, is that the savings that affect them in these years hit hard. And they'd be very happy to know, both if they can't trust that the opposition will all go hard on these savings at least after a parliamentary election but also that we can find that money. And so it is no more that we need to be able to give our children and young people the best start to life, both for themselves and for us. Therefore, I would just like to appeal to the Social Democratic Party to consider whether, next year, we will not be able to find the money we are talking about many billion kroner that will be needed for us to be able to keep high schools, production colleges, universities and the many, many young people whose lives we are thus holding in our hands. At any rate, I find it difficult to find a place where it makes less sense to save than our children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104032	Personally, I do not think it makes sense to save on the elderly, which is why the point is that priorities need to be set. And again, I'm gonna apologize, but now I can't see sir. Martin Lidegaard; it is a little frustrating that if we are to give priority to the framework laid down by the government and make it realistic, and that is what we are dealing with, then we also say that the most important thing is vocational training. But I have a great deal of sympathy for the radical point of view, not least given that since the present Prime Minister became Prime Minister, there have actually been 3,200 fewer employees in the education sector, and this shows the pressure that the education sector has come under.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104119	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104124	Thank you. I would like to pursue this a little, because it is, of course, very nice to read the Socialists' draft Finance Act in relation to business. One wonders why we have a Prime Minister who speaks himself in favour of particularly vulnerable young boys who need a helping hand, and then so much is being cut in those vocational schools where we need to do something with these resources. Sir. Martin Lidegaard has asked the question I would have asked about the overall education system. In the SF's draft Finance Act, money has been set aside for this, but I would like to move on to another question, because the rapporteur has replied to that: on the hospital area, where the Socialists would like to help remove or at least compensate for the 2% re-priority contribution as early as next year. Will the rapporteur not say a little more about this? Because we're really happy in SF that we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104222	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104224	Thank you for recognising also that part of our proposal for the financial law negotiations. Of course, we also note that there are parties, including in the blue block, which have indicated that they have some views on it, and we hope, of course, that this will bring the necessary pressure. That is also why we want to be involved in a financial bill debate, so that we can ensure that there is just a little more air in the hospitals, so that nurses, doctors and all other staff in the hospitals can give priority to what is important and, at the same time, we can shave down the waiting lists for cancer treatment in particular.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104304	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104307	Thank you for your answer. I also think that what the rapporteur himself says here, and also what the Socialists have put forward in their own draft budget, shows that politics is also very much a matter of priorities. If we want to give priority to the money for tax relief, which has the built-in bias, mostly to the rich, or if we want to put an end to the savings that have been made in, for example, the United Kingdom. our health care. One of the most important things for the citizens of this country is to have security if they get sick or someone they care about gets sick. So it is, after all, a question of what you want to spend the money on and what you want to prioritise. Hopefully we can get some help there too from the Danish People's Party, which has also spoken out about this, so that we can have it removed as early as next year. In any case, we would like to thank the Social Democrats for being willing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104356	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104358	We are very happy to contribute to ensuring that the Danish People's Party can live up to their promises in this area and also to defending welfare, for example. In many ways I think it is important that we ensure broad cooperation in the Folketing. That is also why I do not understand the government's approach in many areas, where it is very, very much desirable to make the agreements narrow rather than to look at what it really is that is the broad majority for in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104429	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104437	Thank you. I wonder why the Social Democratic Party believes that it should be so difficult to find the means to ease the tax in Denmark. We have the highest tax burden in the world, at least in the OECD. We have the third highest level of public expenditure in the OECD. We have a situation where very many Danes are on public support: 47 per cent. of those who are adults are on transfer income. When does Social Democracy think it is enough? When is the thirst to expand public opinion out? When has the welfare state been satisfied in the view of the Social Democratic Party? Should it continue to grow, should we have even more on public support, should we have even more public spending, should we have an even higher tax burden, or are we just satisfied with the status quo? How big should the welfare state be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104530	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104532	I heard a very interesting broadcast on P1 on Monday, in an otherwise interesting series, which Denmark's Radio is broadcasting with the five current ministers and the four former prime ministers. It was the former prime minister, sir. Anders Fogh Rasmussen, who expressed his thoughts on the welfare agreement, the 2006 welfare settlement. After all, I think that it made it very clear what the challenges we faced in 2006 were. It was that we knew that there would be far more older people. From today until 2025 we can expect 150,000 more Danes over 70 years of age. And despite that, sir. Rasmus Jarlov would, of course, like to raise the pensionable age, and I agree with that, so I assume that even Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, however, would like to allow people to enjoy their retirement, and thus also that the people who need the welfare society will also be able to benefit from it over the years. We have to make sure of that. That is why we need to keep our agreements and the agreement is that the 2006 money should be spent on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104646	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104648	Yes, but does the Social Democratic Party even recognize the problem? So, the Social Democratic Party recognises that we have a public sector that is extremely large in Denmark and that we would be richer if we could lower our taxes? Does the Social Democratic Party recognise that, for example, if we reduced the top tax, we would become a richer country with a higher GDP? Does Social Democracy even understand that there is a problem? Because I hear only the Social Democrats speak badly of the intention to reduce the tax burden and make the public fill a little more. Is it just out of need because the Social Democrats do not believe that it is possible, or is the Social Democrats simply vertical towards making the public fill less?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104736	Well, we don't think that the public sector as a starting point should fill less. We believe, in fact, that the public sector must deliver what the public sector is doing today. That's fair and fair. For this reason, it was also foresight that a broad political consensus was reached in 2006 with the participation of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservative and Radical Left. For the whole challenge I think, even though the old bomb was mentioned at the time, which is a terrible expression: that we will have a changed demographic composition, that is, that there will be more people who need the welfare society, we knew well then. We have always known this would happen, and that is why we have obviously had to prepare ourselves for it. Then it is just that we have to say that if we do not ensure the basics that have been promised to the Danes, but start to lay the money off on tax cuts, especially tax cuts for the richest, then we are no longer buying the premise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104835	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Rasmus Jarlov I've got mine twice). Well, okay, it may be a little difficult here today, so we have to help each other with everything. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104854	Thank you for what I feel set aside, withdrawn to the year 2010, when the message from the Social Democratic Party was: No to tax cuts, yes to more welfare. It was opposed to top tax relief, but thought that there should be more warm hands, that more money should be given to SKAT and that a green change in registration fee should be made. Then what happened a year after the government came into power? Top tax concessions were made, the number of day care providers was reduced, and the rapporteur, as Minister, further cut down on SKAT, in other words, despite promises to the contrary. And there was no green change in the registration fee... the Danes were allowed to pay 1 billion. kr. more in registration fee. I just want to understand: what is it that makes the Danes believe what the Social Democracy says today when the same message from the Social Democracy in 2010 was followed by exactly the opposite political results?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907104959	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105001	This is partly because there is clearly no majority in favour of the government's planned policy; then it can be said that one should perhaps start by asking: what does Denmark really need? That's what we do. And Denmark does not need any relief from marginal tax. We do not need the 1,000 richest Danes to have a tax relief of DKK 190,000. Finally, if tax relief is to be granted, it must be at the bottom; if all our other priorities are to be well-being, security, the green and to create growth, among other things. through the upgrading of the skills is fulfilled and there may be a room for manoeuvre left, then we can talk about tax breaks, but then it is at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105045	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105048	However, excuse me, it was exactly the same message in 2010, and yet the Social Democratic Party chose to grant top tax relief, to lower corporation tax, to reduce the transfer income for benefit recipients, for cash benefit recipients and for early retirement. I just think it must be a little difficult for the Social Democrats to be credible to have the same message again, so when we know that the last time they said it, they did the opposite. But I don't think we'll get that much further. I would just like to ask you something about this little pamphlet that the Social Democratic Party has now published and called a financial bill. That is a little thin-legged, because I can now hear that the Social Democrats in their rapporteur's speech are going against this VAT compensation scheme, but where does the 12-page pamphlet with a financial bill show? It doesn't say anything about it. That is why I can expect and imagine that it will be the socialist strategy: that we talk about a great deal and then hide behind a small 12-page pamphlet, which does not recognize that part of the room for manoeuvre that has been created and is available, among other things. is due to a 2009 tax reform against which the Social Democratic Party was opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105151	Let me remind you, the second time you only have 30 seconds. It may be a little hard to keep up with today, but we'll just have to try. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105159	We are, of course, endeavouring to keep to the speaking time (I have no doubt about that), even though it may be difficult to keep up with, of course. Well, I can tell that Mr. Knox... Torsten Schack Pedersen is a little annoyed that we have actually presented our policy and that we have also set out full funding for it because it is the same funding that the government has, but these are just some other priorities. And yes, within that one can also prevent a huge challenge for volunteer Denmark. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen can, of course, just stop listening to what I am saying here; yes, excuse me for trying to answer Mr Schack Pedersen's question. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Why do you want to hit volunteer Denmark? This also means something for the coherence of Denmark, and of course it can be financed within the overall scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105246	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm. No, I don't think she's here, so we're gonna keep jumping. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105259	Thank you very much. One of the great challenges we face in these times is integration. When I read the proposals of the Social Democratic Party, there is no indication of what many of us have been hoping for a long time for an answer to: what the Social Democrats will do in relation to the benefits of integration. The integration service is the very central tool of the current government, firstly to ensure that it is not unnecessarily attractive to come to Denmark, and secondly to ensure that those who are already in Denmark and are not in work do not become an unnecessary burden. Can the rapporteur say what the Social Democrats intend to do in this direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105343	But Mr. After all, Marcus Knuth has followed the debate so closely that he also knows that what we care about is the children. And, as you know, we could not be in the agreement that was. Our concern remains with regard to the families of children, and that is, of course, unchanged.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105400	Here you go, sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105401	In other words, I can conclude that social democracy will change the benefits of integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105408	If that is how we can enter into negotiations on this, then it is clear that we have some concerns about children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105414	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105426	We have been able to understand in the debate that we have not been able to get any promise from the Social Democrats to roll back such a tax reform as the government wants, after an election, if there is a new majority at least no concrete promise. Okay. But can we have a promise that, after a forthcoming election, social democracy will pursue economic policy and a policy at all which, at least at an overall level, reduces inequality in society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105503	In fact, I do not think that we have touched on the question of what should happen to tax cuts. I think we've been talking about car taxes. It may be that Mr. Rune Lund has found one of the Left's speech papers, because I think that is one of the questions that should have been asked from them to us. I see it's coming over too. Now it is the case that I can hear what is being said by the parties that are not part of the government, and when the Danish People's Party is thundering against top tax relief, whether they are called top tax relief in practice or in disguise, I cannot see that there is a majority in favour of giving, for example, the thousand richest Danes DKK 190,000. More after taxes. So it will be a relatively hypothetical situation as to whether something for which there is no majority should be rolled back. When we know in an election what the current government has created of unpleasantness, it is clear that we will consider the situation from there and in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105607	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105609	After all, we have had a very intensive debate on the tax proposal that has come from the government, also outside this Landstingssal, and I am sorry that it cannot be said right now that the first thing, if there is an inequality-building tax reform, will of course look at how to roll it back. I really think it is a problem that the Social Democrats cannot declare it. However, could we at least have a general report on whether, in this situation, when a new majority will hopefully emerge after a forthcoming election, a policy will lead to less inequality between the top and the rest of Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105643	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105645	What we want to measure in particular is that we should be lucky enough to take over government responsibility, what we naturally hope for is that we create real equal opportunities. It is not enough to measure the Gini coefficient; we also need to look at whether we can actually ensure that the daughter of an alcoholic or the son of an unskilled has a real opportunity to move forward in life and do better and break the social legacy. That's what we want to be measured on... should we be lucky enough to take over government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105718	Thank you. And the next one, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105726	Thank you. I'm gonna have to follow up on sir. Rune Lund's question, because I do not think the rapporteur answered a really very simple question. So now I will try to ask the same question and I hope I am making it so clear that yes or no can be answered. Will the rapporteur guarantee that, once the Social Democratic Party regains government power, we will not once again make a tax reform, as we did in 2012, in which people on transfer income were very much paid for tax cuts to them at the top? Can we get such a guarantee from the Social Democratic Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105809	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105811	The 2012 tax reform was about lifting the limit on top tax, so that a regular worker, the nurse, the metal worker, etc., was not covered by it. This means that there are approx. 10% of the Danish population, the widest shoulders, which carry the heaviest load, which pays top tax on the whole lengths of wooden shoes, one has to earn half a million to get over the top tax limit. There's no need to do that again. That task has been completed, and therefore there is no need to repeat the exercise that we did in 2012 and which, moreover, happened at a time when Denmark was in a heavy economic crisis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105850	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105853	Thank you. However, as several of the bourgeois rapporteurs have pointed out, when we went to elections in 2011, the Social Democrats felt that tax cuts should not be granted at all, and that is why it is natural that I should like a guarantee that the Social Democrats will not do such a thing again. Now the rapporteur says there is no need for this. We must hope that the Social Democratic Party also believes this after a parliamentary election. But then comes the natural question: There is a growing inequality between people on transfer income and people in work as a result of the tax reform that was made in 2012 and may even get worse with what the government is doing together with the Danish People's Party, so what is the Social Democratic response to, for example. in relation to the fact that purchasing power is seriously reduced by the tax agreement made in 2012 alone?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105947	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907105948	As I said, I have explained what we are going to do in relation to the inequality debate. We want to create real opportunities and be measured by creating real equal opportunities for everyone. That said, sir. Finn Sørensen also mentioned something quite central, because it is quite true that one of the challenges we can face in a short time is if the government gets through with that hidden catalogue of 5.25 billion. kr., which will not be specified, so that we do not know whether it is the pensioners or the recipients of cash benefits or the SU recipients who have to pay the 5.25 billion. kr. for tax reliefs. So I also understand that part of Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen's concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110034	Thank you. The next one is sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110042	Thank you. After all, we have talked a great deal about tax cuts so far in the debate, but we do not seem to agree on that. That is why I think it might be better to talk about something we are more in agreement on, or we may actually agree on. There was a lot of talk about cashiers, but as defense rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, I'd rather talk about soldiers. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht referred very briefly to this in his rapporteur's speech and said that it is a joint task to strengthen the defence. I am, and I am quite sure of my colleagues in the blue block too. Benny Engelbrecht in, and that means probably more money for the defense. But is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht as the financial rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party did not also agree with you that we should then ensure that the more money is spent properly and that the money we are spending on defence at the moment is spent properly. In this context, I would also like to hear about the attitude of the Social Democratic Party towards the small half billion kroner currently being spent on training military service in the Defence, and the approx. 3,500 young people sent home, corresponding to approx. 85%
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110156	Yes, please! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110158	I did not even know that the defence negotiations had begun. Of course, I would have taken the big guns to the platform today. We must, of course, take that at the negotiating table. I hope that we will also be able to make broad agreements on this point. I think it is very important that defence agreements are broadly based. Then I must remind you that when I highlight security, yes, we recognise that there are challenges in defence that need to be resolved. After all, we also have a prison system, and we also have a police force, which I have also explicitly said should be strengthened in order to ensure the daily safety of our citizens. Thus, when the gangs rule on some streets in major cities in Denmark, more visible police are needed not only in the larger cities but also in the smaller cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110253	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110254	Thank you for your answer. Then it would be natural if I continued to ask Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, whether the Social Democratic Party is still going to abolish the But I really don't want to do that. Instead, I would like to ask the former tax minister, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht on how it can be that the government, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht himself was part of, never had the green change in the registration fee, which was otherwise part of the government basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110322	Because unfortunately there was no majority in favour of it. Now it is the case that the present government has proposed something that is not a majority in favour either, but because it has been said openly, loudly yes, it actually started before the summer with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen went out and announced on the front page of the Stock Exchange that now there were changes to the registration fee. So we have a burning platform. Not only will new cars not be sold, but it is also the case that if there is a Danish car owner today thinking: I have a car that I would like to get rid of, then it is only a pity, because the used car will hardly buy, that is, unless you send it for scrap. That is why we need to do something now, and we declare ourselves ready for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110404	Thank you. The next one is sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110411	Thank you. In the past, the rapporteur's speech showed that, in relation to the financial law of the Social Democratic Party, the funding was the same for all the good gifts that the Social Democrats are now going to give, as the government has put forward, that is to say, the same as the government's financial law proposal. Can I conclude, then, that the Social Democratic Party supports job reform I, which is part of the basis for funding, and in which we create a ceiling on cash benefits? I just need to understand. Otherwise, it is a bit too creative to stand here and hand out mild gifts and point out a funding that is, moreover, opposed. So does this mean that the Social Democratic Party supports the ceiling on cash benefits and supports the benefits of integration, or how am I supposed to understand that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110517	As I have already explained, we are not in favour of integration. We have some concerns about children in particular, and we can then come back to that if we want to open up to it. In relation to the ceiling on cash aid, we are also not included in it and, as we have seen from our amendments to the financial regulations in the past years, we have also addressed the issue of setting aside a pool for a roll-back, and this will of course be the case here. It is clear that we would like to enter a negotiating table, but of course we also have a reserve to address that part of it. So, basically, this does not alter, as I have also outlined, the fact that we have reviewed our funding elements, and it should be remembered that we have also said that we would like to withdraw the reduction of the inheritance tax proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110612	Here you go, sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110613	Thank you. It was a very long answer or attempt to answer a specific question. I must conclude that the Social Democratic Party will not roll back the ceiling on cash aid. The Social Democratic Party would like to discuss the integration service... there is something with some rubber boots, some winter boots and some thermosuits that you want to grant but otherwise you stand by the integration service. Is that the way I should understand that answer? So you do not want to roll back the ceiling on cash benefits, and you would like to talk about the benefits of integration? There are just a few elements, but otherwise you stand by the benefits of integration? Otherwise it is not connected; otherwise the funding is not linked at all to the proposal made by the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110659	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110700	Yes, it does, and that is why it was important for me just to stress the part of the inheritance tax that Mr. Hans Andersen there conveniently avoided mentioning in relation to it. But it is really quite simple. If we are going to a negotiating table now, we can read the mandates in the Folketing and see that there are 90 mandates for government policy and that one can change that part of it is probably not realistic. But what we are going to do after a parliamentary election, we will also be presenting there. It's clear, and that time will come, and if mr. Hans Andersen wants to speed it up, so please for me. Then we can make a quick parliamentary election, but maybe it'll take a while before we get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110744	Thank you. In fact, time has passed, but since virtually everyone has exceeded the speaking time, because today it is very difficult to find out when to stop every day it is so easy to keep to all the speaking time, but that is not what we are doing today. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left, as the last. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110802	Thank you. I just want to follow up on that question, sir. Martin Lidegaard asked where I thought the answer was a little difficult to understand. Well, if I understand, sir... Benny Engelbrecht today and what the Social Democratic Party has described correctly, it is of course that it is believed that there is room for manoeuvre and that this room for manoeuvre should be used in the public sector. And what is then asked is whether we are opposed to the planned savings in education, which are part of the government's financial bill, i.e. 2% savings in all youth education, all higher education. The answer to this is that the Social Democrats have chosen to give priority so that they are only opposed to the savings in vocational training. And then I just say that I do not understand: if you think there is room for more room for manoeuvre, why, in the negotiations with yourself, have you chosen to give priority to making savings in the majority of the education sector and to exclude only one area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110859	First of all, because we are able to read the political reality, sir. Morten Østergaard. Well, I can hear what it is that is already a majority for in the Folketing and how to influence it. For example, when the Danish People's Party has indicated that professional education is something they also care about, we hope to be able, if I may say so, to kick in an open door. Because we are opposed to the savings, especially those in skilled training. It is quite simple, I suppose, that when you have to negotiate with a government that has a majority, a parliamentary basis, in place, you will of course also have to read the political reality that exists. And even if we had made the priority of taking it all with us, Mr. Morten Østergaard may well come up with in his play so I don't think it was possible to get it through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110955	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907110956	Well, it's usually the kind of thing that the financial bill you put forward is what you'd do if you got the power you've been paying attention to. That is why it is no different from the fact that if the Social Democratic Party could decide for itself what the Finance Act should look like, then all parts of the education system should be reduced. Every hf centre, every gymnasium, every business academy, every professional college and every university had to be reduced, despite the fact that there is room for increased welfare. That is why I have to sit back with the impression that the Social Democratic Party is opposed to savings in vocational training throughout the year and to savings in education for most of the year, just not when it comes to negotiating financial law. And it is a little crucial when this year you are opposed to it, because it is in the financial law negotiations that it is clarified. That is why I find it regrettable that, despite reference to room for manoeuvre, it is considered necessary to save most of the education system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907111048	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907111050	I know it can be difficult, including for Radicals, to read what the Social Democrats are putting forward. What we have put forward are our priorities in the context of the financial law negotiations: what is it that we really want to influence? In addition, it is also clear that we have indicated what should happen up to 2025 in the event that, after the next elections, we take over the power of government, and these are basically two different situations. That is why we also say: if we are invited to the negotiating table this time we haven't been in the last few years... then our main priority is to eliminate the savings that have been made on professional education. I think this is so clear and clear that the radical parliamentary group also understands that it is a priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907111138	Thank you. Then we will make a brief replacement of the President because of a necessary errand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907111149	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907111200	Thank you. Then we stand here debating the government's financial bill. Why I actually start by saying that is because that's what it is. We have waited a little longer than usual for it, and it came in a sort of three-step rocket. •How to extend the recovery •, •Sammen om fremtidens virksomheder • and •A safe and coherent Denmark •. Those are good headlines. It's like Christmas Eve when you get such nice packages where the paper cracks. We all remember it from when we were kids, and you were really happy, and then you unpacked, but sometimes it was soft packages, and then you got a little disappointed anyway. But now we have it and we recognise, of course, that the government always has the opportunity as a government to make its proposal to the Finance Act. It is the case that the Danish People's Party is going to these negotiations with some nuggets that we would like to have discussed. One of the huge lumps that we have with us is, of course, the requirement of 2%, which has been in the area of health, ever since the regions were born, and I would like to say that the Danish People's Party has not always opposed the demand for 2%, and I do not think that the whole Parliament has done so either. In fact, we should be glad that the regions have done very well. The requirement of 2%. has had a fantastic effect in relation to what is produced in the health care system. The challenge is that the tool is no longer working, it should have actually been replaced years ago, but unfortunately it has not happened. It is the case with health care that it is an agreement that is being made between the government in place and the regions at all times. This means that the government has a mandate to make the agreement and, of course, the regions also have a mandate from the regions to enter into the agreement. There we, as the Danish People's Party and the rest of the parties in the Danish Parliament, have no mandate, but we do, precisely when making the Finance Act, and that is why we have taken the mandate to the Finance Act, that we want the demand of 2%. should go away and also like in 2018. Can it be done in 2018? In fact, we think it can. Then why can it? The regions have announced that they can live with their budgets being cancelled later. This means that if we move the process forward a little in relation to the working group that has been set up and that looks at what the new tools we need in relation to the regions should be, then it can be completed so that the budgets can be withdrawn at a later stage. Why is it important for the Danish People's Party to have a new scheme withdrawn? One has to remember in connection with this competition that is in here at Christiansborg, that there is a rapid outbid policy in it. If one tells us we need 1,000 cops, then the other tells us we need 1,200 cops. If there is to be 1,000 of anything, the others say there must be some more, so there is overbidden policy in it. First, 2019 was said, then 2018 is said, but now the regions have played a positive role. You just have to remember that the regions are a huge organization. There are a lot of employees, and are they going to go around for a whole year and wait for something else to come? I just want to say to you that it may well be that it seems logical in Christiansborg to say that now we're just making such a middle year where you just find out how to finance it, and then you should know that something else will come along. There, of course, we will use our mandate to say that we shall try that, but no doubt that the 2% requirement. but 2018 we think we're completely realistic in terms of getting rid of the 2 per cent requirement. Another thing that has filled a great deal has been car taxes. It has also filled a great deal in recent weeks, and I would like to say from the Danish People's Party that we really hope that an agreement will be reached within a short time. There is no doubt that the whole market out there, both the dealers, but indeed also the buyers, i.e. those who have to buy a car, are in a vacuum now and do not dare to take the active action, it is also to sell or buy a car. Then we should remember that buying a car for most people is the second largest investment after buying real estate, so we simply cannot be familiar if this is going to take a very, very long time. Another thing that has filled a lot in the debate here, after we got these three presentations, is the tax. There is no doubt that the government wants a lot on tax, and one can only say that it is fair enough that the government has a desire to lighten the tax by up to 23 billion. kr. I just have to say quite clearly that there is no such thing in our model. Why isn't there? I would like to say that the Danish People's Party is not a party that wants the Danes to pay as much tax as possible - certainly not! But, of course, we are a party, we are politicians and we give priority to how the money available can be used. And there we just have to say that in welfare areas we have some challenges that we need to solve first. And what is that? This is among other things. In the health field, which I have mentioned, among other things. with the requirement of 2%, and that is among other things. in the area of the elderly. What is it about the elderly, what is needed out there? Many people are talking about this picture of the elderly sitting out there with wet diapers and other things. Stop talking the employees down out there, because it is not a picture that is true; it is not the case that the employees who are employed in the municipalities, the SOSU assistants and the others who are out there are completely indifferent to the elderly. They actually deliver a really good result out there, and the vast majority of older people are actually satisfied with the service they get. But, of course, there is still a need for a lift, and why is there? That's because there's gonna be more older people. It is like everywhere else: when more customers are looking for a product, and here it is more elderly people who are looking for a product, then of course you have to expand the capacity in relation to the employees as well. I would just like to say that we in the Danish People's Party do not talk down to those who are employed in the sector and say that they are doing quite awful, bad work. They need to strengthen the professionalism that is out there; they need to strengthen that they have more colleagues because there are more elderly people they need to look after out there. It is not only more warm hands that are needed, because another thing that is also needed in the area of the elderly is housing for the elderly. When we grow older, even older, who have a need for care, older people who cannot stay in their own homes anymore, there is also pressure to build more elderly homes, and that is of course because the elderly must also have adequate housing in relation to the challenges they now face in life, and therefore it is a binding task to find more funds for that area. It can't be any different. How are we going to finance it? In the government's proposal, I would just like to take two small examples. Of course, there are many who would say that it is just tampered with out of a context, but since it is nevertheless chosen to spend so much money on, among other things. tax relief, when you turn the many pages of the Finance Act through, you can also see the small numbers, which are not so many who notice. If you take such a small thing as the Consumer Council, you can see that here you cut the basic allocation by 5 million. If I may use the expression that the money, the basic amount, must not be used in the future to participate in the public debate. What on earth is a consumer council supposed to do if it is not to participate in the public debate? I would just like to point out why we may not have so many accidents in the daily institutions in Denmark, because perhaps it is also because the Consumer Council is looking at a flight suit and looking at what strings are in it to prevent you from being strangled on a swing if you are suddenly not under the supervision of an adult. All these things that you have done, where you have made sure that we have some products in Denmark that are of high quality, are really good, and I just want to say that the 5 million. kr. I mean, it's not like they're the ones who save a bill. But it's the kind of thing that shines in your eyes when you look. 7 million kr. for Deaf movies. What's this all about? It is not actually many years ago, I do not remember how many, but it was a few years ago, because I myself was involved in what we actually recognised as sign language is a mother tongue, but now you write in a Finance Act that the offer we have, that is, the service that is to the deaf, among other things. On TV and other things, you want to narrow down. Of course, you don't want to restrict this about public service and knowledge, that is, TV news and everything else, but why on earth shouldn't you have entertainment because you're deaf? Of course you have to! Nor is it the 7 million. kr. that does it. It's just to say that a finance bill is a lot like that 23 billion. kr. Over here, 10 billion. kr. Over there, but it's also 5 million. kr. 7 million kr., and you have to pay attention to that when you talk about Finance Act. The way in which we are going to find some funding is, among other things, the way in which we are going to find it. also with profit principles. And what is this? We have been talking about profit principles for many years, and a few years ago we were told that this could not be done at all, and the European Union came after us, and human rights, and we were told that profit principles cannot be done. We now have it on children's cheques, we have it on cash benefits, we have it on early retirement, and we want to expand it. Then why do we want to do that? We will, because we want to safeguard our welfare benefits, because we are actually proud of the welfare society that we have, and we are actually proud that if, for a period of time, you are out of work, if you have a really hard time in life, you can actually get some benefits so that you can maintain a reasonable standard of living. The challenge then is that what our social legislation says in Section 2 is that anyone legally resident in Denmark can search for this law. More and more people find that out, including people who stay here for a shorter or longer period. That is why, of course, we want profit principles to come, otherwise a government that is still in office, whether red or blue or whatever colour it is, will have a discussion in a few years' time about how this is financed, whether the benefits should be cut, whether the SU should be smaller, whether we should not have this benefit. There we say that we will have the same benefits, because the welfare society that we have today will also have to have tomorrow, and that is why what we say about the principles of profit is a safeguard rule in order to maintain the welfare society that we know today. Then I would also like to say very openly that it is clearly also an alien tightening. We do so with open eyes, very open eyes. There is no doubt that Denmark is also interesting, especially for refugees and immigrants, among others. because we have a welfare system which from day one also opens up to the group of citizens who come to Denmark. Another thing that the Danish People's Party has with it is, of course, border controls. We would like to maintain it and also to expand it. I also sign that the government has said today that, of course, there must be border controls in Denmark. The protection we have at the border works. Last year we had to fight 220 million. kr. to finance the border controls that we have, and we will, of course, do that again, because that is important. Then I can see from the President that time is running out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112236	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112240	Thank you, President. Thank you, sir. René Christensen on behalf of the rapporteur. I take note of the things that are being expressed about the 2-percent requirement. It's noted. I just need to be sure, for the record, that sir... René Christensen and the Danish People's Party have also understood the statements that have come from other parts of the Danish Parliament, the clear statement that is about the abolition, and whether it is the case that this will be a priority issue in the financial negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112319	I can guarantee that this will be a question that is being asked, and it is also a priority. It is, in fact, one of the highest priorities we have. But what's also interesting now you can't ask questions like that back from here... is also this competition with whether it should be 2018 or 2019. Since the regions are opening up to the fact that they can actually live with the fact that they will have their budgets implemented later on, I think that they really are showing an open door. Then I also hope that there will be a majority in the Folketing and, in fact, also with the government, that when we agree that we have to get rid of this 2-percent requirement, then we have to do it the right way, so that we do not have such a vacuum where this huge organization has to go and wait for what it is for a system that comes in place and then translate the budget a little later, if that is possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112403	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112405	A number of reports have also been received from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Chairman of the Danish People's Party. The latest report was yesterday, I believe, in a week's letter in which Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl states that what lies on the part of the government in relation to the registration fee is to compare with top tax incentives. I should just like to understand, when it is said in this way, if that is the case, when the Danish People's Party says no to top tax concessions, that this is also a clear rejection of the government's proposal in the area of registration fees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112443	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112445	I would say that it is also a great deal about priorities. I would also like to say straight away that we do not feel that we mean something ugly about directors. It has gradually become the case that those who are directors are such evil ones. In fact, I do not think so, because they are also the ones who create jobs. It's about priorities, and we just want to say that the model that has been put forward by the government, we don't want this flat 100-percent model because it's crooked. In fact, it is not the cars that are sold most of which benefit most from it. We want a more technical model. And why is that? So it is, to be perfectly honest, to close the debate. We can't put both buyers and the industry in this situation year after year. If you made it at 100, I am convinced that some next years will come and say: now it is at 100; however, should it not be at 90 now? And then we have this market. It does not work in Denmark. We have to make a scheme that we agreed on where we get some better and cheaper cars for the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112535	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112539	Thank you, and thank you, sir. René Christensen for one as always good and sober speech, also in terms of content. I personally welcome that remark about the regions and that there is a great deal of concern about them, but we will come back to that later on. As Mr. René Christensen rightly says that the Finance Act is a matter of priority. It's about giving priority to how to see the future, how to see the opportunities. Specifically, how would Mr. René Christensen gives priority if he has to choose between giving a prize to those who are in work or giving an increase in transfer income?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112614	Here you go, sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112619	I would like to say that we do not want to cut transfer income in any way. We also say that when we look at the tax system, we would like to be part of it if there is room for it. We have one thing, of course, and I would like to say this first: the welfare society, of which we are very proud, and there we have some challenges, and we can also solve them. We must remember that there is actually room for manoeuvre. After all, we are in a situation where people need money to do something, and that is also why we are discussing what we should do. We need to solve this first. Then we would like to help ensure that hard-working Danes also get a little more out of work with the SOSU assistant and the nurse who runs out in the hospital.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112655	Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112657	Let me ask you in concrete terms, because I am pleased with that announcement. The possibility is to give the hard-working Dane in the labour market a little more of his own money through a tax relief, where it is an alternative to remove the integration benefit and the cash aid ceiling, not to cut, but to increase the costs in relation to the transfer income area. So if sir... René Christensen must choose between giving funds and allowing people to keep a little more of their own money, i.e. those in the labour market, or spending the same money on increasing transfer income by removing the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration benefit, what will the Danish People's Party choose?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112736	After all, we have been banner leaders for the benefit of integration, so of course we could not propose to remove it again. But again, we are the party that invented the old cheque, and that is certainly something that we have included in the negotiations here. If there is an additional room for manoeuvre in relation to the funding we have, I can promise that people on transfer income, including pensioners who, for example, receive elderly cheques, are also on our note and we would like to help raise the elderly cheque. So it is not the case that you are either in employment or you are outside employment. We would also like to help perhaps in another way to help people who are on cash benefits, perhaps not to raise cash benefits, but to ensure that there are some good offers to get closer to the labour market through skills and other things. Then it is a both- and in relation to being outside the labour market and being in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112823	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112826	Thank you. We have heard the rapporteur say that profit principles will be introduced at the SU. I don't think you have to be the world champion of the bill to know that it's not a lot of money in it. After all, for the majority of foreigners who receive it, EU and EEA citizens have seniority from the countries from which they come. So it's not much money. Then it is well up to the government's goal to save just over 5 billion. kr. on transfer income. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur will reject the government's objective of saving just over 5 billion. kr. on transfer income and whether the rapporteur will give a guarantee that the Danish People's Party will not contribute to the reduction of benefits for pensioners, unemployed people, sick people, people with disabilities and students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112927	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907112928	Well, that is exactly what the whole argument is for us to say profit principles. That is because we do not want to go in and cut the individual performance. And that is why we say that we can see that some of our services are under pressure. This is partly because there are many people coming to Denmark. In fact, then, I do not agree with the rapporteur that we cannot create an income principle which does not also apply to citizens coming from the European Union. Of course we can. The challenge is, unfortunately, that when you do so it also affects Danish citizens, who, for example, travel out of Denmark for more than 12 months. Sometimes you have to pay a price. But we don't want to cut the SU. We are proud that we have an SU system that allows everyone to take an education in Denmark, no matter what family background you have. If you have the skills, you also have the opportunity to use it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113016	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113017	Thank you. So I did not hear the rapporteur answer any fairly clear questions. Will the rapporteur completely reject the government's proposal to save just over 5 billion? kr. on transfer income, which affects all the groups I mentioned? Will the rapporteur give a guarantee that we will not be helping to reduce the benefits of the groups I mentioned? That is a very clear question to which you can answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113044	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113046	Now, if you make a profit by making a profit principle, where does that money come from? Do they come from transfer income? Yes, they do. So I certainly won't guarantee that. I will not guarantee that when we make a proposal ourselves, we will not spend the money that comes out of that proposal. However, I can guarantee that we will not cut benefits for pensioners. We are not going to cut the individual performance in relation to the SU. I can guarantee that. But I can also guarantee that we will work to ensure that it becomes a limited group which has access to those services. That is what is meant by profit principles. And it's actually to protect the service itself. We are actually proud that we have a system whereby everyone has equal access to education. But we also have a social system which allows you to cover the costs you can have if you have a shorter or longer period of difficulty in life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113132	Thank you. Will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen have the floor? No, we're moving on. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113146	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I noted with regard to the registration fee that the Danish People's Party wants an agreement, but not the agreement that the government has put forward. I think that is very positive; I support that. I then noted that the rapporteur said: better and cheaper cars for the Danes. But he did not really mention what I have at least seen in the press that the Danish People's Party has also been out with, namely that it should also have a greener aim. So could the rapporteur clarify exactly what the Danish People's Party is thinking about in relation to the registration fee?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113226-2	Yeah, I can confirm that's what we're going for. We want safer and better cars and more environmentally friendly cars. And one way to do that is to get away from taxing the price of the product instead of taxing the product, as we are doing today. I mean, you don't really have one today, what to say, an approach to what kind of cars are driving. We dare, in fact, take political responsibility and say that we want to help, not decide what for some cars the Danes should buy, but at least make some incentives. And we want safer cars and we want greener cars. And I actually think that everyone who has walked on Hans Christian Andersen's Boulevard before has seen that there was a box. Now it has been moved, and it is perhaps convenient to measure how high the pollution was here. There were a lot of cars, and it was very high. We would like, of course, to see that in eight or ten years' time, if you do the measurement there, you see that pollution is significantly lower and you have not limited the driver's ability to drive. Among other things, you can. do by redeploying the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113324	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113325	Of course, I think that is very positive, and the alternative would very much like to take part in those negotiations too. Now it is not the Danish People's Party that calls them to do so. I am fully aware of that. One of the things that the Alternative is also very focused on and it plays a part in this debate is the whole debate on electric cars. Does the Danish People's Party intend to treat electric cars equally in relation to the other cars, or how does the rapporteur think the electric cars into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113358	At any rate, we must remember that it is true that electric cars do not use petrol, but then they use another form of energy. And that's why you can say that if you convert it in relation to what it really is for a factor you use, i.e. how many kilowatts an electric car uses, you can actually make some keys where it can be put into, what to say, the same model. So, compared to petrol cars and diesel cars, you can talk about kilometers on the gallon, and compared to electric cars, you can easily talk about how many kilowatts you spend driving. We must remember that there are also some challenges with regard to electric cars, but the rapporteur knows all about this in relation to what happens when the electric cars get old and how we handle the old batteries etc. etc. Of course, there is a challenge to having two different types of propellants in relation to the environment. But we think you can handle that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113443	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113449	I would really like to continue where Mrs Josephine Fock left off and talk a little more about politics. For the matter is that there is a massive majority in the Danish Parliament who, in fact, in this area would like to go the way of the Danish People's Party: The entire opposition, the Conservatives can also be understood and the Danish People's Party wants to change the registration fee in a green direction. In fact, it is not only a change in the registration fee, but of the car tax, because an option is also to lower registration fees and then set up the green owner fee, and that is also what I understand Dansk Folkeparti might be considering. However, the rapporteur can confirm this. But my political question is really: can we, like today, get a guarantee that the Danish People's Party, not for the sake of the Liberal Alliance, which is the only party that really wants it here, risks pawning the entire Danish car tax system so that we get massive reductions in registration tax, but without the green change that a broad majority of the Danish Parliament actually wants and which the Danish People's Party wants? I think that would be nice, and it would give a little peace of mind, because we are surprised that the government has actually said that they do not want anyone but the Danish People's Party with them, and therefore only the Danish People's Party can just as well issue that guarantee: that this will not be a narrowly adopted, unconscious reduction in registration tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113603	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113604	In any case, we have reported clearly and I do not think that is surprising to the government either, so it is not something I break from the platform that the model presented by the government does not seem to us to be good enough. Then why isn't it? It is not because it is still a model which, although at a low level, is based on the pricing of the product. That means that this lease challenge that we have is actually losing something close to 1 billion. kr. a year, and it's not because people make a good deal, no, it's because the community is missing out on that money. The product is not taxed correctly, because you get fleet discounts and other things, if you buy a lot of cars, which you can do if you lease out a lot of cars. Then you get a very, very large discount, that is to say that the registration fee will also be reduced. Of course, if everything comes down to 100%, the gap will be smaller, and perhaps it will not be 1 billion. DKK, but 800 million. kr., but by converting to technical parameters, including environment, safety and other, that hole will also be closed. That actually means that the money we lose is about 1 billion. kr. It is not the case that there is a contradiction as far as the result is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113710	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113712	Then I have to ask a little more precisely, because I fully agree, and I have to say that this is also why it makes sense to reduce the registration fee and the green ownership fees. The gap is being narrowed down to the issue of leasing, and I can see that the rapporteur is in complete agreement. And precisely because we are so in agreement, and because all parties, apart from the Liberal Alliance, actually agree to go that way I do not quite know where the Left is, they have had a bit of wandering opinions in that area I just ask: could we not then get the guarantee from the Danish People's Party today that we will not end up in a situation that will end up reducing registration fees towards what the government is proposing, with the narrowest possible majority, so that we do not get the security for the car owners that the Danish People's Party also wants? Unfortunately, only the Danish People's Party can give us that guarantee, and I hope that Mr. René Christensen will give it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113758	This case is a little more complicated than usual, because when we make politics, we usually discuss long, long, long. So we cannot do that here, because here we have to make a relatively quick decision. I would also like to say here from the platform today that if we cannot find a solution, the alternative is that nothing is done. Well, then we'll just keep the system we know today, and then we'll have to look at how to close the lease hole. That is an end to it if we cannot agree. So there are such several scenarios in terms of how this could end. But we certainly say that this is just not something we can continue to discuss month after month. We simply cannot be familiar with this. So either the parties here find a solution in which both the Danish People's Party and the government can themselves, or you do nothing, and the alternative must be that you close that lease hole in another way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113841	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907113847	Thank you. I'd like to continue a little bit in the same vein. Because, of course, this is an area of great importance, both for our pollution and for our CO2 so the rapporteur is absolutely right in saying that a decision must be taken fairly quickly. I am also pleased that the rapporteur says that we need to take into account the pollution, the environmental impact, the climate impact caused by our passenger transport. In such a debate, will the rapporteur also stress that we need to look at the total emissions, so not only look at what the individual car, after a new tax system, will derive, but also, and this can be made with some qualified estimates of what the total emissions will be? Because we could also have a change, where, because prices are getting so low, we see that the significant increases in car sales, as we have seen over the last year, continue and that the overall emissions, the overall environmental and climate impact, will thus increase. That was one question. The second is that the chairman of the Danish People's Party has been out to say that what the government has proposed is a little to compare with top tax concessions, just within the vehicle tax. Does this mean that in the model that the Danish People's Party will agree to, there must be a value element, so that you can see whether it is they who can afford to buy the most expensive cars that will also have the greatest relief in a future model? So, will you also continue to see a distribution profile in what the Danish People's Party wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114033	These are two rather important questions. In relation to the overall climate debate, I would like to say that we are also in line with the repair line, and why are we? You have to remember that the Minister for the Environment is not here anymore, he was here before • travelers are around in that now we need a circular economy; we should not use too many dishcloths and all these things. At the same time we have seen a system where you may have a car that is 2-3 years old, you have bought it for approx. 130,000 to 140,000 kroner, you make a tiny dent in it, it can actually still drive away, and then you throw it out. It is crazy what has been of environmental impact by producing the car, you haven't run it very much, and then you throw it out. That is why we also have the element of saying that, of course, some of these relatively new cars do not have to be discarded. They will, of course, be driving again, and it will be a good thing for the environment, but it will certainly also be a good thing for the users of these cars. So that is at least one of the things that fills us. On the other hand, I have a question: will you still have such a very, very large envy tax on car taxes? I would like to say there that we have a great deal of focus on getting better cars. The only thing that needs to be borne in mind is that if the environment really means something to you, it is not the cheapest cars that are the best. Actually, it's the poorest. In fact, it is the middle-class cars and the slightly more expensive cars that are the best. Because that's where you can afford to use the latest technology. So it'll be cars with that model. A medium-sized medium-sized, i.e. a large family car, you would call it, of course, will also fall within that. But it is also the best thing for the environment. That's where you get the most security.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114156	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114158	Thank you. I do not think it was quite clear to me where DF wants to go in relation to the first question, that is, what objective should be in the area of climate change. Because the climate does not care where the pollution, where the CO2 one comes from, but it is the quantities of what is important, and therefore one could also choose to say that we should have a system where we also keep an eye on how much the overall environmental and climate impact of the system we have now is. In addition, the amount of cars on the Danish roads also means something in relation to congestion, pollution and what it is like to live in cities etc. So I would just like to ask again whether the rapporteur can be a little clearer in relation to the overall picture and where to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114248	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114250	I can answer that quite clearly. It is certainly not part of our calculations that you have to buy CO2 It would be a very bureaucratic system to put down against car owners. So we don't want that. But what we want is for car owners to have more environmentally friendly cars, and then, of course, when you look at the climate and the environmental impact, we want a car that has been produced not to get out of the system very quickly. 'Cause then you're supposed to use that capital. In other words, the environmental capital that has been put into a car must of course be exploited to the maximum, so that we do not just scrap a car and buy a new car again, even if it is few injuries that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114327	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114331	Thank you, President. As a Social Democrat, I am very concerned about how and how we finance public welfare, and I could also hear from the rapporteur that he was very concerned about the Danish People's Party, which is why I do not believe that the Danish People's Party has such a special fund with some special money that can be used for specific purposes. So if you give reliefs, which the government has proposed and which the Danish People's Party supports, what is the state's outlook for growth? The Danish People's Party has already mentioned that it should be 0.8%. In relation to the challenges which the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht said that there will be more elderly people and that there will also be a need for the treatment of cancer and many other things. So there's enough to spend the money on. Therefore, I would like to hear what is the Danish People's Party's bid for a percentage in order to ensure public welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114425	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114427	Small, moderate public growth is needed and our target is 0.8%. But what is also important to us is what the money is being spent on. Because that is a priority, that is right. When Bjarne Laustsen's party was in government, we should just remember that, we had a public growth that was well above 1%, but it was not because there were more sosu assistants, and it was not because there were more nurses. But it was because we brought in 25,000 refugees/immigrants, and it cost an incredible amount of money, and it did so that we had very high public growth. So for the Danish People's Party it is not important to just spend the money, for we are important what they are spent on. But to the question: yes, we certainly have a goal that there should be a small, moderate growth in public consumption, but in the right places.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114508	I'm glad to hear it. But we have seen before, when you sit in a debate during a late night hour, that the Danish People's Party then says yes to something they have said no to in the past, and I am really sorry about that. For there is the very thing about the fact that there are so many proposals for unfinanced tax cuts, etc. that are intended for the poorest people to pay, and here we have a great many core voters, both from the Social Democratic Party and from the Danish People's Party, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been drawn up by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It is just quite evident that this is the way it is, and that is why I would naturally like to have the guarantee from the Danish People's Party that they do not give up in relation to the 0.8%. For my sake, the Danish People's Party is allowed to influence and set limits as to where it is intended to ensure growth. However, it is important that there is an economy for the tasks to be carried out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114604	Yes, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114606	First of all, although we are not part of the government, I would like to say that this is the wrong speech paper, sir. Bjarne Laustsen's got it. Because it is not, in fact, unfunded tax cuts that the government has put forward. We just don't agree that money is being spent there. But that is a priority that the government has had. We do not agree with that priority, but they have spent the money on it. That's the way it is. It's just to make it clear. We want to use them somewhere else, and so I have the answer to Mr. Bjarne Laustsen's question. Does the Danish People's Party wish to shift some of the money spent by the government on tax relief to welfare? Yes, we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114632	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114637	Thank you. I would like to sign for what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said about overbid policy, namely that it was in high season right now and that there were no limits to what could be promised in here. I was a little concerned about this myself in the context of my debate with the Social Democratic Financial Rapporteur. The Social Democratic Party said earlier this year that there was a need for 1,000 extra employees in the SKAT. Now the government is coming up with a proposal in which there are also more employees for SKAT, and the Social Democracy is still proposing away 1,000 extra employees. I think that is a good example of some of what Mr. René Christensen mentioned it. Therefore, I would also like to ask whether it is not also important that we stand by the things we have agreed. I am thinking here of the agreement on the economy of the regions, which was made before the summer holidays, and which has been approved and voted home through the Parliamentary Finance Committee, in relation to the discussion on this 2-percent requirement. For there I think it has been a little unclear and difficult to understand exactly what the Danish People's Party means. The agreement on a 2-percent requirement has been supported, and then it has been said that yes, you would like to look at something more appropriate as a steering mechanism. We have an agreement to work on that. Then I just have to understand: Does the Danish People's Party believe that within the agreement that has been made with the regions and without having a new steering tool, you can still run from the agreement that contains productivity growth requirements of 2%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114803	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114805	This is what I am trying to say, too, a little bit of education. I think it was then that the whole Parliament, and at least the Social Democratic Party, has, in my opinion, approved the system of agreements where the regions come in and make an agreement. That is where we have no mandate; we now have a mandate. What I think is the difference between it, that is, compared to the fact that you can only change it to 2019, is that the regions have been out saying: Although an agreement has been reached, we can actually live with having the new budgets implemented at a later stage in 2018 • if the Finance Act succeeds in getting the 2-percent requirement taken out already in 2018 • than we would otherwise have got. It then opens up a new political opportunity to come up with the demand that has been made from out there and with which the government also agrees, namely that it will work to get it out of the way in 2019 too. However, if we can get it out of the budget negotiations together in 2018, even with the agreement of the regions that they will have their budgets later, then I think it should at least be tested by. We very much hope that this can be done and we hope that the government will be willing to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114904	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114907	In the past, Mr. René Christensen said that if we had to get rid of the 2-percent requirement, there would have to be a new steering tool instead. And it's just not clear yet. So is it just that I am saying: do we not create an unsustainable situation in that we have made an agreement, that we have broadly agreed that we should look at a better steering instrument that we can use forward-looking? Is it not a wrong place to give priority to saying that what has been agreed differs from what has been agreed, rather than using the financial law negotiations to look at some other health initiatives, which have also been set aside in the government's proposals? Instead, we could say: here are some targeted solutions to challenges in places we need to improve and then prioritise and put in where we think the challenges are greatest, instead of being locked in such a funding technical discussion as we have said we are going to look at forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114954	I ask you to keep to your speaking time! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907114957	Yes, but I would like to come back to look at what has happened in the SKAT. It is a huge company, and I think what to say is that the morality of the SKAT is not bad, but it is indeed worn out. I think that many tax workers are so sad when they are out for lunch elsewhere and are asked: What are you doing? Then they answer: I work in the SKAT. Well, you're not doing your job. It's hard. We must be careful not to get the same thing done in health care. So we're wearing out these thousands of employees, because unfortunately this 2-percent requirement is still there. As I said before, it has had its effect; it should have been changed years ago. Now the regions are opening up to the fact that they can actually live with the fact that in 2018 they may be doing so even if they have implemented the budgets later. I think we are doing the regions a huge favour if we get this away in 2018, also so that we can get optimism back. President Yes, please! ) It is really a pity to have such an organization where optimism is not present.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115043	Then it is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party, and Mrs Stine Brix afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115051	Thank you. I would like to sign for the very good cooperation that we have between the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party, about the security in Denmark, to ensure that there are police officers enough, both to solve the major conflicts, gang conflicts, the terrorist challenge, but also the pressure we have put in relation to there also being officers locally in all parts of Denmark. For police are also welfare; it is also welfare when you see a patrol car in the local area. I think it is clear to everyone that it costs money when you want to hire more police officers and others in the field of criminal justice and justice. That is why I would like to follow up on that, Mr President. Bjarne Laustsen asked about the size of the public sector. I would like to confirm that the Danish People's Party is still holding on to a growth in public consumption of 0.8%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115150	We do. And I also fully agree with the rapporteur that, if anything, the police are core welfare. Of course it is to feel safe, to be able to call the police if you have had a break-in, and then there comes a cop, that hopefully in the very near future you should not be nervous about going on the street and about getting shot around, to the very highest degree welfare. That is right, and that is also why we are saying that it is difficult to give tax relief on the caliber that the government has proposed. It is not because we want the Danes to pay as much tax as possible; we just have somewhere else that we would like to prioritise first because we are facing some challenges, including, of course, the police force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115226	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115229	Will the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party then give his hand here today that no tax cuts will be discussed at all for the richest until we have solved the problems we have with security in Denmark before we have ensured that the police force is expanded and the other legal chain follows?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115248	Well, that's the thing about the richest. I have also heard some of the rapporteur's colleagues in relation to the ceiling on the employment allowance, which is 331,000 today, and that if you move it, it is the richest. I just want to say that if you make 331,000 kroner. A year, you are a regular employee, and that is what we are talking about, in the public sector and elsewhere. There we would like to look at how we can also reward them for the huge work they are doing, also in relation to the welfare that needs to be done. We are talking about that with increased welfare, as if it's something you just pull in a vending machine, but it's real people you have to hire and have to work out in the welfare society, and we want to look at that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115321	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Stine Brix and then Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115327	Thank you. It is well known in the Danish public that our Finance Minister is an active gymnast, but I was actually surprised that the Danish People's Party's Financial Rapporteur, René Christensen, was as good at kolbøtter and flikfllak as we saw last week. And I'm thinking about the two stories that were in Everything. You could read on 29 August: "DF" in turn: "I don't know if it's a gymnastics exercise, but it may well be • "Will remove savings requirements in hospitals already in 2018". Then it took 3 days, then Altinget wrote a new story: "DF on retreat: Savings requirements for hospitals can continue in 2018·. Therefore, my question is: where do we really have the Danish People's Party when it comes to this productivity requirement in hospitals that we have talked about so much? Does the Danish People's Party stick to the announcement that came on 29 August, or should I listen to what the Danish People's Party said on 1 September, namely that it is not possible anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115429	In other words, we recognize the system of agreements, as the parties in the Folketing do. We also recognise when agreement or other is reached. Then we do not go in and say: well, it may well be an agreement, but now we just change it. We recognize it. What is happening is that the regions go in and say: the agreement that we have reached is not being respected. They offer this: the agreement does not have to be respected and we can have our budgets later. In other words, when one party to the agreement says that one can live with the agreement being broken, then we have to go to the other party. It's the government... and see if we can push them into going in with us and with the regions and saying: How can we do this here also in 2018? So it's just to say that we also have to recognise this system. We must therefore recognise that it is real people who are out there in health care. It is their place of work and, of course, they need to know what they have to work with. I think it is very positive that the regions have said that this can happen in 2018, even though an agreement has been reached. You can get your budgets later. I certainly hope, and I also believe that it will be possible to reach an agreement with the other party, so the government will be able to remove the 2-percent requirement in 2018. That is clearly our objective, and that is the mandate we are taking with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115536	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115540	I am glad to hear that, and I can guarantee that we on the Enhedslisten will follow it very closely. And, of course, we are also ready, together with other parties in the Folketing, if it is that the government should prove too difficult to work with. In any case, I would like to warn against listening to what came from the Left. Torsten Schack Pedersen just before, namely that there should be a lot of technical problems. I completely disagree with that. Nobody's over or beside the Folketing in this context. I also think it is worthwhile to bear in mind that the regions in the agreement that was concluded actually explicitly stated that they noted that there was a majority in the Folketing and a wish from the government, but that it was not their wish. The regions have been perfectly clear that they want to get rid of this productivity requirement as quickly as possible, so at least they are not the ones who stand in the way of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115630	No, it certainly isn't. But if you say that there is no problem with just abolishing this, that it is just so easy in the regions, then I would say again: it is not easy at all. It is not at all easy to simply abolish something that is, in relation to what it is that you have to measure the regions on. I do not think the regions are interested in just getting some money and then just being able to do something, that there is nothing you measure. Of course you have to look at what is happening in such an organization, and what we are doing now is that we are simply measuring the wrong thing. I mean, the 2-percent requirement just doesn't work. You measure, among other things. on how many consultations there are, and that is to say, as I usually say a little bit with a smile on your lips, but it is actually true that if you come to Nykøbing F. Hospital with a grounded nail, you can also go to Slagelse Hospital and a trip to Næstved Hospital and then back to Nykøbing F. Hospital. Then there have been three consultations, and then things have gone very well, because productivity has increased. The system we have today is a deep good night, which is why we need a new one and rather in 2018 than in 2019.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115717	Then it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil and then Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115722	Thank you. I believe that we are faced with some rather fundamental choices in this autumn, and the Danish People's Party has, as we know, understood the crucial mandates in the sense that the Danish People's Party can make a choice, either choosing to go down the road, that a great deal of the money to be spent in the autumn is spent on tax reductions, or you can choose to say that we should spend this money primarily on welfare. In the past, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have managed to avoid some of these thistles together. The government had a desire to raise the retirement age, and that is a great pleasure not least for the people who would have been affected. That is why I think the big question in the autumn will be whether the Danish People's Party intends to use its mandates in such a way that we can actually spend the money on welfare. For the bottom line is that either you can make a choice that the money is spent on the range of different tax reductions that the government is setting up, or you can choose to take the money and spend it on what we actually need in our society, that is, the upgrading of employees, better care for the elderly than what we have today, and lots of other things in the welfare field, which have suffered from the fact that there has been an economic crisis, and therefore we need to sort it out to a level where we can be familiar with it. What is the Danish People's Party's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115840	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115842	It is clear that you must always ask the questions where you know the answer ■ because the government came up with a paper, and we do not agree with that. We have said this very clearly from day one when we saw it. We think the government has given far too much priority to tax relief. And why do we think it's too much? That is because the bag is simply not big enough. We have some other wishes. We want to move much more of what the government has proposed to tax cuts into the welfare sector. That is the way we want to prioritise. And that is because we face the challenge that people live longer, but there are opportunities in it too. It's gonna be such a fast thing that it's not so good. Well, it's really good that we live longer. It's really good that we can have a good life too, even if we fail a little bit. It costs so little more for welfare, and we want to help pay for it. And when there is only one bag of money, we must take those on which the government has written tax cuts and write on welfare. It's actually just because the positive part of it happens that we live longer, and we want to finance it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115933	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907115935	I think this is an incredibly positive report from the Danish People's Party, not least because a very large part of the money is coming, because we went in in time and adjusted how much money should be when the big older years went from. I heard the rapporteur say earlier in relation to the 5.25 billion. DKr. to be taken from the transfers. It's so ten times the cash benefits ceiling; it's a huge amount of money that the Danish People's Party wasn't prepared for, and I'm pleased about that. However, the question is whether we will ultimately accept that there are reliefs and, incidentally, mainly at the top. I recognise that there are also some further down that gets something out of it, but the amounts are extremely skewed. So the question is: In the end, when it comes to cutting what part of the bag will the Danish People's Party accept is over on the tax relief part, which the rapporteur's chairman himself has called top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120027	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120029	But the challenge, if you just have to take one element in the tax proposal, is that among other things. is the advance of some agreements from 2012, i.e. some agreements that we are not part of at all, and why on earth should we finance it? It is purely top tax relief that lies there from the tax agreement in 2012. Among other things, there are: We also want the entire ceiling on the employment allowance to be removed, and we have made it very clear that we want a ceiling on the employment allowance to be set. I mean, if there's money left for tax cuts, it's gotta be at the bottom. In fact, it also supports the rhetoric used by all three government parties in the run-up to the elections: it must pay better to work. Well, then you have to lighten the treasure at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120106	Thank you. The next point for a brief comment is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party, and Mr. Pelle Dragsted after. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120115	Thank you. I think I heard the rapporteur say something like this: stop talking down the social and health workers. On behalf of the SF, I would very much like to support that. On the other hand, I hope that it was not an expression of the fact that the Danish People's Party minimizes some of the serious issues in the care of the elderly. Last Monday I attended a public meeting at Ikast. It was an ordinary citizen who had planned a meeting in which he invited people to discuss the care of the elderly. He was also a relative of a citizen of a nursing home. At the meeting there was a great deal of staff, and many relatives of old people who live in nursing homes today participated. They had one great appeal: we have to rectify an elderly care which is becoming worse and worse. I also heard the rapporteur say that it was necessary to correct demographic trends. It costs something in the region of 1 billion, twice what the government has set aside for welfare. Will the Danish People's Party support that we get the demographic development of care for the elderly right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120221	I can say that we have already provided one billion by previous financial law, because there we got a dignity billion, which went specifically to the area of the elderly, that is, tied to that area, to the municipalities. It is because we are very aware that when we grow older, there is a greater demand, and then it also requires more funds. So the government has clearly come up with that. That is certainly positive. After all, it is not because there is going to be such a picture of now that there are some who recognise that we are getting older, and then there are some who do not recognise that there will be more older people. It's not like that. But there is no doubt that there is a need for a boost also financially, because there is a need for more warm hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120259	You can't call that exactly. 1 billion kr. It would cost about just to compensate for demographic developments. And in fact, in the same way as the 2-percent requirement, it would cost 1.4 billion. kr. to compensate for it. Is the Danish People's Party ready to dedicate that money?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120315	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120317	Yes, we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120327	At least it was short. Then it may be that we reach the last rapporteurs. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120330	So maybe I can get a little longer? I understand that the Danish People's Party will not accept these very large tax cuts at the top, and that is a good thing. We hope that this will be maintained. If we now imagine that a much smaller tax reform will be carried out, which will then benefit some of the people who have the lowest wage incomes, then my question is: can the Danish People's Party contribute to a tax reform that completely ignores 1 million Danish folk pensioners and completely bypasses early retirementists? These are two groups which, in one case, are outside the labour market because they cannot work and, in the other case, are outside the labour market because they have worked their whole lives and helped create the wealth that makes there any room for manoeuvre. If we look back on the tax cuts that have been implemented in recent decades, they have been largely ignored every time. So my question is: Can the Danish People's Party accept that this happens again?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120435	Yes, they are passed over, and then they are also drawn in connection with the bet pool, so it kind of hits through twice. No, we also want something to happen for that group, and there are other tools for that than just a tax. For example, you could look at the license; it is something that everyone has to pay today. As long as you own a radio, you have to pay a license. Everyone would benefit from this, regardless of whether they are on a transfer income or are in employment. One could also imagine looking at the elderly cheque, which is targeted at pensioners. And there is the good thing about the elderly cheque that it is targeted at the pensioners who have the least. So there are certainly opportunities to accommodate that group too, without having to do so in the tax system. So you can do it. We'd like that if that's what you wanted to hear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120513	Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120521	So I understand what the rapporteur says, so that a large economic plan is not being drawn up this autumn and implemented these tax reforms, which mean that low-paid people receive a tax relief. I think that is a good thing if it is financed in the right way without at the same time ensuring that some of the groups who have been cheated every time, regardless of government, are also taken into account, so that they follow the general development of prosperity and can also benefit from the fact that our society is getting richer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120557	Yes, and I would like to sign up to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. This is actually a rather interesting debate, because if you look back at just the last eight years, the tax cuts that have been granted have been tax reductions and top tax reductions. Then one can say that one has been ignored if one has been on transfer income, but indeed one is if one has been in employment in a low-wage job. Therefore, the answer to the question is that it does not have to be the tax system that gives you a greater amount of available resources or that your purchasing power improves when you are on transfer income. Other tools can also be used. But now we have to see how big the bag is in this department called reliefs. We hope, and I would like to say this, that there will be something left so that the Danes can have a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120637	I have to say that we lack very few rapporteurs. I would really like to bring everyone with me, even though we may be a little out of time. But that also means that the last ones are going to exceed, but we're doing our best to get everyone in. We shall do so, President). Okay, then it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120652	Thank you. Thank you for a good rapporteur's speech. I am glad that the Danish People's Party attaches so much importance to also being told that we have some very good employees in our care for the elderly. What the rapporteur also said was that in the years to come there will be fewer and fewer colleagues in the workplace in the area of care for the elderly and care for the elderly. My colleague Mrs Trine Bramsen asked about the 0.8% growth situation. If you stick to what the government is up to, i.e. the 0.3% growth rate, then it is precisely the case that there will be fewer employees in, among others. care for the elderly and elsewhere in the public sector. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: can we say precisely that we are sticking to the demand for the 0.8%? in public growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120800	I'll start by saying yes. It is important for us that we can, of course, have the welfare society that we know today. But I would also like to say that everything is all of a sudden about health and about the elderly, and that is also the two large lumps. But you also have to sign for the presentation that has come from the government. There are also 500 million set aside. kr. off to the school area. We must remember that when we get into a boom, more children are born, and in a few years they are going to school. They start by going to day care. So welfare is a lot of things. We also have to be careful that we don't think that if we just solve it in the health service and we've got this 2-percent requirement removed, then we've solved all the tasks. We certainly haven't. There are lots of tasks out there where we are under pressure. We must welcome the fact that we live longer, but we must also welcome the fact that more children are coming and that they must have a good school. So yes, there is a need for a small moderate lift. And we have to remember that we are discussing the last 0.2-0.3%. That is the discussion we have. It will be such a little fluffy what we are discussing, but of course there must be a boost in public consumption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120855	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120857	Of course, figures are a lot, but I would like the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to say that it is the party's policy to have a growth in public consumption of 0.8%. (i) tax relief is not included in the consumption tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120920	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120921	I can confirm that this is the policy of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120925	Then we take the very last rapporteur, and that is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907120930	Thank you, and thank you for the debate and the rapporteur's speech. I was actually going to ask you some of the same thing as the previous rapporteur, so I just need to confirm the last thing I heard. I saw, as probably many other Danes did, at least many others here in Parliament, the rapporteur in the Deadline on 25 August. Since then, there has also been a debate with the governing parties on what welfare really is and it is a linguistic discussion, because welfare can also be tax relief. After all, the rapporteur has confirmed that the Danish People's Party is going for the Danish People's Party and it is the Danish People's Party's policy to have a welfare boost of 0.8%. in public consumption. But can the rapporteur not specify that? In other words, can tax relief live in the 0.8%, or how does the rapporteur view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907121015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907121015-2	No, we don't think so. But I would like to say, and I would like to make this very clear: we are not a party that believes that tax relief for those who go to work every day and have the lowest wages is only of evil. We also think that is positive. We also think it is positive that a great many of those who have the low wages are actually employed in this system that we are talking about to grow. In other words, they are employed in the hospitals, they are employed in the municipalities, they are employed in the state. It is just to say about the fact that it is evil if tax relief is given to those who earn the least: we do not think it is. In fact, we think it is good, even in terms of being able to provide skilled labour in the public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907121055	Here you go, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907121056	Well, the Social Democrats share that view completely. We do not believe that all types of tax reduction are evil. We are, in fact, also in favour of the tax reform that was carried out in 2012 and that is also what was done in 2012 and that is at least trying to hit employees with some of the lowest wages. However, the interesting question was here about tax relief and, as I understood the rapporteur, the possible use of money for tax relief is not envisaged in the calculation of an increase in public consumption by 0.8%. Isn't that quite correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907121131	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907121131-2	That's right. But we are certainly counting on the police and the defense. Well, that is also what we think is a core achievement that a society must provide so that we can feel safe. So we are counting on that when we talk about what kind of consumption there is in the public sector. So again just to make it quite clear: For the Danish People's Party it is not important to just add money. For the Danish People's Party, it is also important what they are spent on. That is why priority must also be given, and that is what we are doing in relation to the financial law that we are about to enter into negotiations on now. And there are among others. the elderly, and there are, among others, the elderly. In fact, as I said before, there are other areas too, including the primary school area, the day-care area and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907121206	Thank you. And that was the end of the debate. We'll continue the meeting at 8:00 a.m. 1 p.m., and then it's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left, who is the first to speak.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907130032	The sitting is resumed. The next rapporteur for paragraph 4 is Mr Seligman. Jacob Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907130051	Thank you. It's going well in Denmark. We have high employment, we have low unemployment, and this gives us some opportunities to ensure the future of our country, so that it is not only for our generation but also for future generations that we have a good society, a safe society with space for initiative and activity and a social safety net for those who need community help. In general terms, it can be said that, as things stand at present, there are two ways in Danish politics: either to let those who work, keep a little more for themselves, or to give a little more money to those who do not work. The balance can, of course, always be discussed at the negotiating table, but I expect those who want to do something for the workers to see themselves in a shoulder flap to give a gain to those who are actually working and keeping society going. If I had to choose between giving an economic handout for example to the single mother she could be called Annette, she could also be called something else • who is at the cashier in Netto or in Brugsen, or to an immigrant family who has come to Denmark and where both spouses are on cash benefits, then I choose to support Bettina or Annette, or whatever else they are called, the working people in Denmark. It is, after all, a choice which one can say is between a relief for the low-paid who have contributed to society for a number of years, or increasing cash assistance for the immigrant family, removing the integration benefit and the ceiling on cash benefits. The two options are also open. Things are also connected. If you make a lower tax, it will help to give more hands, more activity. We are also committed to supporting a stock culture that can help finance small and medium-sized enterprises. It can bring more innovation, it can again provide more efficiency, it can again generate more revenue in the longer term. Hands are needed if our recovery is to have both a little higher flight altitude and a little longer flight length. The biggest challenge at the moment is that we lack hands. There are bottlenecks in the labour market and lowering taxes rather than increasing already large public spending is in itself helping to reduce the risk of bottlenecks taking over and stifling the recovery. The tax cuts that the government is proposing are not for the few. It is for 21⁄2 million Danes who can benefit from the project. At the same time, even after the implementation of the proposal, it has continued to be the broadest shoulders which, of course, have to bear the heaviest burdens. Today it is the case that if one, let's say a director with a salary of 1 million. kr. pay seven times as much as the cashier with a salary of DKK 215,000, the director, after a reform, will still pay seven times as much as the cashier. It is also important to stress that there is not a single penny from the common welfare to what we call individual welfare, that is to say to the tax cuts that we are proposing. On the contrary, in 2018 more money will also be allocated to the core welfare, including with the agreements made with the municipalities and regions and directly on the Finance Act. This is, of course, contrary to the previous government, where money is actually being removed from municipalities and regions to finance, among other things. relief in top tax and corporate tax. Just to mention it, before there are some who swing too high up in the tree. Some have asked how we can afford tax cuts when, at the same time, there are cancer patients who do not receive the right treatment on time. I will insist on seeing Denmark in a context. In order for us to have good cancer treatment, there must also be some who earn the money for it first. Someone's gotta be working. Investing in Danish jobs must be worthwhile. Innovative companies must have capital in order to strengthen the opportunities and developments that need to be created, for example to secure the pharmaceutical equipment of the future. Doctors must be able to stay in Denmark and want to stay in Denmark rather than go abroad, where it is said to be more attractive in some cases. It is going well in Denmark, and it is among other things. thanks to various reforms made by successive governments. I believe that it was the former Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt who, according to her, had gone through the process of reform, and both top tax reliefs and reliefs were made from corporation tax and cuts of cash aid, while the Social Democrats sat at the end of the table. But like the Social Democrats, or to be perfectly correct, SF's, sir. Jesper Petersen, as he was at the time, in Jyllands-Posten 2012 said in January: The inequality will hardly diminish with the tax reform. It is possible that this will lead to an increase in economic inequality, but I will not regard it as a defeat if it happens in order for hard-working, low-paid Danes to get more in the payroll. I very much agree with Mr. Jesper Petersen anno 2012. For me, this is not about the third decimal point on a Gini coefficient or percentages on different arithmetic examples or a discussion of various assumptions or all sorts of other spin talk. It is quite simply a matter of giving a greater gain to people who work. It is about ensuring the safety of the Danes by providing the police and the defence with better tools. It is about giving priority to core welfare areas such as health and the elderly both today and tomorrow, but also in 5 and 10 years' time. It is about reducing our deficits and balancing revenue and expenditure as a robust foundation for the future welfare society. It is about being able to trust our tax administration, not least when we pay one of the world's highest taxes, even after our reform may have been completed. It is about continuing to be one of the world's most equal countries far ahead of Sweden and Germany for example. It is a question of continuing to be internationally committed and, among other things, of continuing to do so. provides the world's best and most effective foreign aid, not least in the neighbourhood, for conflicts around the world. The government's draft Finance Bill is, by way of comparison, the best financial law proposal seen this year and, as far as I know, that is the only one. I have noted that a few pages have happened to come this morning, but I see this as more of a headline than a well-worked draft of the Finance Act. But I look forward to the negotiations with those who want to participate. Whoever has the ability also has the duty, and in my opinion in particular the duty to recognise and reward Bettina, Annette and all the other Danes who are on the labour market, and to thank them for the efforts they are making for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907130734	Thank you to the rapporteur. We now turn to the questioners, and the first questioner is Mr. Morten Bødskov from Social Democracy. It's a really good idea if you can find a microphone so we can all hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907130756	Thank you for that, President. In 2006, a broad majority of the Folketing concluded a historic welfare agreement. We did so because we wanted to ensure the future of the welfare society. We said to those who were retiring at the time: we need you to stay a little longer on the labour market. At the same time, we said to them: we do so in order to ensure the future of the welfare society. And in the agreement we made, we all agreed that then we would also have future-proof funding for the future welfare society. The area of the elderly and hospital was mentioned as two specific areas. The draft budget which the government has now put forward contains an economic policy which means that, if it is adopted, fundamental welfare will be reduced. Does the rapporteur think that the draft budget put forward here complies with the promises that we gave each other back in 2006 that we would ask the Danes to stay a little longer on the labour market in order to ensure that there was funding for future welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907130913	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907130914	It would be surprising if I answered much more than I do and I am absolutely convinced that it is true. Of course, we need to be able to secure the future of our welfare societies, including: with the reform that we are united in, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done and for the work he has done. I myself mentioned the 2012 tax reform as an example, where you also went in and took a definite, you could say redistribution contribution... that's almost what you could call it... where you went in and cut down on cash aid... in return. on top tax and corporation tax. Of course, there must be, and that is also why the draft Finance Act is calling for you to have the promise made in various areas, including core welfare, but where, at the same time as the other hand, there is also the possibility that we can ensure the future of our society by creating space for more people to come into work, that there is also money for individual welfare, that is, for Annette or Bettina, or what they are called, which gets a little more money between their hands. So, yes, it is absolutely part of the welfare agreement that we are voicing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131018	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131020	The draft budget put forward by the government here has what is called real growth in public consumption, if one draws among other things. It is a question of defence and police action, that is to say, if we look at what could be going on to direct welfare, at 0.3 per cent. The Ministry of Finance and others who produce calculations say that if you just have to live roughly as you have the welfare we have today, and a little more perhaps, so that we can pay rising medicine prices and other things, then we have to go up to 0.6-0.7 pieces. After all, the rapporteur is now standing as the leading candidate for the Left in the Region of Zealand for the Regional Council. Will the rapporteur in his election campaign really stand up and say that if the draft budget which has been tabled here is adopted, it does not in any way mean any deterioration in health?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131112	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131113	Well, I think it's something weird to talk about such direct welfare... what's so indirect welfare? To me, this country is linked to all the things we do on our Finance Act. It is, of course, about the health services we can offer, indeed it is also about the security that we can help create for our families and for our loved ones and for our colleagues and everyone else in this country, including ensuring that the police and defence have some means and opportunities. In relation to the point of saying that we are now isolating police and defence, because it is not such real welfare, or for that matter that Annette or Bettina at the checkout in Køge, or where it was in the example of before, can be allowed to have an extra holiday or take a trip in Tivoli for the extra $5,000 she may be allowed to keep from her work income, I would say that in our optics it is also well-being, Mr. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131200	Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131203	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm gonna change the subject a little bit. There is a lot of talk about taxes, welfare and all these things, but one thing that also fills something is education. And when one reads a little in the press, I cannot quite figure out where the Left is with regard to vocational schools. At any rate, there have been slightly different statements. It is, of course, the case that productivity requirements of 2% have been laid down. down to the vocational schools. At the same time, it has to be recognised that the vocational school reform that has been made, which we support in this way, has also led to the 02+02 requirement that vocational schools are in a situation where their potential for pupils is significantly reduced. Therefore, there are fewer customers in the store, while at the same time you also have to meet a 2-percent requirement. Then my question to the rapporteur is actually simply: how does the rapporteur view the fact that, in connection with this financial law, as we did last year, we are going to solve the challenge facing vocational schools? We are talking about 150 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131301	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131302	But it is true, as Mr. René Christensen refers to the fact that vocational schools have been better off than other educational institutions in the later financial laws; they have done so, among other things. Because, as we have also shared, we have been able to add the 150 million. kr. But they are so, you might say, primarily went to update the equipment and the tools you use, and it is not equipment or tools that then disappear in 2018; the better equipment and the quality of it are still gone. In addition, it can be said that the money also goes with it, so that, as we hope, more people will also enter vocational schools in the coming years, money will also follow. We have been able to see that under the previous government it is not because I want to point the finger, but it was by chance under the previous government that the number seeking vocational schools fell. For various reasons, we had that slowed down as one thing. In addition, the tripartite agreement has also made a good agreement that 8 000 to 10.000 additional internships will be provided up to 2025, which will also help to support an activity in vocational schools. And with activity also comes the means, so I'm quite comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131406	Well, thank you for the answer. I just have to understand it quite correctly: does that mean that the rapporteur does not think that this is a challenge when you see a fall in the influx of pupils, that is to say that the flow of education will be reduced, because there are simply fewer young people who choose a vocational school, while at the same time a productivity requirement has been imposed? And then it is quite right that the money that was sent out last year and that Dansk Folkeparti was also part of, among other things. was targeted at the fact that when you go to a vocational school and are in school, you also experience a scenery that looks like a real company, also in relation to the latest appliances etc. But it's not a blank rejection that you can look at how you can possibly help support vocational schools because they're in this vacuum until they get a bigger recruitment basis, that is, more young people who choose a vocational school?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131457	No, I'm not gonna stand here and flatly reject anything. I am, of course, dealing both with what we have done together for vocational schools, the situation in which they have been, what has been done to ensure that more young people enter vocational schools, and also with the fact that, unlike in the past, we have actually set an objective on this, plus the things I mentioned before, that we have secured places of internship in the tripartite negotiations. It should all result in more, in fact, more searching at vocational schools. And with the activities, the funds are also included. But let us at last discuss what opportunities there are, because it is acting as I see it and as I heard Mr. René Christensen, in his speech, said it very well not only about spending as much money as possible. It is also a part of the overall package that deals with the quality and requirements of young people entering the school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131542	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131544	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for being here at all, as apparently the only member of the Left Parliament Group, apart from the Minister. I understand that there has been a reception for a minister at the same time as the debate on Finance Law. I think that is a little too bad, as we cannot have a debate together. But let's go to the question. What I'm asking is, who's gonna pay the bill? Who is it that the money should be taken from when you want to make these reductions of the tax, which I primarily, at least when we look at crowns and ears, benefit those who have the most? We can then see in the game that you will find 51⁄4 billion. kr. in what is referred to as adjustments and adjustments to the transfers, and it is ten times as much as the cash benefits ceiling that hit 40,000 children. And if we multiply it out on the number of pensioners, it's 5,000 kroner that every folk pensionist has to hand in. But the government doesn't want to tell you who's gonna deliver that money. You talk about child pay and profit principles. However, anyone who has the slightest insight into the public economy knows that there is no 5 billion. kr. So my question is actually quite simple: who is to pay? Can the rapporteur guarantee that it will not be the pensioners, students or people affected by sickness and unemployment who will have to pay the bill for these tax rebates?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131710	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131711	At any rate, I can say that we have no plans in our proposal to reduce any benefits. But we have plans, suggestions and thoughts about some things. The rapporteur now mentions, among other things: The children's check. I think it is fair to go into and see if there should be a ceiling on it in relation to how many children you have. I think so. And when I look around the Chamber, I can see that there are others who share the same view, and that is a majority, I think. The question is, where is that cut going to be? Conversely, I can ask Enhedslisten: Does it really matter how many children you have and that you can still get full children's checks all the way through? Is it okay, or could one perhaps also go in there and say: there are probably some who have a greater need than others? It's just one of the elements. We have pointed to some areas in relation to this, and these are the principles of income, participation fees for Danish education and then in this context also a ceiling on how many children you can get children's checks for. However, it is more than you can hear coming from the Enhedslisten, who does not have any funding proposals themselves, but is just talking about more money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131811	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131812	That's bullshit. One cannot find a proposal from the Enhedslisten which is not fully funded. But the rapporteur does not answer. Because I heard about the children's check and the profit principles. But I do know Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen and knows that he also knows about public finances. And I also know that the rapporteur knows very well that 5 billion. kr. So we do not find it on the three lines; not with the things that have been mentioned. So who's gonna pay? These are the big groups you have to put your hands in your pocket if these 5 billion. kr. must be found. It's the students, the folk pensionists and the early retirementists. Or can we today receive a guarantee from the rapporteur of the Left that the groups I have just mentioned will not pay for lower taxes for people with high incomes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131859	At any rate, I can guarantee that we will not be doing a tax reform such as the one that was made under the government, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted's party supported where they went in and cut in cash aid, while at the same time facilitating top tax and corporation tax. We don't mind reliefs in top tax or corporation tax, but it's just not something we do with this play. We don't. So maybe I think it's gonna turn the heavy end down a little when mr. Pelle Dragsted is asking us what we're gonna do. We have pointed to various issues, and it is true that part of it is something that, as has also been said, is something that is called an adjustment of transfer income. And here we give as an example that there are different profit principles, and that is for example. The children's check, in other words, according to how many children you can get it to. So there are the examples of it, and Mr. René Christensen himself said that the principles of profit are one of the things he also sees as something you can look at. So we would like to talk about this with the Danish People's Party during the financial negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131946	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907131948	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. What I would like to ask you is whether what it is suggesting is that the government will drop, namely the continued funding for green national accounts. So I would really like to ask why it is that the government does not think it is important to continue to have it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132010	So, we think that the green transition on which Denmark is the leading nation, we must of course stick to it, and there is also agreement on that. But there are so different means of achieving it. We have taken various steps. The draft budget also provides funds for what we call a green pool so that there can be other proposals that can be put into effect. But here too, of course, it requires that we give priority to the things that are possible and that we think are useful. This is then one of the things that we estimate you can get more money for, by doing it in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132041	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132042	I am surprised, then, that Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left, has been out in favour of this being a very good means, because we know that what we are measuring is worth weighing. But let me continue with another question, because some of it in the government's financial bill, the alternative has in fact also looked at, is what the climate consequences will have for the Finance Act, i.e. how much extra CO2 I would really like to hear and now I am in favour of the financial rapporteur not being a specialist in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132129	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132130	I am therefore quite sure that if Mrs Josephine Fock asks a specific question, I also agree that the Ministry of Finance will certainly be prepared to count on what can be expected and to give the answers to be given. But I just want to maintain that we see these things too. Now Mrs Josephine Fock mentions among other things. the extension of the motorway over West Funen. Well, it's part of creating activity in this society that you don't keep in line the highways and that you can get there, that there is mobility, and it may as well be that it costs something in another account on CO2 It's also my impression that there are different parties, including the Social Democracy, which is of the same opinion; at least I hear that when I listen to local mayors around the country, it may be in Næstved, it may be in Kalundborg, it may be in East Jutland, it may be in many places. Many people want that mobility. And yes, it is clear that more space on the roads will improve, but it will also enable us to move forward more quickly, because we must not keep in line, and it is also a social gain that we can translate in other ways into what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132236	The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132248	Thank you. Perhaps I would just like to ask the rapporteur, in all kindness, to confirm that it is well over 70%. by the new dancers here in Denmark who are not on transfer income. The corresponding figure for old dancers, if I may say so, is 80%. One might get the impression from the rapporteur's speech that all immigrants are on transfer income while the Danes are not. But it wasn't really my business. My errand is a more precise question: we agree that the economy and time are calling for tax cuts. But what the government is putting forward gives a very small effect on the supply of work, compared with how much money you spend. In fact, the agreement we made during our reign, which Lars Løkke Rasmussen called a small fine deal, gave more for a considerably smaller amount than this agreement does. This agreement could be called a big, unfine package, because money is being squandered on registration tax reductions, free mobile phones and other things that are not just as targeted as the more people who can get to grips with the labour market. And then it is financed by borrowing from our children, and it is financed by cutting down on education and everything that will provide us with skilled labour in the slightly longer term. Could the Left not see itself in another package that still eased the tax socially balanced at work, but which was financed in a proper way and in a way so that something serious actually happened with the work supply?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132421	I am actually grateful for the question and am actually glad that Martin Lidegaard has just mentioned the balance which is of course also in tax policy. Because if you only wanted to increase the supply of work and not look at any social profiles or anything else, then I have at least heard economists say "I am sure also seen in the Ministry of Finance's calculation, without me being able to put my finger on what note it is about taking the top tax and starting from that side of. That is what would provide the greatest supply of work. That was certainly also why Martin Lidegaard, together with the Social Democratic Party, made the reform precisely with the aim of facilitating the top tax rate, well financed by cutting cash benefits, but still to increase the supply of work. If that was the only aim, you should have done that. However, in all modesty, we have a more balanced aim in our tax policy. We have talked about the low-paid who sits at the cashier in the farm in Køge or elsewhere, and we think it is reasonable and also fair that they get a bigger gain, that they can simply keep more of their own self-earned money than they do today, and that in doing so we are making the difference between work and non-work slightly larger.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132527	We are very much in favour of the reforms we made, where we also went to get more at the bottom of work. And we also want to have a clearly greater focus at the bottom than at the top, because we consider it more important to get more people into the labour market than those who are already there to work more. But that does not change the fact that, when the money is squandered on registration tax reductions or on tax relief for the largest cars, there is nothing particularly socially balanced in it, and that is certainly not the most effective way to increase labour supply at all if it is a matter of getting people at the bottom to enter the labour market. So try again: Could you imagine a package that was more targeted at what the Danish economy needs and that was not funded by cutting down on education and lending by our children, but by making reforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132617	Well, I don't know what it is, sir. Martin Lidegaard refers to cutting down on the education programmes. So, the entire primary school level, the primary school level, is a municipal matter and, as I mentioned in my introduction, the municipalities will have more room for manoeuvre next year than they had last year, according to the municipal agreement that has been made. So there you can appropriately prioritise it in the municipal election campaign, if you think it is needed exactly in your own municipality. In relation to higher education and research in general, you can see how the funds can be used both more effectively and with a better priority. At least I hear about different types of education, which I find very difficult to see to be particularly suitable for further growth in Danish society. And in this way, there are opportunities, both technologically and in terms of priorities, for greater quality. It's not just about funds, sir. Martin Lidegaard, it is also about the way you use the funds.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132711	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132713	Thank you. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the children's check, which has been cut down for the third child and removed for the fourth child. Will the rapporteur of the Left not tell us a little about the government's plans in this area? Because we also had this discussion last year. There we got some clear figures and, after all, they have not changed in the past year. And the municipalities that we can see will be hardest hit by this are Ringkøbing-Skjern, Herning, Favrskov, Skive, Tønder, Holstebro, Billund, Viborg, Lemvig, and I could go on. There is a perfectly clear picture when you look at the map of Denmark, that it is West Denmark that is being hit, that it is rural areas that are being affected and that people have more children. It may well be that the Left does not like it, but these are the places where people have families with children with three and four children. This means a lot to the family's finances, and then it's an equally frivolous enough answer to say that you can't have so many children. It's really good that babies are born in this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132824	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132825	I never said that last thing, and I am one of those who has three children myself, so I suppose I will get hit somewhere too, I suppose. But I'm sure we can handle that. No, I just hope there isn't anyone in this country, and I don't think there is, but it sounds a little like that in the debate that thinks you get the kids because you can also get a children's check. Of course you don't. It is a contribution in relation to the costs of the children, of course, so that they can run around. On the other hand, I have to ask whether SF has no desire whatsoever that there should be some kind of ceiling for how many children you can get children's cheques for. Well, doesn't it matter if you have five kids or ten kids or something? Is there not somewhere where the SF would say that no, there is probably some synergy there? That is, for example, the case. you don't have to buy a new baby carriage for every child. Maybe there was a little something to pick up there. I don't know, but it may be that Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen could lift a little of the veil.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132915	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907132916	First of all, there are not many families of children in these municipalities, where average income is the same as a member of parliament. Secondly, if you have three or four children, you don't buy a new baby carriage for every child. This is just not fair. It's also these places in the country where a lot of other things have been cut down. These are families that are not at the highest end of the income scale. There's been a lot of research on this. But you try to move the debate to the point that it is probably some who have a foreign-sounding name that has these children. It is 95,000 Danish families who are affected. It is a transfer from the richest East Denmark to West Denmark. How does this relate to the government's desire for a Denmark in balance? It's geographically crooked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133008	Well, I'm not gonna be smart about that, but Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can tell me how exactly the geography is in it. This is a proposal that's geography-blinded with our glasses. It's about what's fair and how we can make things work together. And I did not hear it, but it may not be fair for Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen to give me an answer in her questions; I can then ask myself that later on there should be some ceiling on how many of them should apply. After all, we have heard the examples of families who had, I think, eight, nine, ten children. And I heard that, at least at that time, a huge outrage about in here: it cannot be right that we should finance so much child cheques for such families. That's why it's just that we're trying to set a ceiling somewhere with this proposal. So I would say that it is geographically wrong that I insist on seeing politics again in a context. This is one element, but there are indeed a great many other elements that we have brought forward: the relocation of jobs, the agricultural package, and what it says all that supports the development of the agricultural sector, yes, both in the agricultural sector and also in the rural sector, to which Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen refers. Things must be seen in a context and not just isolated as a silo.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133111	Then it's mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen from Social Democracy, and after him it is Mrs Lea Wermelin. It's like a service message so you can get to the microphone. Here you go, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133122	Thank you. Now Mr. Morten Bødskov mentioned the historical with the welfare settlement earlier, and I could just add to that that one really broke the same kind of promise to the voters, since the then and also present Prime Minister Lars Løkke Rasmussen chose to put the Danes in perspective, that if we gradually phased out and abolished the after-wage, it was also with the aim of financing the welfare of the future. In the New Year's speech, when the Prime Minister is launching that we must now abolish the post-retirement pay, he says that we must have a robust basis for constantly developing our welfare. Would the rapporteur not agree that both the terms for the welfare settlement back in 2006 and, for that matter, for the fact that even in 2011 one chooses gradually to phase out the post-retirement wage, have always been that the Danes have been given the prospect of doing so in order to be able to secure future funding for the welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133226	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133227	But it is under the false premise that less has been put off on this Finance Act less for the common welfare. Because I understand that social democracy has a definition of welfare as that which is common welfare. It is not something about what the individual family can keep for themselves or how it must be able to buy a small car or go on a small vacation or go in Tivoli No, it is not welfare. I also understood Mr. Morten Bødskov, that ensuring security and security in our streets with police and defense also was not such direct welfare, it was something individual, something else. We see society as a whole, and the welfare agreement that was made, including the tax agreements we entered into together under the previous government, is of course part of that, and I have also signed up to changing governments, to ensure that we can also, in the future, have some opportunities and can increase the public budget in the future. As you know, the public budget is being increased, it is not being reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133320	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133321	I fully agree that there is a linguistically such badut leap at the moment in order to try to make welfare something different from what we have, at least for decades, perhaps even for half a century, considered it to be in this country. Peace be to it. However, when we talk about public consumption, where the Ministry of Finance assumes that public consumption, in order to keep up with demographic trends, must increase by 0.7%, and when it is estimated that the next year will increase by 0.5%. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133402	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133403	No, I do not know, because again, as we have said several times, money is not everything. I think it was when mr. Bjarne Corydon sat in the treasury chair that even Mr. Bjarne Corydon had a message that the public sector could be modernised for, I believe it was 12 billion. kr. In fact, I think that was roughly exactly the same as the demographic move at the time. So, of course, you can always see a development. At least new technology is developing. There are always new opportunities, new working methods, new structures. There are many things that are constantly evolving. I don't have the idea that human ability has peaked precisely today. Well, it hasn't today. However, we are providing a moderate boost, while also ensuring a balance between income and expenditure, which is also part of the foundation of a future welfare society. Therefore, these things must also be in balance, so I do not agree with what the premise being put forward says, and I will insist on talking about welfare in a broad sense too, and also the welfare that Annette, sitting at the box in Køge, can get by keeping 5,000 DKK. more to himself and his family.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133510	Then it is Mrs Lea Wermelin, and after her it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133514	Yeah, it's a little remarkable exercise that the Left here is out in. But I would now like to agree with what the rapporteur started by saying, namely that there are two ways in Danish politics in relation to what we want to do. Because it's true that there is. But these are not the two lines outlined by the rapporteur, because there is a difference between whether you spend the money on tax relief or whether you spend it on welfare. That money cannot be spent more than once, and I assume that the rapporteur will, after all, agree with me on that. However, there has been some confusion as to who will get something out of the draft budget proposed by the rapporteur's party. After all, the Prime Minister and the rapporteur are making an incredibly great effort to talk about this cashier or the HK, who was supposed to make a great deal of it. But it has now been calculated afterwards, and I would actually like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the proposal is in line with the Director with an annual income of 1 million. kr. more than an average HK's, which is both in crowns and ears and relative. I think it would be nice to get into place once and for all here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133632	Now I'm just the one who's been referring to mr. Benny Engelbrecht's excellent example with Annette from the box in Brugsen in Køge, but it should not separate us. I can at least confirm that the tax proposal that we have put forward gives more to the low-paid employee, the HK, the cashier or whoever it is than what the Social Democrats are putting forward. It gives more to those who can then keep a little more money for themselves. We're gonna pay $5,000. to the low-paid. Social democracy wants them to have 0 more. Of course, we think this is a fair discussion. On the other hand, we also believe that there is room for it, and that is also fair. It also gives rise to an increase in employment or a supply of labour, even if not as much as Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Martin Lidegaard would have liked to, because then you should have removed the top tax that the then S-government was in the process of doing. But we believe that there is a balance in these things so that it is both fair and socially balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133727	But let us just stick to the question I put to the rapporteur. For the rapporteur can have all sorts of views on the policy of social democracy, and that is quite fair, and there has also been a whole hour when we have been able to ask our rapporteur. But now I am asking the rapporteur of the Left specifically, because the Prime Minister was out to say that the HK is getting the most out of this. And now we have some figures on the table that show that it is simply not true. The director gets more out of it, both in kroner and ear and relative, and that is actually what I am asking the rapporteur. Because it is fair enough that the Left would like to put its back on a tax reform which is socially biased, it is also geographically biased, but I think it would be appropriate to recognise it from the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133808	I think it was sir. Karsten Hønge from SF, who at some point very wisely said • he says many wise things, at least sometimes • that you cannot pay with percentages, but you can pay with crowns and ears, and that's right. That is why it is crucial for the low-paid person that you actually get something more for yourself that you can pay for if you want a vacation, a trip in Tivoli, a small car or whatever it might be, and that's what you get with this tax proposal. I would like to say that part of the tax proposal is precisely that and the rapporteur here ought to be pleased about the advance of the reform that we shared, namely the element of doing something about the top tax. We shall then move forward the implementation of this. It is therefore a social democratic reform which we are now trying to move forward at a higher pace. It should be to the right to sign on from the Social Democratic side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133859	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm from the Enhedslisten, and after her, it's Mr. Eve Flyvholm. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133903	Thank you. I would like to know why the government is continuing with the very large billion cuts in education in this draft budget. I think we have seen in recent years that schools and educational institutions have been closed around, that teachers and teachers have been fired and that the quality of education simply decreases. It'll only get worse if the government continues these cuts. That's almost 15 billion. kr., which in total will disappear from the field of education. This is insanely large amounts of money, and so I would like to hear why the government does not want to invest in education, which is basically of benefit to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907133950	I think that this kind of thing is a discussion about marginals, which, of course, will also quickly become: who will invest the most? Who's gonna drop the most money off? Who's gonna do the most about spending money? We have previously, among other things. freed vocational schools from the re-prioritization contribution. That is then part of the overall public sector, one can say where one can now see that there are also opportunities to do things differently and better. We can also see that in the past there has been a fall and now I just mention the vocational schools as an example in the activity, i.e. fewer pupils. We've had that slowed down. We have also gone in and made demands on those who are going into schools, simply to ensure quality. We have also been in to give 150 million. kr., Mr. René Christensen also before, in relation to updating on machines and tools. Well, it's not just about looking at exactly what's in crowns and ears. It is also about the quality and the framework that you set up for schools. And if it brings more students at e.g. I hope that the three-way agreement on more internships will, of course, bring with it money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134100	Frankly, I think it is crazy to talk about marginals when, year after year, you cut 2%. in every education. This is insanely much money, and I believe that everyone but the government can see that we are facing a huge problem here. Most recently, Danish Business has been out asking the government to stop these cuts, and Danish Industry says that you have to stop the cuts. And in relation to the large innovative companies mentioned by the rapporteur himself in his speech, for example. Novo Nordisk, we can see that they are asking the government to stop these cuts, and so is the trade union movement. All actors in this area say it's mad. I would like to know why the government is going against those recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134146	Of course, these are resources. If it were just peanuts, we wouldn't do it. I fully agree with the author of the Enhedslisten. But if you look at it in relation to the large overall budget, and I do, I would say that from that point of view it is also a question of marginalisation when we talk about 0.3 per cent. or 0,5%. For me, it is not crucial, it is not a race to get most money off, because that race can never win in the bourgeois camp: every time we put a billion of it, there will probably be a wish that it should have been two, and if we had set aside two billion, it should have been three. So we are focused on saying: What quality and what framework can we set up for, among other things. the education sector, so that we can give priority to education and see that we can get more out of the money and also ensure that the educated get into some relevant work afterwards and not out to unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134238	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party, and afterward it may be someone who knows the cashier from Køge, Mr. Jacob Mark of the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134248	Thank you, President. I'd like to come back to report to the cashier. I do not know the reported cashier personally, but I have at least been in a similar position. Because it has filled a lot with both the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the government's publications that one should be found, one must understand, typically HKs, which match some specific assumptions. That's why I have, among other things. Wanted if you could find a HK that matches the specific premises. I haven't been able to find that. HK hasn't been able to find it either. So I'm almost just gonna have to ask sir. Jacob Jensen, who seems to have a very large association: Jacob Jensen any or just a single person in Denmark who meets the precise criteria, i.e. has an annual income of 215,000, is single, is a member of HK, and also has a rent on those approx. 6,300 kr. a month?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134354	I think it is a little too bad if it is to be a discussion of assumptions, because there is no one in the Ministry of Finance, in the government, in the government parties who has put in what the assumptions are, what they are, for example, what figures are underlying what was presented. Nor have I heard anyone question the calculations at all, i.e. that the aforementioned Annette would get $5,000. in tax relief, or that today the Director pays seven times what Annette pays, because that will also be paid by the Director after the implementation of the reform that we have put forward. So we can have a long talk about assumptions and examples and percentages, but as Mr. Karsten Hønge from SF said very sensibly, you pay with crowns and not with percentages, and I will stick to that as a principle. At any rate, I can say so much that, regardless of whether we look at a HK in one situation or another, it will be true that the HK will get more in tax relief and could keep more of its own money than if it were, as Mr. Benny Engelbrecht wishes to apply to the HK. For Mr. Benny Engelbrecht does not want the HK to keep more of his own money. It's a round zero that's on that account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134506	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134507	So in other words, the answer is no. Sir. Jacob Jensen does not know a HK who meets those conditions, and neither do I. As you know, the first partial agreement has just been reached with regard to the draft budget, and it concerns the implementation of the Togfonden DK, an extension of the Togfonden DK. The ruling parties, including the Left, are not part of that. That's why I'd just like to hear Mr. Jacob Jensen's answer, in the Prime Minister's own words, to how long the Left and the Government will stand on one leg and jump and say no, no, no to the Togfonden DK. When is it that you join the fight and help put into practice what a broad majority in the Danish Parliament is behind?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134550	I don't know if it was an invitation to enter the deal or how I should see it. I noted, of course, that an agreement was reached earlier this day with the usual precision and timing, and it is of course the right of a majority to do so. I also note the consequences it may have in relation to the many, many local mayors and others who are crying out that they must now also have made an extra motorway to Næstved, or where it is now, which at least some mayors are running at my door every now and then, or at least in the public debate, have been out to mention. As someone said before, you can only spend the money once, and when the money has been spent in this case on the Train Fund DK ^ they are not there for any other type of infrastructure. So that must be the answer. But I do not know whether this was an invitation, because it requires the conciliation parties to agree, as it were, that there are others who can enter, and if so, I will pass the baton on to the finance minister to know whether the government is of that opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134642	The next one is sir. Jacob Mark of the SF, and after him it's sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134649	Thank you. Compared to the cashier at Brugsen in Køge, I don't know the one used in Køge. I know that there is a Kvickly and a Netto, but then I was thinking that the cashier's example is as realistic as the government's HK example, that is, non-existent. But that is actually not what I wanted to ask, because I would like to ask about the savings in vocational schools. Because I have actually heard a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament that we need more skilled workers. We have made a vocational training reform to ensure that more people are trained in the future. In fact, I also had the feeling that there was a consensus across the parties that there had to be some calm, including economic, in this area, in order, like, to ensure that more people chose that path in the future. In the last two years, when there has been a re-priority contribution in the field of education in general, there has been a pool of quality, which slightly matched the re-priority contribution to vocational training, of 150 million. kr. a year. It will lapse with the new Finance Act. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what has changed from this year and last year to next year, which means that vocational training no longer needs a pool to match the savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134803	As I've answered before, it's also about what you've got out of those funds and the pools of the 150 million. kr. has primarily gone to update equipment, tools and other things, i.e. the content itself, which one could present and use in one's teaching. Without making myself an expert, I think that the equipment that you received a year ago, or in which you might be investing, is not out of date next year or next year again. So, of course, a little has been said in New Danish a spillover effect, that is to say you can use the effort, the investment that has been made, to ensure quality also in the coming years. At least that's my assessment. Unfortunately, there has also been a drop in activity in vocational schools, at least between 2015 and 2016, and that is also what has led to a reduction in activity grants. However, as I have said in the past, I also believe that the measures that have been taken, among other things. In the context of the tripartite agreement, which has been said to want to ensure a place between 8 000 and 10 000 additional internships up to 2025, there is also the quality in which we have made demands on those who enter the schools to ensure that the activity, and hence the funding for vocational schools in the coming years, will go back up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134919	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907134920	It is true that there has been a decrease from 2015 to 2016. But there hasn't been a fall in the new year. After all, the aim is for more people to take vocational training and schools to receive money per year. student, and they do, no matter how many people choose to go that way. But it doesn't have anything to do with that 150-million-dollar saving. After all, it affects the whole area of education. Then it is true that we have invested in equipment, but it was for money that we decided to spend together during the vocational training reform. The quality assurance pool was the only one to match the re-prioritisation contribution that affects the whole area of education. The rapporteur can, for example: visit the vocational school in Holbæk, which says that they can hardly make it together anymore and that they have to make big savings now. So does the rapporteur not fear that this will hit so hard in quality that once again there will be a fall in the number of pupils who choose vocational training in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135009	No, I don't. We are, of course, listening to what is also being said from the vocational schools; otherwise we would also be weird and we are also listening to what is being said politically, both from the SF, from the Danish People's Party and other good forces, who would like the vocational schools to do well, and who also quite rightly want them to do well, because this is an important part of our educational institutions. But I would still like to maintain that for me and for the Left it is not just a question of how much money is put into different sectors. It is also about what you make of structures, what you do of quality assurance, and what you do of requirements of what is going on in schools at all. After all, these are some of the elements of the tripartite agreement we have mentioned a few times that I believe can help to ensure that there will be both more, but that there is also a good quality in what is going on in vocational schools. And with higher activity follows, as Mr. Jacob Mark rightly says, also a higher grant for the students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135101	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen. And after him, sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135110	I would like to ask the rapporteur a little about inequality, because the Left had a former Minister for Social Affairs, Eva Kjer Hansen, who said that inequality created dynamism, and she was so knocked into place that it was not the policy of the Left, by former Prime Minister Anders Fogh Rasmussen. Now the tax minister says that this reform creates inequality and that you do it with your eyes open. What is the Left's attitude to inequality? And how big does it have to be before you're happy in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135135	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135137	But here, too, we need to get the proportions in place. I think that without the rapporteur having to pin me on the fact that, as it is now, we are in third or fourth place on the list of the most equal countries in the world. If this is done, as I remember, we are in a fourth or fifth place far ahead of Sweden and Germany. So that means that if this, which according to the Social Democrats and others is so crooked, so crooked, is implemented as it is, then you will be able to go over to Sweden and look over the Øresund to Denmark, and huge changes would have to be made in order for Sweden to come up with Denmark. I am not hearing this about the huge challenges in Sweden in terms of inequality. Let me just make one such quote by Mr. Jesper Petersen, who has now become a Social Democrat, but in the past SFs were also I mentioned it in my introduction: the inequality will hardly diminish with the tax reform. It is possible that this leads to an increase in economic inequality. But I will not consider it a defeat if it happens to give hard-working, low-paid Danes more in the payroll. ▪ So it was about the reform that S was behind in 2012, and I fully agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135240	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135244	It is good that SFs other than Karsten Hønge can be quoted. But that does not change the fact that inequality is still growing between people who go to work. Can the rapporteur not confirm that, as far as hardworking people are concerned, the inequality between these groups on the labour market between directors and HKs is significantly greater with the reform that the Left is proposing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135305	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135307	But I would just like to point out that for me this is about something other than the third decimal point on a technical Gini coefficient, and I agree with that quote by Mr Gini. Jesper Petersen, I just read earlier. And I can ask the opposite: what was so terrible about the tax reform and the agreement that went in and cut down on cash aid to finance top tax relief when the Social Democrats had the tiller in this country? The Gini coefficient and inequality increased to the same extent as we are talking about here. That was no problem, because, as Mr. Jesper Petersen said it was not a defeat if it gave hard-working, low-paid Danes more in the payroll. Why was it not a problem in 2012 when it is evident today, when you are in opposition, that it is a huge problem? I do not quite understand the logic of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135352	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested, and then it's Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl, who is the last one we get in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135402	I would like to ask whether the Left does not take the climate challenges seriously in the governing parties as a whole, but here I would like to ask the Left: is it actually not a problem and does it really not exist? Has one reached the position where one is almost climate denial? When I ask, it is of course because this financial law, I would almost say historically, sends many more thousands of cars on our roads by reducing registration fees, by reducing tariffs on Storebælt, by making room for more highways, by making room for speed increases, etc. etc. kr. over the years, the savings of 125 million continue. kr. a year on Banedanmark, as if our Danish grid is in order etc. etc. And it must also be seen in the light of the fact that you have made some agreements where you have completely stalled the electric car sales. That is why I ask: do we not take the green transition in the transport sector seriously at all in the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135517	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135518	Yes, we certainly do. And it is not at all to draw any parallels, but we can see the great hurricanes and all that is involved in the United States and the Caribbean at these times. And I think that has something to do with climate change. I'm not an expert at all, but I think it has something to do with it. That is why it is also important for us as a country to be a pioneer in ensuring new technology, new opportunities, new equipment. It's a billion-dollar export that Denmark has in this area a billion-dollar export. We are one of the countries in the world that, when we produce, sets the smallest climate footprint, among other things. Because we have helped to develop some of the equipment, some of the technologies and methods used in different sectors. So yes, we take that absolutely seriously. I am very pleased that we too, relatively broadly in the Danish Parliament, naturally with nuances, in relation to where you lie, have that ambition, also in relation to reducing CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135617	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135619	The country of origin is, of course, drawing in exactly the opposite direction, as we have to admit. When you send thousands of new cars on the streets, you increase CO2 congestion, is just good and well-functioning public traffic. However, it is a fact that the transport sector is the child of pain and that it is the transport sector that is currently making it difficult for Denmark to achieve its own climate targets in this area. So how does it compare with saying that we should be a pioneer country? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135704	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135707	Well, that's connected because, as I have said several times here, I insist on seeing things in a context and not in silos and saying: now we've done something exactly in this area, and now we've done something in this area. Of course, it has its internal context. And I just want to say, when Mr. Henning Hyllested says that good public transport will help to avoid congestion, that I live in a part of Denmark, where there could be good public transport if we got trains that drove a few times an hour, but I live in a place like many others where it is simply not realistic to be able to meet the transport needs of goods transport, human transport, with the public transport. So, of course, there must be the possibility that you can get to and from your work, for example. And when you can see how it is on, for example, West Funen or on E45 or elsewhere, I think it is fair that we also look at it, but that, of course, we also have an agenda to reduce CO2 Yes! ) as we also...
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then the last question in this round is Mrs. Kirsten Brosbøl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135803	It is a good thing that the government wants us to remain in the driver's seat when it comes to the green transition. I think that is very good, and the more times we can agree on it, the better. What could help us to learn a little bit more about the discussion that has just taken place between Mr. Henning Hylllested and Mr. Jacob Jensen, of course, would be if we had a good data base to assess this kind of thing. And that brings me back to the question of green national accounts. All I have to do is fully understand what the Left has been thinking about this. The green national accounts would, of course, enable us to make this kind of assessment of what Mr. Jacob Jensen stands and says he would like, namely the link between various political initiatives, so that we could have some economic models that could take account of what it was when we took an initiative, for example. in the field of transport, then have consequences in relation to our environment. This would make it possible for us to be able to assess the environmental consequences of economic policy and, in fact, vice versa. So what the Left has been thinking about is that this work will now be put in place, and it also means that the work being done on a new economic model in the Ministry of Finance, on the basis of the reform model being developed, among other things. with the University of Copenhagen in the lead, will also be stopped?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135919	Thank you. Then we'll get the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907135921	I'm gonna do one thing that I don't think anyone's gonna do in here, and then I'm gonna answer the last part. The last part in relation to the new model that is taking place in the Ministry of Finance, we in the Committee on Finance have had long and good factual talks about what opportunities there are, and that is also some of the work that the Minister of Finance has taken down and set in motion to see precisely if there is any possibility of making the different calculation models more accurate and bringing in various elements, as long as it of course makes sense to do so. It's not supposed to be something you pull down from the ceiling. Then Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl asks, and that is the first part, about precisely the specific professional consideration of why you do not continue with the environmental accounts, and then I just want to say that I do not know, and that is why I do not want to start botanising in detail on why, but I can only say that it is part of the overall priority, in terms of how to make things stick together. Here, too, I see it in a context of overall priorities of what is available and what we see and assess in order to have the greatest effect of what we want to achieve, in this case a better green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907140022	Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907140023	I am sorry that the rapporteur for the Left has not been more concerned with these considerations, because if you want to have the greatest environmental impact or the most environmental impact on money, or whatever it is that the government uses as an expression, then the investment we have made in developing the green national accounts, in fact peanuts, is in relation to the importance this would have when we then build the green GDP and the reform model upstairs, which should make it possible to develop an economic model in the Ministry of Finance, which can therefore take into account the consequences of our various policy initiatives in the green area and what that means for our economy when we invest in, for example. cleaner air, clean water, better nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907140107	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907140109	I can easily tell the rapporteur a lot of things, but what I am trying to say is that I do not want to pretend that I know in detail. I just want to end by saying that in this area too, the Finance Act is of course about something that is really big and something that is smaller in crowns and ears, but for me it is about getting things in context and not in silos. And yes, there may be something on the green environmental accounts that would have been different if it had been to Mrs Kirsten Brosbøl. Yes, there could have been something on the transport switch compared to Mr. Henning Hyllested, but as long as the direction points the right way, including as far as the green transition is concerned, I am satisfied and therefore I insist on seeing the Finance Act as a whole and not in some silo division, where you see area by area. Denmark is linked, and so is our Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907140156	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Jacob Jensen. We move on to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mr. Pelle Dragsted, with a rapporteur's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907140208	The actor Flemming Jensen wrote a wise post the other day. He wrote that we in Denmark have had a consensus for many years that there must be a lower limit to how miserable we can allow our fellow citizens to live, and an upper limit to how much the individual has the right to grope for himself. It is a consensus that, unfortunately, the government seems to want to put an end to. The extra magazine actually showed all that is to say about this proposal, on a single post: ordinary Danes who go to work must have 5,000 DKK. more a year, when we reach 2023, the director, who earns 1 million. kr., gets 28,000 kr., while the director, who earns 3 million. kr., gets 85,000 kr. a year. And if we go up and look at the 1,000 Danes with the highest incomes, they can warm up with more than DKK 200,000. more every year. It is quite obvious that these are top tax concessions in disguise. It is the same Danes at the top of the income scale who get the big discounts, just by some other channels. That's smart, maybe a little too smart. What about those who have at least the Danes who are affected by illness or unemployment? What about our million-dollar pensioners? They don't get a bent penny-- nothing at all. And it's actually worse than that, because the government wants the poorest Danes to pay a good deal of the bill for the tax rebates to Director Danmark. 1 billion kr. comes from the cuts in cash benefits, from the 60,000 children affected. But that is only the beginning, because the proposal says that the government will find 5 billion. kr. through what they call adjustments in the transfers • adjustments. This is an amount equivalent to ten times the cuts resulting from the ceiling on cash benefits. So, to call it adjustments is to say that the Titanic was affected by a minor water damage. The Ministry of Finance has then referred to the children's cheque and income principles for foreigners as possible sources, but anyone who knows about public finances can tell themselves that there is no 5 billion. kr. If you are going to find so much money, you have to go into the pockets of the large groups: the pensioners, the early retirementists or the students. We don't know because the government won't tell us. So the folk pensionists must go out there and put their necks down, while the government behind closed doors negotiates with the Danish People's Party and finds out who should hold for it. But no matter who gets the bill, it will be the case that some of the poorest Danes have to pay for lower taxes for those who have the most from poor children to cheaper cars, from those at the bottom, to those at the top. It's unsympathetic, it's unsolidarian, and it's unspeakable. With the unbridled redistribution from bottom to top that the government's proposals will bring, it is really no wonder that the governing parties have knotted themselves to see what they could do to conceal the real consequences of the proposal. We have experienced a prime minister who on direct television lied the Danes to the head when he said that the HK made the most of the tax proposal. We have seen a Ministry of Finance which has spread deeply misleading figures to the media and the public. It is also deeply and deeply problematic from a democratic point of view that a government in this way misuses the trust of the people and the authority with which it is endowed. It was not the HK, nor relative, that made the most of the proposal. It was the director. We know that today, as has the Ministry of Finance. Moreover, it is absolutely ridiculous to estimate the distribution of tax reductions relatively in percentage terms. It's crowns and ears that count. My mother's a social worker. She gets isn't a relative discount down in Fact because she has less income than the director. It's just more spin and more jokes from the government parties. The latest inventions are almost even more comical, for according to the government we do not have to choose between welfare and tax relief at all, because tax relief is such a strange exercise that reminds us of George Orwell's new language: war is peace, freedom is slavery, tax relief is welfare. In other words, if low taxes are welfare, should we also call low-tax countries such as Singapore welfare societies, even though they do not have anything that just resembles the social security that we have here at home? The less security, the more welfare societies. No, you can hear it yourself, can't you? The concept becomes meaningless. So drop the spin and let's hold on to an honest and accurate language. Private wealth is private wealth, and it's great. Welfare is welfare. The reality is that we cannot spend the same money twice. If the government gets its way and spends 17 billion. kr. To lower the tax, we can't spend the 17 billion. kr. at our hospitals, our kindergartens and our care for the elderly. And when, in the coming years, there will be rising costs, because happily we live longer, that will mean that we cannot provide our elderly with the same security as today. That is the choice we have. Then you can bring all the language games you want, but that's the choice we have. In fact, it should not be difficult for the government, not if we had a Prime Minister who kept his word to the people. Try to turn the time back just a few years to the time when the present Prime Minister would convince us that the post-retirement pay should be rounded off and we all had to work several years. What did the Prime Minister say about the reforms back then? He said that these reforms were necessary if we were to ensure that welfare costs could follow when more elderly people in the future needed home help and nursing homes and health care. And what are we experiencing now? Well, here comes the same Prime Minister, sir. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, God help me and tells us that the economic space created by the reforms must be used to put the treasure down for them at the top. What about welfare? Instead of allowing welfare expenditure to grow in line with the increase in the number of elderly people, the government's downgrading of public spending will mean that there will be less money per year. elderly, fewer visits from the home helper, less help for an increasing number of demented elderly people. And it does not make it any better that the distribution of the tax rebates that the government wants to distribute is inversely proportional to who the reforms have hit hardest. Because it wasn't the director or the lawyer who carried the weight of the reforms. They have good retirement schemes and enough money to pay for an early pension themselves. Nevertheless, it is they who must now be rewarded, while the unemployed, the pensioners and the low-paid Danes get either little or nothing. So those who through deprivation and lost rights created the room for manoeuvre do not get the welfare they were promised, nor do they get a fair share of the gains from lower taxes. This kind of cheating against the people has a name: break of promise. Fortunately, this breach can be prevented. Fortunately, we can still ensure a secure welfare in the future. Fortunately, we can prevent the unsympathetic redistribution from bottom to top, which the government is proposing. For the Danes have thus put together a Parliament, where there is a majority of parties that, before the elections, told the electorate that they were against top tax reliefs and also the disguised ones of the kind. There is a majority of parties that have promised that there must be security of welfare, even when we are growing older. That majority is today. The Danish People's Party can use it if they want. There is absolutely no need to accept such lukewarm compromises, which just make great damage a little less, because the government has nowhere else to turn. Whether the Danish People's Party will contribute to the Prime Minister's promise and cheat the Danes for the welfare they were promised will show the coming weeks and months. I hope not, and I do not think the people do, because the vast majority of Danes, who are made a fool of their own money by the government, have deserved so much better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141115	Thank you to the rapporteur. The only person who has asked for the floor so far is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go. We welcome you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141125	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted is a wise man, whom I respect very much, because Mr. Pelle Dragsted is very knowledgeable. That is why I sometimes wonder when Mr. Pelle Dragsted says something like Mr. Dragsted says something. Pelle Dragsted must know is wrong. 'Cause when sir... Pelle Dragsted says that tax concessions are being given to the same people over and over again - I think that was the wording of Mr Dragsted. Pelle Dragsted, and I understood it so that it was tax cuts to the same people over and over again at the top. Pelle Dragsted well that it's wrong. It's wrong, because there, like Mr. Pelle Dragsted knows is a very, very great dynamic in the group of people with high incomes. It is not the same people who have high incomes year after year that is a great dynamic in it. When you are young, you typically have a low income, but when you enter the labour market, you get a higher income. That's the way it is in the real world. Part of the similarity in Denmark is that by far most of us actually try much of the same. We are trying to have low incomes at some point in our lives, and we are trying to have high incomes during our lives, so it is not the same concrete people who get tax cuts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141252	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141256	I think it's an exciting picture. Now I come out of a family of social workers myself, and I know none of them have been around, for example, throughout their lives. to pay top tax. It's not like we're all gonna be managers or stock investments that give us a return of more than $50,000. a year. Most people don't. Yes, we move, some do, but there are also people who, for example. are affected by disability and are on early retirement throughout their lives, and some of them have received nothing. There are also those who have been born into wealth; we have many of them in Denmark and who are rich throughout their lives. So of course there is a social dynamic, but that doesn't change the fact that if you figured out the tax cuts that have been made since the beginning of this millennium, if you looked at the individual, too, but I don't know if you have any records for you would be able to find some people who have received huge discounts, and then you will be able to find a very, very large group of people who have experienced that their income has diminished.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141408	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141411	But that doesn't change the fact that when you look into society, you see that the vast majority, by far the majority in the labour market, are trying to belong to that part of the population with the 20%. highest incomes, the vast majority try to belong to that part of the population with the 20%. lowest incomes during their lives. And yes, then I have heard the Left talking about the 1,000 richest, i.e. 0.017%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this report, and I would like to thank him for the work he has done on this subject. ) has a low income today, can have a high income in a few years' time and benefit from some other tax relief. 40% of everyone on the labour market is trying to pay top tax at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141504	Then we need time to get an answer. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141508	Yes, and that also means that there are 60% who do not, and that is so among other things. Those who have been passed over when it comes to substantial reductions in taxes. Moreover, although it is true that there are people who are fortunate enough to pay top taxes because they are skilled and there are many other reasons for this, I do not really see that that is an argument for not having to pay any more. The people I know who pay top taxes are happy to do so. They were poor when they were students, but they are happy to help finance that some others get the same chances as they are for success, get a job and make some money (First Vice-President Thank you to the rapporteur!) and, if that is to be possible, we must have a welfare society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141555	Then it is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, and then it is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141604	Thank you. It was perhaps not so surprising that Enhedslisten does not agree with the government's proposal, because I would have expected that too. But what I think is perhaps more interesting to talk about is that the Socialists came up with theirs, you might say, this morning, there were not as many figures in it, but nevertheless it was an exercise. And in this proposal, the government's financing is based on the fact that it is part of the modern ceiling for cash aid. That is why I think it is relevant to know what Enhedslisten thinks of the Socialists as wanting to continue the modern ceiling on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141637	First of all, there is nothing modern about the ceiling on cash benefits. It is just as miserable as the ceiling on cash benefits that was implemented last time, and just as devastating for many Danish families who are affected by unemployment and disease. I noted that the Socialist rapporteur up here said earlier that an amendment to the Finance Act had been tabled on this very subject last year, and this is what we are expected to do this year. I think that is a good thing. I wish the Social Democrats were even clearer in spiting to roll back the cynical cash aid ceiling as the first, but our policy is clear. It must be rolled back, and it should be done on the first Finance Act when we have a new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141719	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141722	But is that something that Enhedslisten will take up if it is the case that Enhedslisten must support a red government? Is it the question of whether the Red Government will continue with the cash aid ceiling and the integration benefit, or is it something that you will first wait with a Finance Act to see if you can get it through? After all, we have seen what is happening with the Finance Act under red governments before. It is not always possible to get the things you want through through, and I understand that, but it is perhaps interesting to know whether it is also a requirement for possible support for a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141750	After all, we managed to remove poverty benefits from the first financial law, the last time a social democratic government stepped in, among other things. Because Enhedslisten said that we should have a discussion in our party, among other things. with our almost 10,000 members, how to deal with our relationship with a future social democratic government. And one of the things we are discussing is whether the process of government formation itself should be used more offensively, more actively, and whether we should play a more active role there and already there, at a slightly earlier stage, if I may say so, get one another in the eye. That discussion is going on, and personally I think it is a good idea that, before a government is formed, we have talked (First Vice-President Thank you!), not only among the parties that sit in the government, but among all the parties (First Vice-President Thank you to the rapporteur!), which forms the parliamentary basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141837	We'll move on, and then it'll be Mr. Knox. Jacob Jensen and then Mr. René Christensen. Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141841	Thank you. There has been a lot of talk about inequality and bias and all such things, and therefore I would like to ask: what is Enhedslisten's goal in relation to achieving equality in Denmark? Is there an objective that the Gini coefficient should be at some level? Is there a goal that if, for example, we do not have the right to vote in local elections? sent the 1,000 richest Danes out of the country so purely theoretically it would be preferable? Or what is Enhedslisten's goal in achieving more equality than what is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141915	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907141918	We don't have a target on the Gini coefficient for where we're going. But our aim is to have a higher level of equality than today. Because it is true, as the rapporteur said earlier, that we are still high in comparison with other countries. But what the rapporteur forgets to say is that it is from a movement where in all the countries that had a high degree of equality in the past, Sweden, Norway, Germany and Denmark have experienced the same development, i.e. an increased distance between the income of especially the most robbing part of the top and so ordinary people. It has run away, not only in relation to those who are outside, but it is, after all, ordinary employees who have experienced that their wages have stood still while the incomes of him they worked for, or the shareholders who made money from their work, are galloped out there. We think this is unfair. We think that people should have the fruits of their own work as much as possible. In addition, we believe that equal societies work better than unequal societies. There is a reason why Denmark, Norway and Sweden are all three countries in top ten compared to the world's richest countries. We have a high level of employment and a high level of productivity. It is hardly by chance that it is precisely welfare societies with a high degree of equality that are located there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142031	It sounded very good: the fruits of your own work, from which you should keep as much as possible. Then it must be to the right of the Enhedslisten to support a massive tax relief on labour income. I'll take care of that. Then I would say that there has to be some kind of objective of equality. Now I mentioned before, and it was of course a little polemical, but nevertheless there would be a consequence if you took these very mentioned 1,000 rich Danes or the Mærsk family, the LEGO family, the Grundfos family, the Danfoss family, and they were sent to Germany for various reasons. Then we would have a more equal Denmark. But would it be good for Enhedslisten to achieve equality in that way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142112	No, that wouldn't be good. I think it is good that there are people who run large companies, and I also think it is quite right that those people pay to help finance the society that has created the framework for their ability to create wealth. There is no one who creates wealth alone. You can't go out on a desert island and create it, and we can't all be directors. We need someone who works for us, too. If we all wanted to be directors, we couldn't create wealth at all. For who would create the values? So it's a mutual addiction. We need welfare, we need something to be created, and in relation to this thing of keeping the fruit of its own work, I would say: remember that before tax there is another distribution. It is the one that is between pay and profit, and unfortunately it has run off in the wrong direction for a number of years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142156	Then it's mr. René Christensen, and then it's Mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142200	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. In fact, I also think it has been a rather interesting debate that has been here, with the last rapporteurs, about SKAT, because we have heard where Enhedslisten stands. There's been this picture that either it's tax relief or welfare, and the two things are black and white. But now I also hear that many of the people we are talking about, and especially those in the low-wage group, are in fact some of those we want more of. These are SOSU assistants, and for many of them they can't actually get full time, they can't get 37 hours a week, and the same thing when we talk about educators in day care institutions, schools and other places. Does the rapporteur not see it as an opportunity to be sure that we can recruit staff for welfare as well, that it is made attractive to take these jobs? In fact, if you find a little money to be able to grant a tax relief at the bottom, it will also be easier to get more welfare because it will be easier to recruit for jobs that are not 37 hours old. Then we get more welfare, also for a small tax relief for those at the bottom.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142252	We would very much like to make a tax reduction at the bottom of the income scale, and when we say at the bottom, it does not quite mean the same as when the government and perhaps not the Danish People's Party say at the bottom, because we actually mean all people, including folk pensioners, also early retirementists. So what we have proposed very clearly is that, instead of reducing the employment allowance, the personal allowance should be increased. And we have put forward a plan which means that you will be able to secure the very lowest incomes 5,000 kroner. more a year. We just don't want to finance it at the room, which we don't even know is there in the future, or at the welfare. We would like to finance this by increasing the rate of progress in our tax system a little more, because marginal tax has, after all, fallen dramatically over the last few decades, and we really think that they could be asked at the top to help finance a slightly lower tax for those who also have many of the hard and hard jobs and important jobs in our society. So we are quite willing to give lower taxes to the lowest incomes, but it should not be financed by taking the money out of the pockets of folk pensioners, or by what the government imagines, nor by taking the money out of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142401	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142404	I think that was a liberating answer, rather than constantly having this discussion about whether it is black or white, because that is not the way much is in life. Then I have a fundamental question about the starting point of Enhedslisten. Should there be a difference between passive support and active employment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142422	Yes, it may, but I think that a society works best if it doesn't get too far away. I do not think that it is healthy for a society to have to suffer temporarily from unemployment or illness leading to an economic deroise. And I know that a lot of people have been in that situation because they are, and the rapporteur is certainly experiencing this, writing to us and telling us their stories. These are the people the rapporteur is talking about. People who have gone to work and paid their taxes will, for example, be: An accident has occurred and, after eight months, they are out of the sickness insurance system and on cash benefits, and they have to sell their car, sell their house, otherwise they will not be able to receive cash benefits. It's the kind of society I don't want. Of course you have to be able to earn more, and for an ordinary LEO, the level of compensation is therefore only around 40%, as I remember, and that means that there is therefore a great deal to be done by getting a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142514	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142522	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank Mr. Pelle Dragsted for the rapporteur's speech. But I would also like to ask a simple question. 'Cause when we had mr. Jacob Jensen, the rapporteur of the Left, could almost think that the parties behind the Togfonden DK were deliberately trying to keep the government out of the agreement or that they had not had the opportunity to join. And that's why I'm just gonna ask mr. Pelle Dragsted, if he can confirm that both the former pure Left Government, but also the present enlarged government, have had the opportunity to join and that it is indeed normal practice for a government to agree to the settlement in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142609	I fully agree with that. At the first meeting I had at all with the former Minister for Finance Claus Hjort Frederiksen, the first thing I and Mrs Pernille Skipper said to him was that we should now make the two agreements. I'm sorry, but it's crazy that we have to sit around and try to make appointments around a government without an official job. And we have seen that in the later stages too. It has been a bizarre process which, after all, ends up with the government having to bow down. That's ridiculous! Well, it's a waste of time. Compared to our time, you could say, "Never mind." But to the Danes who are actually counting on us in here and who expect that when an agreement has been made, it is also being implemented, I think it has simply been a silly behaviour on the part of the government in this train fund case. But the problem is that you are becoming more and more in doubt. So, with the procedures that have been going on, one might ask oneself: is the government going to join in this settlement, and will they use it to tighten even more legs for the further roll-out of this train fund? Is it almost better with the knowledge that we have that it is something we manage in a conciliation circle which we certainly do not directly hate railways and rail traffic in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142720	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142724	Thank you, President. I would just like to conclude by asking whether the rapporteur can confirm that the conciliation circle has the expectation that the government will now incorporate, without further friction, the elements agreed by a majority of the parties in the Folketing, without the government being able to agree, into the agreement which, in practice, is a partial agreement in relation to the draft budget, which was presented earlier today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142748	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142751	That is clear, and I think the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party expects that too. Perhaps the question should be addressed to him. It is a little strange if the Danish People's Party has to use negotiating capital during a financial bill negotiation to get something that is majority in favour of in the Danish Parliament. So it will make everything a little easier if we do not have to go out again with amendments to the Finance Act that the government like sees the writing on the wall and actually implements what a majority in the Folketing has decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142825	There are no more brief comments and we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907142842	Thank you for that, President. Four years ago, I met Curly. Together with many other socially vulnerable, he stayed at Vesterbro. Curl was very marked by many years of drug use and he was unable to do an ordinary job. Curl was one of them on the edge of society. I remember him because he so terribly wanted to contribute to society and slowly crab himself back. And then I remember him because he had a really good idea. He proposed to make a social free card so that people like him were allowed to take a few hours' work from local businesses, for example: homeless people, drug users and other marginalised citizens. in cafes, hotels or kiosks, without being counted against in public services. Curling would like to work the few hours he could without having to go through the layer of municipal bureaucracy that we know is such an obstacle to getting into work for people like Curly. Curly is not here anymore, unfortunately, but I am very pleased that the government has the proposal for a social card. I hope that it will be adopted and that it will make a difference to the socially vulnerable. However, I am also pleased with the draft budget for other reasons. I'm glad the engineer gets to keep a little more of his own money. In this way, he can buy himself a little more free time and perhaps cultivate his hobby a little more or have more time with his family. He is given an incentive to make an extra effort on the labour market, because that is what is needed. It would be good if he did. I am also glad that the cashier or cashier in Netto gets more out of her job. I am basically pleased that we are taking care of all family types and all Danes from the socially disadvantaged, who get a shorter and less troublesome way into the labour market, to the LO worker and the director, who, year after year, pays a greater proportion of his total income in tax, VAT and taxes than employees in other comparable countries. We make it easier and cheaper to be a Dane. For all types, work must in future pay better, additional labour market efforts should be made, especially for those who earn little more than the minimum wage. Because it is just not fair that there are 50,000 employees who receive less than 2,000 kroner. in the month out of work; some lose almost money in making efforts on the labour market. Nor is it fair that there are such high taxes on cars. No one could propose a levy of 150 per cent today. on television, microwave ovens or refrigerators. It makes no sense to have such a tax on cars, and if we did not have such a tax on cars today, nobody could suggest that we should have a levy of 150 per cent. On cars. If the government can find a majority to lower the registration fee to 100%, then the marginal tax on cars will still be 150 per cent, since the registration tax on cars will be paid. I repeat: VAT on cars is taxed in Denmark. And we'll just leave that for a second. So you first pay VAT on the car and then pay registration tax on the VAT on the car. Who honestly thinks this is sensible? In addition, the registration fee also goes awry. Today, drivers pay approx. 48 billion. kr. to the Treasury broken down by expenditure such as registration fee, green tax, tax on fuel, etc., but the State's expenditure is much less than they amount to only about 20 billion. kr., i.e. infrastructure costs, the damage etc. caused by carism. In other words, there is a massive overpayment, and who is hit by it? Yes, it does not affect the privileged family father in Copenhagen who is fortunate enough to be able to take the metro, the S-train or his bike to work. No, it affects the families who have settled in the countryside, far away from the major Danish cities. In West Jutland you can't just put your son on the train when he's going to football training, or take the bike to work; here it's often necessary to have a car and sometimes to have two cars in the household. Charges on cars are basically a stupid ticket for people who live far away from Copenhagen, Aarhus and Odense. We don't think that's fair. Since the 2015 elections, the Liberal Alliance has helped to reduce registration fees twice. And, of course, I would be lying if I said that I hope we do not have the support to do so a third time, so that we can correct another tax that hits a wrong. I also welcome the fact that the government is proposing to abolish one of the most comical taxes in Denmark, namely the nut tax. Why do we have taxes on nuts? Why? If you didn't know better, you'd think it's because we Danes need something to laugh about. The nut tax is a bureaucratic nuisance for Danish companies, and it costs competitiveness in relation to abroad. Many politicians on the right and on the left have talked over time about removing the nut tax. The government removes the tax and thus relieves a large administrative burden. Let this be a starting point for us to be able to remove a further set of charges in the coming years. There are many strange charges out there, such as coffee tax and softice powder tax to name just two examples. It must not only be easier and cheaper to be a Dane, it must also be easier and cheaper to be a company in Denmark and run a business in Denmark. All in all, the government is proposing to lighten taxes and charges for citizens and businesses for a total of 23 billion. kr. But in that calculation it is important to remember that just over a third will come back into the treasury again, and that is primarily because citizens will work more and therefore pay more in income tax from the remaining taxes. In other words, citizens and businesses are allowed to keep 23 billion. kr., but the state only misses 15 billion. kr. Where I come from, we call it a good deal. But doesn't our financial act increase inequality? To that there is just to say: yes, it does. With the tax reform, we increase inequality by just 0.46 percentage points on the Gini coefficient, because we basically have the view that working should pay off. We basically have the view that it should be easier to get a foot in the labour market. We basically have the view that there must be a difference between work and transfer income. And if you now agree with the Liberal Alliance that it must be worthwhile to work, which I believe all parties in the Folketing are actually, yes, you yourself are in favour of economic inequality. It is a fact that tax reforms increase inequality. This was also the case with the recent tax reform, which, among other things, includes: Social democracy and the SF were behind it. If you want to increase economic growth, it is almost impossible not also to increase inequality, at least in Denmark. It is clear that inequality is not an end in itself, but it is something we accept because we are making reforms that make society richer as a whole. And that's what the government's tax reform does. All Danes in work will keep more of the money they have earned with the government's initiative. All Danes in work deserve to have their taxes relieved at work. All tax relief is good tax relief, and yes: tax relief is also welfare. Let me illustrate one last time the strange discussion about inequality. Gentofte Municipality is today Denmark's most unequal municipality. Langeland Municipality is the most equal, so if the left-wing rhetoric about inequality fits, Langeland should be such a Utopia in Denmark, and Gentofte should be an absolutely terrible place to live. Langeland is a great place, but so is Gentofte, and I do not think that any of the citizens in their everyday lives are thinking very much about what the Gini coefficient is exactly in their municipality. However, I think that many people in Langeland would like Langeland to be a somewhat richer municipality. The objective must never be to be equally poor. The goal must be for us all to be more prosperous. Overall, this financial act provides a better balance between the state and the citizen. This gives a better and fairer balance between working and not working. We benefit from this exercise by all those who create value by making productive efforts in the Danish labour market. And it's from types like Krølle, if he gets his foot on the labour market, over the man at the cash register and to the engineer and the manager. Everyone must have an incentive to make an extra effort. Everyone needs more work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907143902	Thank you for that and there are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907143916	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There is not much surprise or new in the position of the Liberal Alliance, but no matter what, it is always interesting to hear how Mr. Joachim B. Olsen looks at the world. I know very well that the Liberal Alliance is a relatively new party. Nevertheless, in 2006 there was a very, very great reconciliation of welfare across a number of parties in the Folketing, which among others. agreed gradually and eventually to increase the retirement age as well as a large number of other things to simply ensure that we would be able to afford to pay for the welfare that we know we will need in the future with the demographic features and so on. The current Prime Minister, who was also Prime Minister back in 2011, also justified the phasing-out of the post-earning salary by the fact that in the future we should be able to afford to finance the welfare that is needed in terms of care for the elderly, health and what otherwise was used by arguments. Now we are in a situation in which the terms of that agreement are abandoned. And what I would like to ask the Liberal Alliance is whether it is possible to attribute credit to them and whether the government is satisfied with that exact result.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144032	It could be tempting to answer yes to the fact that the entire government's proposal is attributable to the Liberal Alliance. But that would be wrong. For the premise that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen sets up is wrong. The agreements to which reference is made have indeed brought Danish economy to a successful conclusion. They have helped create room for manoeuvre, and in the absence of that room for manoeuvre one would not have been able, for example. to increase public consumption. Nor would there have been any money to put the treasure down, but of course I may have missed something. So I have to make a reservation now. I've read through those appointments once. It has now been some time since I read the 2006 agreement. However, I do not believe that the parties in that agreement committed themselves to voting in favour of public spending corresponding to the demographic move, in other words committed themselves to voting in favour of 0.6%. or 0,7 per cent. growth in public consumption in all the fiscal laws in the future. That does not alter the fact that those reforms have meant that there is room for, for example, a European social area. to increase public consumption. Then we can discuss how much we have to do it, but in the absence of those reforms there would have been major structural deficits in public finances and there would have been no room for growth in public consumption. So the PM hasn't said anything wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144154	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144158	In relation to the latter, I do not think that the Prime Minister has necessarily said anything wrong. And the part that came before that, I think we agree, in other words, that all of us in the parties that concluded the agreements have an interest in ensuring that it will safeguard our welfare society and public finances in the future. But I can tell Mr. Simpson... Joachim B. Olsen stated that what was in the 2006 agreement was: • The strengthening of public finances, which will in the long term take place through the new withdrawal system, is reserved to ensure the financing of the welfare society in the future. The funds will be used to finance additional expenditure on, among other things: care and health, when there are more elderly people, and for stronger action against wear and tear in the labour market. This is therefore the basic thing, and what we know at the same time is that the so-called demographic feature requires a growth in public consumption of at least 0.7 per cent, and that this government has put forward a reduction in public consumption growth. This will in fact lead to savings in health and care and, for that matter, to prevent labour market wear and tear. Will Mr. Joachim B. Olsen didn't admit it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144258	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144302	No, I don't agree with that. For what the Social Democrats are doing is that they completely, what to say, misinterpret what the demographic trait is for a size. Earlier today, I heard Mr. Benny Engelbrecht quotes the Ministry of Finance for something that is absolutely wrong. What the Ministry of Finance says about the demographic trait is: "It should be stressed that the calculation of the demographic trait is of a mechanical nature and should generally be interpreted cautiously. The demographic trait is primarily used as an element in a long-term sustainability calculation and is therefore not aimed at making calculations of, for example, the precise expenditure aspect in individual years in the short term. For example, the calculation does not take into account that the cost of an additional user may differ from the average cost per user. user. • The demographic move does not therefore take into account the fact that there are, of course, economies of scale when there are more older people. The last elderly person is not as expensive to care for as the first elderly one. So social democracy misinterprets or misuses what the demographic trait as a concept covers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144421	Thank you. I would draw attention to the fact that in the short remarks there is 1 minute in the first round for both the questioner and the rapporteur, and that in the second round there is only 1⁄2 minute. We move on to the next question in line, and that's sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144436	Thank you for that and also thank the rapporteur for a good rapporteur's speech. Honey, I think we all know that means a lot to the Liberal Alliance, and that's very much what we pay in taxes. Then I also hope that the tax system means a lot to the Liberal Alliance. You can see, if you look at the last 8-10 years, that the biggest tax cuts that have been given have been given to those who have cheated on taxes. Because revenue has been lost, and that is why I really want to ask a question. When you read in the government's proposal that 2.1 billion will be set aside. kr. I would also like to say that we welcome it in the Danish People's Party. But isn't it also now that we have to discuss what it is that needs to be invested in? Is it still gone only IT systems, or what about manual control? After all, we have seen several times, including in the Committee on Taxation, as the rapporteur is also part of the fact that warm hands in the SKAT are actually a very good investment. Many tax workers, especially in the control system, actually generate their wages several times. And if you care about taxes, does the rapporteur not agree that you should also have a great deal of confidence in it, especially when you pay a high tax, and that someone cannot fool around it, also to have confidence in the whole welfare model and the tax system?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144547	Yes, I fully agree with that. But those who have cheated on taxes have not received a tax relief. It is they who are not, of course, historically large amounts earmarked for the recovery of SKAT that is 5.1 billion. kr. in the Finance Act in the coming years. There's 400 million in this budget bill. kr. I think we are very much in agreement on the need for this to be done. We hope, of course, and I hope that the Danish People's Party will do so, that at some point we can get to a place where you can of course digitise some of the functions that SKAT has. There are certainly digitization projects that have gone wrong, and we hear a lot about them. But there are also some who have gone very well, and we do not hear so much about them, because we take it as a matter of course, and that may also be natural enough. But yes, the government has put forward a financial bill with additional resources, also for monitoring.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144655	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144659	The question is that part of the money goes to some of these IT projects, which are a little wasted, and that has cost more money. I can give you an example. Now we are talking a lot about car taxes at the moment, and Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, our tax rapporteur, asked a question at one point: how many of these cars have been taken for control? When the question was asked, no cars had been checked. In other words, we can say that we have been able to decide for ourselves what we have had to pay in tax on these cars in relation to the leasing hole. Now these cars have been checked. But that tells us a little about the situation we are in. We also agree that we need to make things easier in the future, and if we can use IT systems to get more out of resources, then we need to do so. But we are in a situation where it is important, also in the context of the Finance Act, that when we look at what this money is going to be used for, we also have to have the human factor in place until those IT systems are completed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144747	It is difficult to disagree with the fact that until something works, we must ensure that there are resources to solve the tasks we have to solve. Then, of course, there is a discussion about how many millions of people have to be set aside in order to carry out those tasks, and I suppose that is one of the things we are about to talk about. However, I believe that we agree on the objective of strengthening efforts. In relation to registration fees and controls, it may also sometimes be the law that is wrong with it. In countries that do not have a registration fee at all, you probably don't spend hundreds of millions of dollars on checking this area by nature.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144827	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144832	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that work should be better worthwhile, but I wonder whether the rapporteur also wonders whether there are so many who object to Annette Hansen, the HK from Køge, having a tax relief. Can the rapporteur say whether the rapporteur is also wondering what might be the reason why we are so opposed to Annette Hansen having a tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144858	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144901	I find that very difficult to understand, so I find it very difficult to understand why one can be against the fact that in the country with the world's highest tax burden some are allowed to keep more of their own money. Social democracy once sang: We are torn by the sharp claw of the treasure. They are no longer singing; now they have become a tax party that is in favour of as high taxes as possible. What we are really doing here is increasing the disposable income of employees, and it is usually something that is important for the trade union movement, in other words increasing the disposable income of employees. And we are, in fact, looking for a fairly large increase in disposable income for employees if we can find a majority behind what has been proposed. I think that would be nice, and I think the employees deserve that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144952	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907144955	Yeah, and that's kind of what my second question is about. Does the rapporteur think that there is also a value struggle to ensure that work is better worthwhile? I mean, I'm thinking about this, about the fact that there's actually a bigger difference in whether you choose to be at home or whether you get up every morning, lubricate your lunch and go to work? Is there a reason to focus on that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145018	Well, of course there is. I believe that this is absolutely crucial for the support for the model that we all basically support, namely that it is of course worth standing up and making productive efforts. There has to be a difference, and so that you don't do it, so there has to be a difference. That is a reasonable view. After all, everyone says that they are in agreement, but not everyone is willing to make the changes in our tax system that actually mean that it is worth making a difference. And that's what people have to be judged on, not what they say, but what they're willing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145102	The next question in the line is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145107	Thank you. In a way, it must be a somewhat depressing experience for the Liberal Alliance to experience this debate and perhaps especially the Danish People's Party's speech and answer, because if the Danish People's Party keeps its promise, there will be no big tax rebates for the Saxo Bank segment, and then there will be no cheaper luxury cars, and instead we will have a growth in welfare of 0.8%. And when the Liberal Alliance entered the government, the party chairman said it was because it would be possible to get more of the Liberal Alliance's policy through. But as it sounds today, it sounds more like a rather cold cloth on the face, if not to call it a marked humiliation of the Liberal Alliance. So my question is, if it ends as we hear today, will the Liberal Alliance continue in government? I understand that this is an annoying question, because it is at least attractive to stay for a few months until the Minister's pension is in place. But nevertheless, in relation to what Mr. Anders Samuelsen said both before 2015 and when you entered the government, then it must give rise to reflection if it ends, as the debate today says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145224	Then it came with Saxo Bank. It comes almost every time, doesn't it? That's ridiculous, but if it's sir... Lars Seier, who is referred to, does not receive any tax relief because he lives abroad. We would like to give tax relief to those who live in Denmark. As to whether or not we could step out of the government, it is not my job, but I can answer, I think, with a hundred percent certainty, that no, we could not do that. In fact, we think that we have quite a lot of influence and, at least, more influence than when we were not part of a government. And if we just get minimally more influence, it's worth it to us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145305	My next question is about the soul. For Mr. Anders Samuelsen said in his speech before 2015 at a national meeting: "The Conservatives and the SF have proven in their own way that you can win ministerial cars and lose your soul. With a growth in public consumption of 0.8%. From now on until 2025, is L.A.'s soul intact?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145337	Public growth of 0.8%. From now on, I'm not sure I'm going to happen. That's not what the government is up to. The government is adding up to 0.3% of public consumption growth. Of course it must be negotiated with other parties, but it has been drawn in our direction. I think the Left Government was up to 0.5%, and now it's 0.3%. I hope, of course, that the compromises will be drawn in our direction. That is what I believe the 265 000 voters who voted for the Liberal Alliance expect from us. It is that we are doing what we can to pull things in our direction. And, as I said, if it's just minimally more influence we get by being in government, then I think it's right to be. Maybe the Enhedslisten should try it sometime if they're invited. I'm not sure they do. But I think it would be healthy for Enhedslisten to try it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145427	The next in line is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145432	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. After all, there are a number of transport policy measures in the Finance Act, including some of those mentioned by the rapporteur here. What I am wondering is that the Minister for Transport has said that it is not his table to look at the effects of climate policy. I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not agree that it is important to assess the impact of transport policy on the climate, in relation to the financial bill that has come up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145510	Yes, but what is referred to in Denmark's Statistics? I think the question was a little vague. However, if it is registration fees that are referred to, then there is no place in the economy where pollution is taxed as hard as when it comes to the pollution that comes from cars. In other words, even if you removed the registration fee, it would be the case that taxes on petrol etc. still would pay for the externalities associated with driving. And that is not very wise from such a socio-economic approach to it. After all, it is also one of the bottom lines of the alternative, one must understand: the economic bottom line. Of course, we must ensure that the polluter pays, but we must not have such high taxes that they are higher than the costs associated with pollution. For then there will be a socio-economic loss, and that is what happens in relation to the total taxes and taxes on cars. That's not wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145617	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145620	Then I think I'll ask in another way. Does the rapporteur agree that Denmark must comply with the Paris Agreement and the 17 world objectives, in that we should not increase our emissions, but that we should limit it? Does the rapporteur think that the financial bill helps to bring about a sustainable transformation in Denmark? Can the rapporteur demonstrate that it helps with the sustainable transformation in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145645	In other words, as far as I am aware, we are complying with the agreements we have concluded, including the agreements referred to here. These are agreements which are on a wide range of different parameters. They're not just about climate. The Paris Agreement does, but the others, for example. The world goals, etc., are all about a lot of other things. And you live up to that, too, with this financial act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145707	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145713	Thank you. I would also like to ask a few questions about the various sub-objectives we have in the area of climate change. After all, we have both the quota sector and the non-quota sector. If we continue in the direction that the government has set out, then we will not achieve our objectives. That is why I just have a very specific question. If we do not make it within, for example. transport, will you look at other areas in order to achieve our objectives? It could be agriculture. That's not what I heard the government say. But where else do we have to over-fulfil targets to compensate for the fact that things are going very, very bad in transport?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145757	Well, I can't stand here and say that you don't achieve the goals you've set yourself. In other words, it is very difficult to know what technological achievements can be achieved, for example. The transport industry, which causes less pollution to be discharged. It would be nice if less pollution were discharged. Nobody thinks that pollution is good. But there are many considerations to be taken into account. So, we could also ban driving completely, so there was no pollution from driving, but that would have major social consequences. That would mean a huge loss of welfare, and it also has real consequences for real people in the real world. So there is a wide range of considerations to be taken into account. But I have not heard anyone claim that Denmark is far behind all sorts of other countries in achieving these objectives. I don't think we are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145844	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145847	Now I know that the Liberal Alliance is not so concerned about climate change, and that is why we must also apologise to the rapporteur if he may not know so much about this area. However, we have specific objectives in Denmark, something that we, as a country, have to meet, also in relation to the Paris Agreement. But now the rapporteur spoke of loss of wealth and that it may have some other socio-economic costs. One of the things on which one also sits and calculates is what exactly the climate cost in crowns and ears can be, not in 100 years' time, but in a few years' time. Some of what we are already seeing with some of the cases that have been in the United States and elsewhere with Hurricane Irma, etc., cost extreme amounts. So does the rapporteur think that it does not matter whether or not we achieve our objectives in this area, including for the sake of the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145939	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907145942	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen said that the Liberal Alliance does not care about climate. That is simply not true. Well, it's not like because you don't want to solve the problems, just like they want in the SF, you don't care. We find it problematic that for many years we have had a very irrational approach to addressing those challenges. It has been done in very expensive ways. There is a quota system, and so on, which does not work very well. This is not a very rational way to solve the challenges. You have to solve them in the most rational way, that is, where it costs the least, and you have not done so. We think it is time to look at it, and it is my understanding that here too there is widespread recognition in the Folketing of some parties that yes, we have not done it the smartest way ever, and that we must now look at how we do it in a smarter way. I can only welcome that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150033	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150042	Thank you. A lot can be said about the Liberal Alliance, but you have always been a party that has prided itself on basing your policy on the usual accounting methods of the Ministry of Finance. I would therefore ask the rapporteur to confirm that, according to the revised calculations of the Ministry of Finance, the government's tax reform will benefit the directors, i.e. the highest-paid, mostly in crowns and ears and relative terms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150105	I can't confirm that here, because I haven't had time to see those calculations. But I can say in general terms that I am not very concerned about those calculations. I have to admit that. What I am concerned about is that we are pursuing a policy that makes Denmark a more prosperous place. I've seen this whole discussion about directors and those who earn the most right now, and so on. I note that they are 1%. The richest in Denmark pay almost 10%. of all taxes. And the 10%. with the highest incomes paying over 30%. of all taxes in this country. It is the widest shoulders that carry the heaviest loads of tax burden in Denmark, and I think that, and we think that is really, really fine. But it is not the progression of the tax system that makes it the widest shoulders that carry the heaviest load. They would also do so if the top tax were abolished altogether, for example. There is one, what to say, balance between the fact that we want some redistribution and that we have a tax system that does not help us to achieve lower economic growth, lower prosperity. For those who pay the price for lower prosperity in the long run, then, those with the lowest incomes, those who need to live in a prosperous country where you can get help with the challenges you now have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150241	Yes, please. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150243	If you did not know better, you would almost think that the political rapporteur is sorry for the results achieved with the government. In other words, there has been a tax proposal from the government, which looks at the employment allowance, where you make a flat tax on cars, which increases the ceiling on pension payments. Whether you care about it or not, the rapporteur must be able to confirm that the measures both in crowns and ears and relatively most benefit the high-paid, for example, the Director.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150318	Some of these calculations are such ones where you take a registration fee or you abolish the tax on the free phone, and then you spread it out on all people. And that's very exciting and interesting, but that's just not the way it is in the real world. In the real world it is so that if you have a low income and you live in Jutland and need a car and registration fee has been lowered and you save 30,000 kr. on buying a car, you have saved relatively much. Here you try to distribute these savings to all people, and that's very theoretical, because nobody buys half a car or a tenth car. A family buys an entire car, and the family with a low income that buys an entire car also saves relatively much on the car. So I think it's an uninteresting discussion. What interests me and the Liberal Alliance and the government is how we conduct a policy that makes Denmark a more prosperous country. Second Vice-President Thank you for that. Because we have had very low economic growth, and we have the prospect of it, and we must have done so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150418	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150423	There were two interesting insights here from the Liberal Alliance. You should not say that things are not moving in Danish politics, namely both that you recognise the climate challenge, it is not always that we have heard it, but also that you are actually in favour of the polluter paying good principle. I would then like to explain why the Liberal Alliance is so fiercely opposed, as the only party in the Folketing seems, to redeploy registration fees so that the polluter pays the most, in other words, that the petrol-sucking cars, the environmentally harmful cars, pay more in car taxes, and those who pollute less pay less. It really is that the polluter pays. It is rational, it is wonderful, and we are not in favour of facilitating registration fees, but if we want to do so at last, we can just do it in such a way that the relief goes to the cars that pollute the least. Would it really not make a great deal of sense if the polluter were to pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150519	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150520	It makes very good sense that the polluter pays, very good sense, but even if you abolish registration fees, drivers will pay for the externalities associated with carism; they will pay for pollution. So they're already paying for it. Anything that doesn't make sense, I'll have to say to Mr. Knox. Martin Lidegaard, what is not rational, is that you have total taxes and taxes on motorism, which are many, many thousands times higher than the damage caused by drivers. That is not very wise in socio-economic terms. I thought Mr. Martin Lidegaard, but Mr. Martin Lidegaard seems to have little interest in the registration fee. For earlier he stood and said that it had no labour supply effect to lower it, when next to raising the top tax limit is the most effective tax policy tool you can pull out of the box. So maybe it's sir. Martin Lidegaard, who has to sit down and take a little more interest in the registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150613	We are very interested in facilitating tax relief at work. We are not interested in this, and I recognise this openly in order to facilitate registration fees for the largest cars in Denmark. We are not very interested in that. And since there seems to be a massive majority in the Folketing that does not think that you should just throw money at it so unconsciously, it will make sense even in the logic of the Liberal Alliance, as far as I can see. Well, I know that the Liberal Alliance would prefer to abolish all car taxes completely. You don't want that in the Folketing, fortunately. But would it not be a good idea to agree that the reliefs, which are then perhaps a majority in favour, are at least given in a way so that those who pollute the most pay the most? There is a discussion about how much and whether to lighten the registration fee, but let us park it. If you then say you want to lighten it by 100 kroner, why not do it for the cars that pollute the least, and vice versa, for my sake, would like to bring in the corresponding amount from those who pollute the most?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150713	That is a very good question, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard himself should actually be able to answer, because Mr. Martin Lidegaard was a minister in the Thorning government, he signed a government basis stating that it would convert to a technically based tax. Thirty-and-a-half years later, that hadn't happened. So maybe sir is sitting. Martin Lidegaard himself, in fact, with a knowledge that it is not as easy as Mr. Martin Lidegaard is trying to convince the audience and the viewers here. Because it's not that easy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150740	The next question is Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150753	It is of course no wonder that the whole question of registration fees, reduction of registration fees, etc., reductions in bridge charges, etc. etc., plays such a big role. It also played a major role in the rapporteur's speech, and the Liberal Alliance is, after all, a party which has very much taken up the fact that it simply has to be cheaper to buy a car and have a car. It just seems to me that we may not really think about the consequences. We have already mentioned, several of us, the climate consequences of sending more cars to the streets with the known technology, while at the same time we saw yes, not we, but some have stopped the electric car sales. But there is also the consequence of the increasing number of cars on our roads, the increase in congestion, and this is an urgent problem around us. Traffic is simply sanding, and this is causing the much-vaunted growth problems. It is a growth inhibitor that there is tribulation on our roads. How, then, does the Liberal Alliance, if I may say so, look up to actually sending more and more cars on the roads, while at the same time cutting down on public transport? You cut DSB by 2 billion. kr. The savings on Banedanmark are maintained at 125 million. kr. etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907150927	It is the case that if the registration fee were reduced to 100%, the Danes would save 2.1 billion. kr. in the registration fee, and the loss of revenue for the Treasury would be 800 million. kr. The Danes would save 2.1 billion. kr., the state would only miss 800 million. kr. This is a good deal for the citizens. It is true that there is congestion on the Danish roads, because driving by car is already a quite popular thing for many citizens. I think it's 77 percent. of all transport carried out in cars. Then you can ask yourself what the rational future is when we have to solve the infrastructure challenges that exist. Is it spending money on public transport, or is it spending money on expanding our road network to solve some of the problems that are particularly acute in some peak periods? They're not there all the time. Most of the time people can get around by car, even when they live over here in Copenhagen, and they can at least, when they live outside Copenhagen, where they need a car to live good lives. It is not a luxury commodity; it is simply a necessity when you live outside the big cities that you have a car. There we think that it would be a very, very great benefit to citizens if they were to get into safer cars, including more environmentally friendly cars, because that is what is happening. This is not, of course, the context that has been suggested, i.e. that small micro-cars are very environmentally friendly and that middle-class cars, in which there may be a whole family, are very harmful to the environment. There is no such link.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151110	We're about to finish. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151115	When it has become increasingly necessary to have a car, especially outside the big cities, and especially if we go all the way to rural areas, it is precisely because public transport is largely closed down in those parts of the country, so there is a clear link there. However, it is still as if the Liberal Alliance did not take the consequences of their own policy and say that it may well be that there are many citizens who think it would be nice to have a cheaper car. Clearly, who would not want a tax relief if you could get it? But there are some consequences, and I guess that is what we politicians are also set to do: there are consequences for the climate and the environment, and where, for example, there are consequences for the environment. pulling in the wrong direction. And there are some consequences of sending more cars on the roads in the form of congestion and less mobility and growth inhibition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151210	The reduction of registration fees does not make the Danes less mobile. Well, that's just not right. That is simply wrong. It is said that public transport in the outermost regions has been cut completely. I grew up in a small town, Halrimmen, up in North Jutland, and I went to look at the roadmap here the other day. There's a bus going on once an hour. I think there's 1,000 people living in the halfrimmen or something so you can get to Aalborg once an hour. Is it a lot, or is it a bit? I do not think it would be economically viable if it were to go more often. In fact, I think that it is relatively often running. Not many people are on that bus either, because out there people actually want a car. It facilitates their everyday life incredibly much, and it is among other things. That is why we would like to see the registration tax reduced, because it is one of the best ways to ensure that you can live good lives, even outside the big cities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151309	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151313	Thank you. One of the good things about knowing the Liberal Alliance and especially the Liberal Alliance's financial rapporteur here is that there is hardly any doubt that the poor should be cut further if it is possible to get away with it and that the rich should be gilded. Now it is the case that the government has played out that there are 5.25 billion. kr., which must be financed and that it must be reduced to provide the tax relief that is promised. If not, sir. Joachim B. Olsen can reveal what the government is going to come up with in order to finance this, will the rapporteur tell us how the Liberal Alliance views this matter? What are some services specifically to be cut back on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151401	Of course, I do not want to enter into a discussion here with Mr. Bjarne Laustsen on how to finance all this. There have been examples of some of what we would like to do, for example, that you have to pay Danish courses and other things that I think are entirely reasonable. But it is quite normal that when you have to negotiate a majority home, you should get back together and find funding. And then, frankly, I am tired of this unbelievable hypocrisy on the part of the Social Democratic Party which, a few years ago, financed top tax relief and corporate tax reductions with reductions in transfer income, all of them • all of the transfer income. There's no such thing as this. Then spare me the hypocrisy. It's not pretty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151452	But hypocrisy comes only from the Liberal Alliance. I mean, I happen to have been in here for many years now, and in those years it has also been the case that the Social Democrats have never presented unfunded tax cuts. If we have proposed things, they have always been funded. I think it is honest and fair when the electorate has to take a position on a policy and the negotiations are started to indicate how the bill is to be paid. I think it is fair that the Liberal Alliance should come and say that the director, who has much more to be given. That is quite fair, but why can we not be told whether it is those in society who have the least who, because of everything we have to invest in the future in people and their education, etc., are experiencing the cuts? Why can we not be told whether it is their education that has to be reduced? Why don't you tell me?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151541	I would just like to stress that the Liberal Alliance and the government could not dream of giving the director anything, he or she should not be given anything. What has been proposed is that the director, whether a woman or a man, should keep a little more of the money he has earned himself, and I have no problem with that. Mr. Nor was Bjarne Laustsen a problem with just a few years ago, or was it one of the proposals in which Mr Laustsen was present. Bjarne Laustsen voted against his own party? I do not remember that, but the Social Democrats certainly had no problem with it. It was the one element of the social democracy's tax reform, namely raising the top tax limit, which contributed most to increasing employment. And when we talk about what results were achieved, I never hear the Social Democrats say that the contribution to increasing employment, which came from raising the top tax limit, will not count. That is something you happily count on. So, yes, I think it's hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151638	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151641	I actually think it's a pretty simple question. Now I haven't watched these budget debates quite as many years as the previous one asks, but anyway: well, I haven't seen before that there's just a black box where there's 5.25 billion. kr., and then there's nothing about the contents. In fact, I think it is appropriate and appropriate to ask the question in this Chamber: what does it cover? It is, of course, an amount equivalent to ten times the ceiling on cash benefits, for example, but it may well be that it is not at all what is meant to be who knows? That is not in the plan, it is not in the proposal. So somewhere it is perfectly reasonable to ask when it is the case that we have a first reading of a financial bill where there is just a black box with 5.25 billion. kr., like everything else equal is a gigantic amount. So, couldn't we get a little more information about what kind of money that is? If this is going to look like something where we are dealing with the things that are going to have an effect on society at some point, then it is reasonable that we should have some knowledge of what is actually being proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151744	Well, I welcome the great interest in the proposal. The Minister for Finance will have to go on later, but I think I can guarantee that there will not be a single initiative that is not fully funded. There is not a single initiative that is not fully funded. And there it is quite normal that when you go into a negotiation process, you sit with the people you negotiate with, and then you find funding for what you can agree on. But no policy will be implemented that will not be fully funded.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151823	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151824	That's not what I said either. I was just asking how you were going to find the 5.25 billion. kr. Because when we negotiate finance law, it is actually usually the case that a fairly detailed catalogue of how we intend to finance things has been presented, and the government has not done so this time. I didn't say anything about whether there was funding or not. But it is an amount equivalent to ten times the ceiling on cash benefits, that is to say, just as such a black box about some reforms that you are going to make and which are going to give this very large amount of money. I think it is actually fair that we should somehow come up with some hints about what we are imagining or what is inside that black box that we cannot know about. So the question was not really whether the money was not there or not there was funding, but rather: what is it that they are being financed by? Well, we've just had quite a while now, when we've been dealing with the consequences of the other reforms that the government has made. After all, it is very nice that we have debates here in Things about the policy being put forward that we will then have some idea of what has actually been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151924	A big amount? That's yes, which is less than 5% of total public expenditure, so I guess it's a small amount. But things are being financed. Last year the Social Democratic Party also made an agreement with the government on taxes, where an agreement was signed saying: we promise to find funding. And we have done so this year. We said that we would implement it and that we would find the funding later when we had to vote in favour of the proposals. This has happened before, it is happening again and no policy will be implemented without funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907151959	Thank you. And the last question in this case is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152004	Thank you. I can see that we have a rapporteur who is in a hopla, and I can understand that, because a more crooked financial bill still needs to be looked for quite a long time. That is why I would also like to ask about the latest financial law, where it was an ultimate demand from the Liberal Alliance that this top tax credit should be granted at 5%. All the way up. Can the rapporteur not confirm that the proposal that is on the table in fact provides a greater tax relief for the top tax payers who are so concerned by the rapporteur than the ultimate demand that was made last year? So this really gives a greater top tax relief to the top tax payer than what you had as the ultimate demand last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152102	I am now discussing with the chairman of the Danish Parliament's Tax Committee, who then begins to call other taxes something they are not. So, the ceiling on the employment allowance is not a top tax, we are not discussing top tax. I can see that it is such a smart jargon that the Social Democratic Party would like to get into, because the top tax now is just a few years after you pulled lots of people out of the top tax. But what has been put forward is not top tax relief. That is to remove the ceiling on the employment allowance. And the ceiling on the employment allowance is therefore set against average incomes for people in the labour market, so it is primarily people with ordinary incomes, i.e. incomes above DKr 350,000, who will benefit mostly from the removal of the ceiling. Then Social Democracy can talk about the 1,000 richest Danes, but what does it matter to real people in the real world that Social Democracy will use this debate to talk about 0.017%. of the Danish population? Frankly, I do not think it is serious, given that we actually have some real problems we want to solve.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152219	There are a great many problems we would like to solve, and we see this very differently in the two parties. Social democracy will spend money on welfare because it is under pressure. But I really think that the question I asked was relatively simple. It is true that we are discussing a lot of taxes, including in the Tax Committee. Now the rapporteur said before that the calculations from the AE had not been seen, but I assume that the calculations on the financial bill itself have been seen, and when we talk about the top tax payer, the rapporteur must be able to confirm that the top tax payer is getting a big profit from the proposal that lies. Frankly, I thought that was something that LA would be happy about and that was why the rapporteur was in such a good mood. But apparently it is not, or how are we to understand it? Can't we get an answer to the question instead of the limbo back and forth?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152304	With regard to the Economic Secretariat of the Social Democratic Party, also called the AE, the Trade and Industry Council of the Workers' Movement, where Henrik Sass Larsen is sitting with and where Mette Frederiksen is sitting with, it is not a think tank that I take particularly seriously. It's not that there's no good people over there in the AE, but don't make it like it's some neutral think tank. It's not. Mette Frederiksen is a member of the Trade Council of the Workers' Movement. However, it is absolutely right that, when the ceiling on the employment allowance is removed, some of them, of course, also pay top taxes that benefit from it. And the majority of top tax payers are people with very common types of jobs. That's still the way it is, and yes, they'll keep more of their own money. This increases employment very, very much, and we need it in Denmark. We need to increase employment. The Social Democrats thought so a few years ago, when they did the same thing, when they pulled people out of the top tax. Then it was the right thing to do, and now it's a terrible thing to do. The citizens of Denmark must then think their own: can we expect what the Social Democrats say in opposition to be the same as the Social Democrats do in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152424	Thank you. There are still people who would like to ask, but unfortunately there is no more time in this round, so we thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur and move on to the next one, and that is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907152442	Thank you for that, President. I have been very excited to be standing here today discussing the government's financial bill. In fact, I do so every year because I think that the debate in this Chamber reveals where the parties are and what the government wants with its power. So I think that the debate on Finance Law offers the opportunity to debate in a slightly different way than we often see in concrete legislative proposals and concrete resolutions. What it also gives me, of course, is to tell me what the alternative would do if it were us who sat and had the government's responsibility. It is, of course, the case that we can actually find answers to this in the financial proposals we made last year. After all, in our motion for a resolution for a better society, we propose, first and foremost, a redistribution of some 120 billion. kr., which we want to go from black to green, from rich to poor and from individual to community. We want to see, among other things. to invest over 28 billion. kr. in green conversion, 16 billion. kr. in a better education system and 23 billion. kr. in a better and more equal society. And if it were up to us... if the Alternative had the keys to the Prime Minister's Office... then we would be the first to increase the climate, environment and nature budgets considerably. We'd actually spend 10 billion. kr. extra on climate assistance for the world's poorest. And then we would abolish the tax on electric cars and we would invest seriously in nature, ecology and renewable energy. We would do so for the simple reason that the climate crisis poses the sovereign greatest threat to the planet and all of us living on it, and because it will be a bottom-up task for all of us to contribute to the provision of a healthy and viable planet to our children and grandchildren. Nor should there be any doubt that if the alternative were to be set, we would like to roll back the progress reform. It had to be torn over so that the students instead had peace and peace and time to train. And then we'd spend 800 million. kr. to strengthen vocational education and training, because Denmark needs smart heads and hands to build the society of the future. Then, of course, an alternative financial law must also focus on reducing inequality. This could be done by introducing a tax on financial transactions, lowering the tax on the lowest income from work and rolling back the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration allowance. Of course it costs money, but fortunately Denmark is one of the richest societies in the world, and we can afford to give a little more to those who already have the least. In fact, it only requires political priority, and we do so in the alternative. Of course, when we proposed these things last year, this is linked to the fact that the alternative's vision is to create a sustainable society. We want a greener, more democratic and more equal society. It must be a society in which we all have the opportunity to create a good life and where we have the opportunity to enter into meaningful communities, where we, for example, have the opportunity to build a good life. has a public law that allows people to look over their shoulders on both good and bad days and where we see nature not as our property but as our responsibility. And where we ensure that there are always positive figures below the green, social and economic bottom line, so that growth and prosperity are not created at the expense of people and the environment. The principle of the three bottom lines is one of the things the alternative has worked a great deal to qualify in the last year, and fortunately we are not alone in that ambition. Both the IMF, the World Bank, the UN, the EU and the OECD are currently engaged in creating new models and methods that include both human and environmental values in progress reports. When they are, it is because, like us, they have realised that there are limits to economic growth. For too long economic progress has served as the crux of politicians' governance of the country. This means that the parties' plans and the Ministry's models are largely focused on strengthening the economy and that the desire to increase economic space all too often weighs more heavily than the desire to secure the ecological space of the planet. This also means that far too many citizens are being pushed across their borders every day, pressured to study more quickly, pressured to work more and pressured to retire later. We would like to help reverse this trend in the alternative, but this requires a showdown of the way in which social development is normally assessed and evaluated. So while the government wants to drop the green national accounts and focus even more closely on the economic bottom line, the alternative instead proposes that Denmark introduce a new accounting system that operates with both an economic, a social and a green bottom line. The idea of operating with three bottom lines is actually well tested, we just have to turn to the big business. Among other things: Novo Nordisk belongs to the pioneers and is one of the sources of inspiration for the alternative's proposal. The results from this are so convincing that it is only natural to raise the idea of three bottom lines from company level to national level, because if Novo Nordisk can, of course Denmark can also. By introducing three bottom lines, we can get a much more nuanced picture of whether developments are on the right track. For example, I have. Difficult to understand that the Alternative Climate Rapporteur in 2017 still needs to demand the CO2 accounts for the government's plans and financial bill proposals. This account should, of course, be part of the very premise we have for the debate here today. If I look at the government's proposals from the past week, then it exhibits very well why we need to measure on three bottom lines and not just one. For the government's proposals mainly mean three things: economic growth will certainly increase, but inequality and CO2 And several government ministers have openly and honestly explained that government policy clearly takes account of the richest in society and that inequality will increase as a result, partly because of tax reliefs in the tax proposal and partly because of the decision that it is again those who already have the least, for example. the early retirement pensionist, the cash benefit recipient and the refugee, who has to pay the price for those who already have the most. And we are critical of that development in the Alternative, to say the least, but it is not new. Since 2002, the richest Danes have become richer, while the poorest Danes have become poorer. For 15 years the difference has only increased, and with the government's proposal it is getting even bigger. I know that we have a bourgeois government and that this always involves the risk that the difference between rich and poor will increase. Nevertheless, I have to say that I am surprised that one day the government can find 23 billion without problems. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. In fact, there are a number of things that puzzle me about the government's proposal, and that is probably not so strange in that we belong to different parties, but just take the funding, which once again has to come from the transfer income. Yeah, maybe it's not that surprising. But where I think I might find something that should be surprising, including in the government's own optics, is that it is now going to introduce user fees for Danish teaching. I don't understand. This proposal comes from a government which, at the same time, has an ambition that foreigners should learn more quickly Danish because they can get to work more quickly; an ambition that I share. And I just don't think that's connected at all. Nor does it when the government suddenly proposes to cut a billion on vocational training. How, though, can the government propose this when both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education have repeatedly sought more quality in vocational training? And then the last thing that has also been mentioned today, namely VAT compensation, which will be removed from voluntary organisations. After all, the government agrees with the alternative that civil society is a major force in our country, and so far I have seen that the government wanted to strengthen civil society. In the past, the government has rejected any criticism that its policy is slowing down the green transition. And when the alternative has previously criticised the fact that the government, supported by parts of the opposition, has abolished the PSO tax, given new tax rebates to oil companies and removed the tax on electric cars, then the government has always replied that it would maintain green ambitions. And here I have to say that it is difficult to take the words of the government seriously when it uses surgical precision to steer around the climate area. It is fine that a few million people are investing in coastal protection, but it is not much, and it does not count much in the overall climate accounting, a climate accounting that goes into minus because the government, you might say, rounds up public transport for 2 billion. kr., relaxes speed limits, builds several highways and lowers registration fees on petrol and diesel cars. There is simply a need for a change of course. We must recognise that it requires billion-dollar investment, and it requires new policies, it requires the Paris Agreement to be translated into Danish policy, and it requires that we better balance our society and not as a competition with nature, environment, climate and wildlife. And then two words at the end: praise too. I think it is very good to have the social card for vulnerable citizens who provide vulnerable citizens, for example. homeless, opportunity to take small jobs without having to offset their benefits. I think that is an excellent idea. Also praised to the Minister for Industry for the initiative on the entrepreneurship field. I am pleased that some of the proposals we have also had on investor deductions and lowering the minimum limit on when to invest your pension funds in an entrepreneurial business are being implemented or proposed. I would like to commend the government for this and we would very much like to take part in the debate on these parts of the draft budget. I guess I went a little over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153559	Thank you. And there are brief remarks. The first question is Mr. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153606	I would then like to take up the positive thread and thank you for that, because I think we should spend the day on that too today. Of course, we split up according to observations, and we do that in different parties, but the Finance Act is just one whole. There may be different areas of priority, and that is how it should be, but I would like to take up some of the points that I know the alternative, and hence Mrs Josephine Fock too, places emphasis on, so just to outline that, after all, things are not going so badly with regard to some of the agendas. This applies, for example, to ecology. We're one of the most ecological people in the world. I think it's about 10%. of the total organic food sales. I guess that's not so crazy. I am also very concerned about the alternative, and yesterday or the day before yesterday it was a statement that shows that we are actually number one in the world compared to the efficiency and quality of our development assistance. I guess it's not so bad either. In relation to how just we are it is something that has also been the subject of discussion today........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After all, we are a pioneer country, regardless of the level of ambition of CO2 and we are one of the most innovative countries in the world, including the elements that Mrs Josephine Fock mentions here at the end. So I also think we can find each other on those agendas and actually think that things can go quite well with regard to some of the things that I also know the alternative places emphasis on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153736	I mean, I totally agree. We are a very good country, we are a very safe country and we are a very equal country. But basically, we and I are of the opinion that we should continue to be. We must be a pioneer country and we must continue to be a pioneer country. In other words, when we talk about development aid, it is no use cutting it down. We must ensure that a great deal of money is sent to development aid. We don't need them at home for example. refugees; it is also a discussion that we have had. In relation to the ecological aspect, I would like to ask: why is it then that we do not do more to promote, for example, that there should be an environmental impact assessment? Is organic farming coming? We know that it is ecology that is in total productivity growth ■ some of what the Left also tends to place emphasis on. As far as equality is concerned, we know that we are an equal country, yes, but it is going the wrong way, and it has done so for the last ten years at least. We must remember, I think, that we should not rest on the laurels, because suddenly we are no longer a pioneer country; then we are no longer so equal, and then we do not have the muscles and the capacity for innovation and education in the whole of the country to be able to continue this development and be a driving force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153852	I fully agree with Mrs Josephine Fock that we should not rest on the laurels. It was, in fact, just an emphasis or a desire to give a picture of the fact that, despite our disagreements, or whatever we might call it, about the overall financial law and priorities around, there are actually quite a few of these very central areas, which, as I said, I also know that the alternative places great emphasis on where things are actually going very well. Various measures have been taken and, of course, we must continue to work on them. So it was just to say that it is not the case that aid for developing countries, for example, is not going well. So it was yesterday or the day before yesterday that we got the latest inventory, where we are actually number one in the world. So in this way there is also momentum in relation to some of these agendas, which the alternative places high emphasis on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907153934	To the end, as far as I remember, we are one of the countries that uses the most internally. In Denmark, at least, we spend more money on our own refugees than we send out. So we have to remember the thing about where it is we are using the funds. At least in our optics, it is very important that we both send a great deal of money for development aid and that we spend a great deal of money at home to help with the refugee situation. And now I do not actually remember the second question asked by the rapporteur. But what I just want to say again is that we simply do not need to rest on the laurels. There is no point in thinking that we can just lie down and say that things are going really well now. We gotta get in the shoes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154018	The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154019	Thank you for a good speech with many good and important points, which emphasise that on long stretches we agree on incredibly many things in the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. I have a question for the draft budget that you have presented. What I would like to ask a little is the distribution effect of the draft budget. Some figures have come to the Finance Committee here at the end of August, which shows the effect it has on different family types. There you can see that a single recipient of benefit without children in a rental residence will thus receive a lump sum of DKr 1,200. less than today. You can also see that the executive family with two children will also get something smaller, but with the tax effect of what is being proposed, you will give you what to say, tax discount of DKK 4,800, while the single benefit recipient without children in a rental home will get only DKK 700. So there are some imbalances in the proposal that has been presented. Do you have any discussions about whether this might give rise to some adjustments to the draft budget you have presented, or what kind of discussions do you have about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154150	Of course we do. But when I look at the answer we have received from the Ministry of Finance, there are some things that puzzle me enormously. For example: After all, the Ministry of Finance has not taken into account the consumption effects of raising taxes. The Ministry of Finance sometimes does that even when they do some things. If, for example, they do: Touching taxes, it gives a change in behaviour in consumption. If you do something more expensive, people buy a little less of it. That is, for example, the case. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's what we're wondering. It also surprises us that, for example, At the same time, the reduction of VAT on fruit and vegetables should give rise to higher taxes. Well, there are some things in this answer that we're going to dive into before we like to say, "Oh, we think we're going in and we're going to change that." But that is one of the things we are looking at very carefully, because we would like to make a financial bill that has a social sustainability, so that it should not hit them with the lowest incomes, but rather those with the highest incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154300	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154302	When we talk about those with the lowest incomes and look at the financial bill that you are presenting, I would say that something is missing about the pensioners. Because there are, for example, the removal of the ceiling on cash benefits, and it will benefit people who are currently on cash benefits. However, there are a large number of people who live on the pension from the basic amount of the pension, and they will not be accommodated with the changes and the things you propose in your draft Finance Act. Isn't it a little off that there is a large group of elderly people who have not been taken into account, while there are other groups that are taken into account in the draft budget from you?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154346	It is, of course, a priority on our part that we have chosen to focus on lowering the tax on the lowest labour income. Then we have doubled the green cheque, which also benefits pensioners with the lowest income. However, it is quite true that as such we have not focused on the pensioners. We have focused on the help recipients and the refugees and immigrants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154411	The next question is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154417	First of all, thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Now the rapporteur was kind enough to ask me to deepen the position of the Social Democratic Party in relation to the registration fee, and then I think it would actually be appropriate to ask the rapporteur to say something further about how the alternative looks at the issue of registration fees, also because I can look at the social media, on Twitter, that the alternative has declared itself ready to enter into negotiations on the proposal on technical charges.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154455	Thank you for the question. It is quite clear that the alternative very much welcomes the fact that the Danish People's Party has been out to mark that they would like to see a tax change in relation to looking at the environmental part and the safety part in the cars. So that's how we immediately imagine it. And that is where we are very close to, for example. The environmental think tank CONCITO, which says that these are the technical things to look at in the car, so that those cars that are most environmentally friendly must also have the lower taxes, whereas others, on the other hand, must have the higher taxes, and therefore also the safety and maintenance aspects in relation to how to fix a charging system. So we very much hope that we will also be invited to negotiations in order to discuss a much more environmental registration fee for cars.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154546	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154547	In addition, I just have this: there will also be environmentally friendly cars, which are relatively expensive. Well, you can easily make a sports car like a hybrid, or whatever you might find at once in the future. So is it merely technical, or has the alternative also considered that there may be elements that very expensive cars must not be significantly cheaper than now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154618	We have not discussed that part in our group yet, so I cannot be completely clear about it. But should the more expensive car still be more expensive, or how and how? There, I think, we are very, very high on the environmental aspect in the alternative. Let me answer that. So it will be the environmental part that, I think, will end up being the determining factor for us. However, as I said, I lack such final clarification in the group, so I cannot answer 100% of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154656	The next question is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154700	Thank you. I would like to congratulate the alternative for putting forward a specific financial bill last year, which is the same as it is supposed to be this year. But it looks somewhat different from what the Social Democratic Party has put forward here today, and it is assumed that the alternative will be part of the red bloc after a forthcoming election. That is why I shall try to hear the rapporteur of the alternative: if it comes to power, if it is to be supported, if it is to be supported, for example, by a social democratic government. Some of the things you have in your financial law game?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154742	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154743	After all, I have read the draft budget of the Social Democratic Party, and I think it has many good tactics, and I also praised the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party for that. It is clear that it is no secret that the green watchman is really, really high among us, and increased equality is very high among us, and fortunately I can see that the Social Democrats in their proposals have shared in these areas, which are also important to us. So we have to enter into a dialogue on that. But it is clear that we do not have identical financial legislation. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154818	No, and some of what the Social Democratic Party has not reported very clearly is, of course, in relation to the modern ceiling on cash aid and the benefits of integration, and this is a place that I suppose the alternative has a very clear position on. Therefore, a little like I asked Enhedslisten, I will also ask the alternative:
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154840	It is clear that the areas mentioned by the rapporteur are really, really important to us, and we have of course asked the Social Democrats. And the Social Democrats' answer is that if there is an economy for it, then they want to. We think that there is an economy for it now, and that is also why we are punking the current government a little in order for them to retain them. So it is clear that we will play it into the negotiations. That would be important to us. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154905	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907154910	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good speech by the rapporteur, among others. highlighted the need for sustainable conversion. I must say that I generally appreciate the cooperation we have between the Enhedslisten and the Alternative very much. It is both in everyday life and when, hopefully, we get a new majority after the forthcoming elections. I think we can make a big difference there. But I would like to follow up on the question that Mr. Rune Lund put forward an alternative proposal for tax reform. So why is it that you choose to increase the employment allowance rather than the personal allowance? And I ask because a great many tax concessions have been given to people at work, and not least in recent years to people at work with a very high income, whereas, for example, the pensioners have not received anything. And it is people who have made a lot of effort and worked their entire lives, and many of them really do not have much money. So wouldn't it be fair to have them in a tax venture as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155007	Yeah, that's easy for you to say. And what we focused on when we discussed this was that we wanted to roll back the savings that came in relation to the 225-hour rule, the integration benefit and the cash benefits ceiling. This was one of our priorities in this context in relation to people outside the labour market. At the same time, we would also like to give priority to those people who go to work and earn the least, in other words that they could also receive tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155040	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155041	Thank you for that, President. It is quite fair to prioritise, but it is just one thing that creates very great inequality in our society, that is to say that we have a situation where some people have very little money, not least after working hard through life and where you now have a retirement pension. It is fair enough that this is the policy of the Alternative, but I would urge you to consider whether it is not also fair to include people on transfer incomes, so that we can sort of close some of the huge gap that unfortunately grows and grows, that is, the gap between people in employment and outside employment. So if you want to cooperate with Enhedslisten about it, I think we could have a good collaboration. But that is also fair enough if you do not choose to do so, and then we just have a disagreement there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155132	Thanks for inviting me. Now, of course, our draft budget is not static, and we are, as it were, already sitting here and wishing to try to launch a new financial bill in the next few months, and that too will be a priority for us. I think that, in relation to the alternative, we should remember that we have the green agenda as an absolute leader, and then we have the equality agenda afterwards. And there we have what you mention as an element that we will also look at if to be taken with there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155205	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155209	Thank you. I would like to ask a little about the alternative's plan for a 30-hour week, which I assume is still the policy of the alternative. There have been slightly different calculations on how much it will cost. The Treasury says 130 billion. kr., and Kraka has said 270 billion. kr. Then I just want to ask where that money's coming from. Because there are quite large amounts of money here, so where should we cut if we are going to cut down on a 30-hour week?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155241	After the figures mentioned by the rapporteur, there have been new figures showing that these are considerably lower amounts. We say, as we have always said, that this is something that the social partners must negotiate. And the way things are going is to say that economic growth, which is in society, is to convert to freedom. So that's what can pay for the 30-hour week. It should not then be introduced tomorrow, but in the long term, and we have said between 10 and 15 years. There are many good examples that productivity has actually increased where a 30-hour week has been introduced. You can, for example. see it in some private companies in Sweden, and now there are also several companies here in Denmark that have begun to convert to a 30-hour week and actually can see that, in addition to increasing productivity, which can be an independent goal, so that in fact also increases the employee's job satisfaction and gives a lower sick absence. So, again, it is a very good example that you cannot just make it up to the economy. One also has to look at whether it provides an improved working environment and better, what to say, prosperity or well-being for the people who meet at work etc. So I am not so worried about it, rather, on the contrary, because I think that is the way we should go if we look at the future labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155358	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155400	Then I would like to ask two questions. Is it then the case that the alternative will not in any way take political initiative on this if it is entirely up to the social partners? For then it may lose its relevance as a political proposal if the alternative does not want to do anything to force it through. The second thing is, if I understand the answer from Mrs Josephine Fock correctly, that future productivity increases should not be used to make us richer, but that we should work less. And that means that in future we should not be a more prosperous country, that is to say we should not have a higher GDP than today, that we should not be able to afford more of what is called welfare on the left and that the Danes should not have a higher amount of money available. Over how many decades to come we shall not become richer, and why should we not? It would be the first time in the history of the world. Have we reached the top yet? Can we not and should we not have more prosperity in our country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155456	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155457	First of all, I would like to say about the fact that we have always said that it must be the social partners. We have just told the social partners that we think they should start discussing this proposal. Because we can see that in the future it will be in the labour market with robotics etc. and the increased amounts of stress be a very good idea to discuss lower working hours. So that's the short answer to it. I would also say that, in relation to the issue of higher GDP, the alternative seems that we are rich enough as it is now. And in relation to the increase in GDP, it seems that the rapporteur at least believes that it can continue steeply forever. But we can now clearly see that it cannot, because at the moment it is happening at the expense of the environment and people. And our 30-hour working week must be seen in relation to the fact that you also have to look at how we feel as people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155551	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to make brief comments? Then we would like to thank the rapporteur of the alternative and move on to Mr Seligman's report. Martin Lidegaard, as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907155609	Thank you very much. When I was Minister for Foreign Affairs, I often got the question from my colleagues in Europe: what is actually the secret of the Danish model? Why are you the happiest people in the world? Why have you for 200 years been one of the richest, most equal and least corrupt societies in the world? And even with a strong green profile and strong gender equality. Of course, when you have got that question right many times, you start to ask yourself why it really is. Of course, there is not one answer to that. However, I think that one of the most important answers was what our wise ancestors did 203 years ago when the first primary school law was adopted in Denmark. It was a law that gave all children, girls and boys, rich and poor, in town and in the countryside not only a right but also a duty to go to school. And on top of that, we have built high schools, vocational schools, upper secondary schools, universities and research etc. etc. We are a country full of education. We have been for centuries and this is basically the background to both our well-being and well-developed democracy. It takes qualified entrepreneurs and employees to create prosperity and wealth, and it requires well-trained citizens to create a strong democracy. When I start with the historical review, it is of course due to the fact that the government is now again presenting a financial law that will make massive savings in our vocational schools, colleges, professional colleges and universities and research, etc. etc. In short, this is all that Denmark has to live on, and all the schools and institutions that are to give our children the opportunity to unfold their full potential in an increasingly demanding world, and which are to give Denmark democratic citizens and skilled employees to our businesses. I have really tried to think, but I find it difficult to think of a place or an area where saving makes less sense. The government does not make Denmark any bigger by saving on the future of our children. They make Denmark smaller and I have to say that, for the same reason, I am very sorry that the Social Democrats in their draft Finance Bill propose the same savings, apart from the vocational schools, in 2018. And I wonder why the green harvester continues year after year at a time when there has never been any more need for skilled labour. To this must be added the training ceiling, which is also being continued and which will make it difficult for people to improve their skills. This is one of the areas we focus on, but of course there are other reasons why Denmark has become the country we are, and here I am thinking of the whole green transition, because it is also something that enables us to give a Denmark further that is even better than what we got. After all, in these weeks and months and years, global warming is no longer a theory. We are experiencing hurricanes, floods, forest fires, droughts and other extreme weather conditions that tell us that global warming is no longer theory, but bloody seriousness, which goes only one way, and that is the wrong one. Denmark makes a difference today in that area and is a role model because we have prioritised green energy, which is not only cleaner, but has also proven to lead to cheaper market prices on electricity. It is a huge success that makes a big difference to the climate, because many are inspired by us, and it has also created 30,000 private jobs and a thundering export. It is therefore difficult to understand why the government cannot be made to give priority to the green transition. Why do we have to fight for the government to just keep to the agreements we have made and to continue Denmark's unique importance in the world in this area? We want the green transition, and this also applies to the transport of more electric cars, the continuation of the Train Fund and the green conversion of car taxes. We will also provide a sustainable Denmark. This also applies to our economy, because we need to invest more in our children and day care institutions, education and green conversion, and if we are to do so, there must also be money for it, and it must be ensured that the bill is left neither in the nursery nor in the classroom. We also need the people who have to do all these tasks. In fact, in the Radical Left, we fear that the Left and the other governing parties are repeating their serious mistakes from the 00s. Just as then, we are in the midst of a recovery and, as then, the Left is now proposing to throw more petrol on the fire by proposing major tax cuts, which are first and foremost financed by cutting training, raising state loans up to 2021 and reducing social benefits, which we do not quite know what is yet. And that is despite the fact that we have never actually had a better economy. We Radicals agree that tax cuts at work make sense, because, as I said, we lack labour and people who can get to grips with them. And as in the '00s, if we don't make sure we get more skilled labour, it could be a huge backlash. However, it does not help to ease the tax on labour if it is not socially balanced and if it is paid by cutting the training courses for skilled workers and by taking out more loans so that the economy risks being overheated. And it doesn't help at all to climb money away on free mobile phones or lower registration fees. The government spends 15 billion dollars. kr. in the field of tax relief, but the impact on the labour market is, in fact, less than that of the SR government and, as Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen then called a small, fine deal. The government is setting up a big, unfine deal. How about doing the right thing for Danish economy and for our children now? Let us abolish state debt as early as 2019 instead of 2021, and let us find money to invest in our future by making reforms rather than cutting our future. We want Danish companies to be allowed to employ the workforce they lack, both from Denmark and from abroad, and we want the elderly, who are not worn out, to work until they are 68 years old, from 2025 instead of 2030, as has already been agreed. Then there will be money as well as the people who need it so that we can do everything we want and that we owe our children. Denmark may be the world's best society, and it is the responsibility of every member of parliament that we remain so. We can pass on a better society to our children if we want, and the Radical Left will. However, we do not think that the government's draft budget is up to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160308	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are some questions. The first is from sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160318	Thank you, and thank you for a fine speech. One of the parts of the government's financial bill that we have not talked much about is the so-called business and growth initiative. In fact, it is primarily a tax proposal, because the elements of it, and those that cost money, are about lowering taxes, especially the tax on capital income. This is done in a way that will undoubtedly be extremely socially biased. Those who get the big discounts are those who have really big returns on equity investments. So here we are also into something that is not just top tax relief in disguise, but something that is even more crooked than a lowering of the top tax. So my question is actually: how do the Radicals view the government's proposal for a share savings account with a ceiling of 1⁄2 million? kr., and how do the Radicals feel about raising the progression limit, so that you pay the top tax, if I may say so, on share incomes, where you want to raise the limit from DKK 50,000. $100,000.? Both things are something that will undoubtedly be an extreme social distortion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160440	We in the radical group have not been through the whole package yet and have taken a concrete stand on the individual elements. But I think that, overall, we are relatively positive about this. And it is, of course, because we in the Radical Left believe that it is also part of passing on a sustainable Denmark in every sense that we are making sure that we strengthen the entrepreneurship of Denmark and the individual Dane's ability also to invest in unquoted companies, which is also part of the playout. 100 million have also been added. kr. We have a number of other initiatives which we really think are sensible. We do not think it is a shame or a bad idea to give relief to business if it is something we think can give more work and a greater growth in the economy, which in turn is the prerequisite for investing in both the green transition and for all Danes to get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160533	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160536	But, in fact, this is not really a matter of facilitating business. This is a relief to some people who buy shares. And if we look at the stock savings account, it's only for quoted shares. And the vast majority of companies that are on the stock market right now are not out to find capital on the contrary. They buy up shares, which means that the shares that are bought are some that are bought by other shareholders. It does not give any capital to entrepreneurs at all. Looking at the progression limit, I do not see how this should have a major impact on entrepreneurship either. I believe that there are also some elements in this proposal which have not been completely missed if they can be properly funded. The entrepreneurial allowance could be an example if you could finance it. But these elements, those which are really heavy in economic terms, are they something that the Radicals can support? And how does this relate to the rapporteur's many fine views that there should be a social balance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160637	Today the situation is that if you are an ordinary Dane with an ordinary income and you want to invest your money in something, that is to say you have money left to invest in something that you can get something out of, then you can either invest in a larger pension, you can invest in buying real estate, you can invest in a large number of areas. One of the things that it actually pays to invest in is stocks. Of course, one might ask oneself: do we have the right balance between what it pays to invest in? And when I say that we have not taken a final position on this particular proposal in the radical group, it is because we are digging into it a little. Because we could imagine that if you are in a situation where it is better to invest your money in, I had almost said barren bricks, rather than in companies that create jobs, then it may well be worthwhile to get your balance up to what it pays to invest in and not invest in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160731	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160736	Thank you. Sir. Martin Lidegaard talks about social balance, and now we have to understand that this is a social imbalance. And I find it a little difficult that people are shooting at others and saying that what we want to do is not socially balanced. And the reason I say that is that the Radical Left voted to reduce the top tax by six percentage points, which I do not think is socially unbalanced. We have been discussing five percentage points for a long time now, and we are not discussing this anymore. I did not hear the Radicals so much in that debate. But the Radicals actually chose to reduce the top tax by six percentage points. It was not socially unbalanced, one had to understand. Then there is talk of the registration fee. The second most effective tool in relation to the supply of labour after raising the top tax limit is to lower registration fees. And in terms of raising the top tax limit, 20% comes. the increase in labour supply, when the registration fee is reduced, from what is called the participation effect. It therefore moves people from transfer to the labour market. It is one of the most socially balanced things that exists. It reduces inequality ten times less to lower registration tax than to raise the top tax limit. Then we could not just have a proper debate where we President Yes, thank you!), which would like to reduce the registration fee, is not told that it is socially unbalanced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907160906	When we find the present proposal socially unbalanced, it is not because we do not want to reduce the tax for all Danes. We do. We went to the polls, and that was also in our old tax reform. However, what the government is proposing is to bring forward our old reform, but only the part that gives top tax reliefs - not the rest, which is specifically aimed at getting more people into the labour market. That has not been financed. It is true that we have proposed and also implemented top tax incentives, but we have always done so in packages where significantly more money was spent on lightening the tax at the bottom. And that is the balance that we consider to be lacking. And then we think that funding is antisocial. In relation to the registration fee, and this is an exciting discussion, I think it is • I would venture to claim that all the effects which Mr. Joachim B. Olsen now lists, would not be less if a relief were made, which at the same time took into account the fact that the tax on the most environmentally harmful cars was, if I may say so, reduced or even set up, whereas the environmentally friendly cars, for example. electric cars, the registration fee was reduced. Why not pursue that principle if you are finally going to reduce the registration fee?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161013	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161016	Well, I don't have to know if the effects would be the same if you made a technically based tax. But what I know is that the very, very expensive cars will be much, much cheaper • much, much cheaper • than if you just lower the registration fee, whereas the cars that people with ordinary incomes buy will be much more expensive. And I can't see that that's more socially fair if it's finally the jargon we're gonna stay in. Again I have to say that what we are doing must then understand is not social in balance, but the tax reform that Mr. Martin Lidegaard speaks about so much and is so proud of this, and I can understand that, because there were a great many good elements that we also voted for were funded by lower transfer income; the transfers were not going to increase so much. So you took something. I think that was sensible because the transfer income was very high President Yes, thank you!), but we didn't take something. So why are our social imbalances while yours are socially balanced when we do the same?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161113	Before the rapporteur has the floor, I would just like to remind him that he has a question of one minute and then there is a half minute to the next question. You have to try to keep to that. Now it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161126	Well, having done one thing four years ago is not the same as making a copy-paste four years later is also sensible. Because it has already been financed at the same time. In addition, however, the government does not finance this proposal in a socially balanced way, if I may say so. Because you take the money from the education programmes, where you continue to bar up all the education programmes, and we regard that as antisocial Olsen is shaking his head) 2%. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. So you just can't talk yourself out of it and say you don't. That's what you do. In addition, the deficit on government finances will continue until 2021. There are only the years to come and the children to pay. We do not consider that to be very social either. And finally, you're gonna go without wanting to tell me where you're gonna take 5.5 billion. kr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think it is fair enough against this background to say that it is not socially balanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161228	Thank you! I remind you once again of time. There is a little too much time left with Question No. 2 - both the question and the answer. Now it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161243	Thanks for the speech. There were several things in it that we from the SF agree with, especially the great focus on education • we know that the Radicals care very much about the green transition. The government has been more than cryptic in terms of how to finance some of these many plans. There's been a huge calculation of over 5 billion. kr., but you won't really say where the money should come from. One of the things that has been going on in the past is looking at the SU. That is why, given that the rapporteur spends so much of his speaking time talking about education, and I fully agree with that, I would like to know whether it is something radicals could be involved in in a package, i.e. touching the SU in one way or another.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161343	We have no desire to cut the SU, nor will it be part of our financial law game. We do not think that this is where the money should be given priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161351	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161354	That was a very clear answer. Then I'll ask you something else. Now we have also discussed this with the government not having so much success in getting the registration fee down • it has DF made very clear. It is really nice for us who think that this is a disastrous way to go and that a much wiser and more comprehensive reform could be carried out. There has been a great deal of focus on such a technically based tax as per 1. car must promote what is most environmentally friendly and climate-friendly. However, is the rapporteur also prepared for us to have to look at the total emissions of CO2 because it is good enough if we get more environmentally sound cars, but if the total amount actually increases emissions, we are at least concerned about it by the SF. So we think we also need to look at the overall future emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161453	Yes, we are very much in agreement on that. That is also why the Radical Left is not going to propose any overall reduction in car taxes in Denmark, because it is very difficult to do so without increasing CO2 at the same time. We would really like to see this, and I did not have the opportunity to respond to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on a model in which, yes, the registration fee is significantly reduced, but then the green owner tax is set up, differentiated according to an environmental model. Then we also avoid some of the interaction effects that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned. This is also what both the automotive industry and the green think tank CONCITO and all sorts of others are proposing. That is the room to get both a revenue that allows us to use the money to lighten taxes at work, and a CO2 2 So I very much agree with that, and we will fight for that if we are invited to the negotiating table. Just as we will, of course, fight to ensure that the SU is not cut or, at least, cut less in the SU, if we are invited there, but we probably will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161551	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161556	I appreciate the fact that the Radicals are very concerned about research and education; I just think that we are painting a picture which is perhaps a little too black in relation to what the reality is. I looked up here yesterday that Denmark is number one in the world at least according to the University Newspaper in public funds for research. It's a statement from January of this year. And in relation to education, it is true that in 2008 27.4 billion were spent. kr. in upper secondary education, and in the Government's Finance Bill 34 billion will be spent. kr., i.e. an increase of about 7 billion. kr. So is it so bad about the cuts that are on education? Something else that I am burning almost even more to ask is that there is a large majority in favour of spending more money on defence. The Radicals are often included in the defence reconciliations at the moment at least. Are you radicals in on that? Because that's the way it goes. I know that the policy of the Radicals is probably not to spend more money on defence, but can the Radicals live with the fact that more money is being spent on defence and still participate in defence reconciliation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161702	In relation to education, I am fully aware that while driving the green harvester, i.e. a 2-percent saving per year. In addition to all training courses, including vocational training courses, some years ago, if not last year, an amount was also set aside to carry out the vocational school reform. And that's why the numbers that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov presents us here, the well bump a little bit against each other. But what you have to be aware of is that, as far as the basic benefit is concerned, Denmark's degree programmes will continue to be cut by 2%. a year, even if, due to exceptional situations around, extra pools are added to them, I am familiar with them. In relation to defence, I would say: yes, that is right. We would like to see an unchanged defence budget, also because there is growth in the public sector, and thus the sums we are spending on defence are also increasing. But we have also seen the writing on the wall, and we can see that there is a very broad majority in the Folketing that will increase the cost of defence. It should not in itself prevent us from participating in a defence settlement, if that increase does not run out of hand, and if, of course, it is the most important thing that the money is spent on something useful and not on symbolism policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161813	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161816	Well, that was very clear speech, and I really appreciate that. I can guarantee that none of us are going to spend money on something that is of no use.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161826	I think we'll have a discussion about that, I say with all due respect. As far as we are concerned, what is really calling for more funds at the moment is cyber defence, it is preparedness with more climate floods and terrorist preparedness, etc., and it is also a greater focus on preventive international efforts, and after we have been there with military interventions. This is at least one of our concerns, where I understand that the Conservatives want to do more at home with a desire for a new brigade and home territory, territorial defence, etc., in which we may have a little harder to see reason. So I am sure we will have a good, healthy discussion on those priorities, but we look forward to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161907	Thank you. And then it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907161912	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that I very much agree that it is quite wrong to make a green harvester saving on education, as the rapporteur also mentioned. I cannot help noticing that exactly the green harvesting savings in education were also part of the former government's financial laws which the Radicals were involved in proposing, and that it was in every finance law where Enhedslisten was involved that the Enhedslisten picked out these deteriorations in the course of the financial law negotiations. But that's not why I signed up on the list of speakers. What I wrote in favour of was that the rapporteur remarked earlier in the debate that he wanted to increase the employment allowance, because it should be worthwhile to work there should be a greater incentive for the unemployed to get a job. The difference between unemployment and work should be greater. That's why I'd really like to hear from Mr. Martin Lidegaard: Does Mr. Martin Lidegaard, that people are unemployed because it is not worthwhile to work? Well, sir. Martin Lidegaard seriously that people are in unemployment because they don't want to work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162026	No, I think that experience from, among other things. Sweden and Germany show that if you can get tax away from the lowest income from work, you can both increase the incentive, as Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen has mentioned, but perhaps you can also create some jobs that would not otherwise be there, not least in the services sector. And I just think it is much more sympathetic to do that by putting more money into the hands of those who then work than it is to punish those who are on transfer income very hard, as one such thing. Do in Germany. So we really think it's a quite gentle way to make it attractive both to take a job, but also to pay others, so that you can afford to pay people to help you at home to look after children and all that. So there's a double effect, we hope, in this. One is to increase the incentive for those who take up work, but the other is to create jobs that we may not have at all today because it is simply too expensive to buy work and services, among other things. Because the treasure is very high.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162129	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162132	Well, I'm asking because I think this is a very important debate. Everyone who I know, who is affected by unemployment, or has been, has been extremely sorry to be affected by unemployment; they have wanted to get a job. Well, as I see it, reality is that people really, really want to work. No one sits and deliberately does not want to work and only wants to take a job if you can earn a few hundred kroner more if some change in the employment allowance was made. So what I really would like to hear from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, is: Martin Lidegaard understand if there are some who are following this debate and who send five applications a day and get one rejection after the other who feel that it is distrust and disrespect when one suggests that they should not want to work because the people would get to work if there was a greater incentive? - Sir... Martin Lidegaard understand that there are some who are feeling a little stepped on in the debate that is going on? So one last question: does Mr. Mr Martin Lidegaard. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Martin Lidegaard on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162244	I know a lot of people who have been unemployed, and also a lot of people who have come to work, because fortunately we have carried out a great many reforms that have made it possible to get to work. And when you do this kind of reform, it's because you want to make it both attractive to take a job, but also create more jobs. It's not just one, it's the other. And that's why you can't just stand up and say it's disrespectful. It's actually the opposite. In contrast to Enhedslisten, we have had the respect that in the last 20 years, with changing governments, we have made reforms where more and more Danes have come into work. And that's what this is about. If you have doubts about the impact of our reforms, you should look at unemployment and employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162328	Thank you. And the next person to ask questions is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162334	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech, although of course we do not agree, but that might not have been expected either. I am therefore interested to hear what the rapporteur says about the social democracy initiative. After all, you are suggesting that there is no need for any labour market reforms at all in the future. Do you radicals agree with the Social Democrats on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162356	No, it can be said that we are rather a third place in terms of government and social democracy respectively. We agree with the Social Democrats that there is a need to raise our welfare, but we also agree with the government that there is also a need to make some tax cuts. We just want to fund both through reforms. There are two large packages that we are looking at when the rapporteur asks what we want to do. One concerns foreign labour. In other words, our companies are yelling and screaming to be able to hire the qualified employees needed to grow so that the total cake grows, you can say, so that we can pay both the one and the other. The second thing we have to look at is to ask those of our older people who can and are not worn out to start working a little earlier until they are 68 years old than what we have agreed. And we can keep up with the many more older people who are staying, and we can also afford to give some of the tax cuts on work that the government is proposing. So that is our best bet, and it is therefore, it can be said, a third place than the government and the social democracy respectively.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162510	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162513	But what is the position of the Radicals if there were to be elections and there was an opportunity to have a red government? What would the Radicals think of this, in other words also in relation to the things which the Social Democrats are proposing in their financial legislative proposals, which are still somewhat different from what the Radicals are playing out with here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162533	Then we will certainly take all our good policy under our arms, and then we will then negotiate a government basis, which hopefully has some solid radical fingerprints, including in the economic field. That's how you do things like that. The world could look different if the Left and the Radicals had a majority alone. It does not seem that way, at least not at first. But it is quite clear that it will of course be difficult to get all our policy through if we do not have 90 mandates, but we will get some of it through, I dare say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162603	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162613	I will stay on the same street, because, as I said to the Social Democrat rapporteur, I felt that way back to 2010. So, the Social Democrats said it was tax or welfare, and they thundered against tax cuts for then a year after the Finance Law debate in 2010 to enter into a government with the Radical Left and make tax reform with top tax reliefs. More hands had been said for warm welfare, and there were more educators, and so there were so many examples. So it is just that I ask when one remembers what was said and what happened when a government was included in which the Radicals and Social Democrats were involved: how much confidence can the Danes have in the Social Democratic Party when the Social Democrats say that there is no need for labour supply reforms in Denmark; that is the end, there should be no more of that? I just want to say that where is the Radical Left quite specific on this issue? Is there a need for more reforms that increase the supply of labour, or is everything good?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162709	If what is really being asked by the Left is whether there is a need to cut transfer income further, then I would say that this is not a radical policy. We do not see the need for this. It is, moreover, exactly as the wise men say, as we hear from all economic experts: there is no great need to cut further, for example. unemployment benefits or cash benefits or poverty benefits. The government has done more than enough there. That is not our policy either. But if we are talking about labour market reforms, which are about getting people to stay a little longer on the labour market, if they can, and thus also afford to give the elderly who cannot, and who are worn out, a little better opportunity to retire earlier, and to be able to increase our welfare and perhaps also have room for tax breaks, then the answer is: yes, we think so. It's a clear policy. Then I would say that it was not more than one year ago that a government member was shouting at top tax reliefs and had crawled reasonably high up in the tree, and many are mocking the Liberal Alliance for that. I think it is perfectly fair and healthy that all parties in this Parliament say what their policy is; present their policy. I have great respect for the policy of social democracy. They must have it. We have ours. That's what we're gonna vote on. We hope that we will have good President-in-Office of the Council. ) and then we sit down and negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162819	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162822	The debate with Radicals in a black tower may have had some bad experiences with it. However, I think it is positive to hear that the Radical Left is of the clear view that if we are to ensure that Denmark remains a rich and prosperous country, we have to look at how we make reforms that trim the Danish economy and ensure that there is the skilled labour that our companies demand so that we can maintain the recovery and ensure that there is prosperity that is the prerequisite for welfare. I am very pleased about that, and I would just hope to sit down with other parties as well. So I hope that we can agree that a message that there is no need for reform is bad for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907162910	We can quickly agree on that. And then I can't help but sign for mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen's kind words by saying that we then hope that it will also be reflected in the fact that we are invited to negotiate some of these things. I shall not hide the fact that part of what the government has put forward has not grown in our backyard, but some of the intentions have. If we now take that registration fee, which everyone has talked about a lot today, then it could well end up with a really sensible agreement. There is, in fact, a very broad majority in the Folketing for a change. I do not quite know where the Left is, but at least the Conservatives also want, I understand, a change in a more green direction, so that it gives the effects that the government wants. The whole opposition does, and so do we. So I just hope that we will then also be invited to some of the negotiations rather than the government sitting and fixing everything with the Danish People's Party. Because I am not quite sure that the Danish People's Party is entirely on the agenda that the Left has outlined here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163002	Thank you. Then we go straight back to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163008	I'd like to follow on from Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen's expectation of a possible other government, if it should happen that there should be a change of government or at least a red majority, say that it is at least a consolation, albeit a little comfort, that the Radicals will then be a form of bulwark. We know it from the last time. Then we heard of one plan after another, i.e. in 12 minutes and Fair Solution, and I don't know what, and as you know, it didn't happen. So we'll take sir. Martin Lidegaard's words at face value, i.e. that it will happen again if the accident should happen and there should be such negotiations. Well, to the question. Sir. Martin Lidegaard says that he would like to make reforms in various bottlings, among others. of tax, and that is fine, but also in relation to ensuring that more foreign labour comes to Denmark. I can see that as a matter of fact, but would it not be more sensible to focus on getting many of the Danes who are working today and outside the labour market • 700,000 or something of the order of magnitude • into the labour market and getting them started? Because it would be good for the economy as well as for the economy, and it might be just as important for those people. That would be the greatest social boost one could ever make. So should we not focus our energies there rather than opening up foreign labour, as we do to a large extent?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163115	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163118	I fully agree with Jacob Jensen on this point. And that is why we are also surprised that the government has chosen to speed up only that part of the reform of the previous government, which is about top tax, but not the part about the employment allowance at the bottom, which invites more Danes into the labour market. Why do you only want to lighten the top tax? Why is it that we do not want to pursue what is a major social effect? Let us speed it up. Why only speed up the other? That is exactly the way we should go, and we would very, very much like to go, and that is where we are a little critical of the government, namely that we do not want to do it with our reform, if that is the case. And by the way, I am just delighted with so much attention that the Left chooses to give the coming change of government. It's nice to talk it up. I'm looking forward to it, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163203	Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163207	Yeah, yeah, well, don't take the pleasures in advance. As you know, the joy of expectation is the greatest, as a wise man once said. But thank you for that answer. But that is precisely what we are also trying to put forward in order to ease the tax burden on work, that is to say, to focus on it and at the same time make it more attractive, that is to say, to increase the difference between being outside the labour market and in the labour market. So I expect Mr. Martin Lidegaard supports that part. I know that we have brought forward the part of the 2012 reform that has to do with the top tax, knowing that now Social Democracy is so vertical against the policy they themselves implemented at that time, but let it be. But Mr. Martin Lidegaard must then also acknowledge that we are putting a strong pressure on the low income from work, to ensure that it is better to work, because the way around as part of several other elements to make it more attractive for the Danish workforce, which is now outside, to come along and contribute positively, both socio-economically, but also, as such, and it is perhaps just as important, socially.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163306	I recognise this, and we have also expressed this when we have the opportunity to do so, that we support that part of the government's proposal, and we would like to take part in it. We have some challenges with funding, but that is often the case, and if we can look at it together, so that it does not have to be picked up in the nursery or in the classroom, then we are clearly in on it precisely because it has the social effect, as Mr. Jacob Jensen describes. So we are clearly in favour of that. I think we just have to recognise that the effect of the measures that are otherwise sensible is, of course, a reasonable long-term one. I mean, these things are something that takes a few years to get through, and companies' need for labour is actually starting to push on here and now, and that is why I think we are going to do both and. We need both more Danes, and we need to make it easier to take foreign labour into the very short lane.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163355	Thank you. Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163400	Thank you, President. I wasn't really going to ask a question, but I still think just on the basis of the very committed debate that has been during these brief comments on tax cuts and which it is clear that the Left in particular is very committed to the fact that I would like to hear Mr. Martin Lidegaard's assessment of the funding that the government is proposing in the tax proposal that comes, i.e. the room for manoeuvre and then an unspecified amount coming from, one can understand, among other things. transfer income, of 5,25 billion. kr. If sir... Martin Lidegaard had been in a government where funding had been assigned through room for manoeuvre and through non-specific savings on transfer income, would we have been able to expect it to have been called financially responsible and fully funded, or, if it had been a government that had a different color and all of this, would it have been called unfunded?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163521	I think it had been called both unfunded and irresponsible, and I fully agree. The financing that has been put forward or rather has not been put forward is not our cup of tea. That is also what I have said several times here. It's got to look different if we're gonna be in it, and it kind of freaks us out. Because we believe that we can find the means, both to increase the welfare that the Social Democrats want and to create more hands, and that is really what this is all about. It is no longer enough just to get the money; we also need to get the people who have to get to grips with it, both in the private and in the public sector. And there we think it might actually make sense to look at the tax instrument. But, of course, it must be properly funded, so it is neither too socially unbalanced nor leaves a bill for our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163604	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163607	Thank you for your clear statement. I agree with Mr. Martin Lidegaard's assessment of this is probably not surprising. Martin Lidegaard said it was both financially irresponsible and unfunded. However, following on from this, one can only be tempted to ask whether it is not reasonable for the present government to be measured on exactly the same scale as the previously purely left-wing government. Well, I remember at least a finance minister who sat until recently and who had one mantra: where is the money to come from? Is it not very reasonable for the present government to be able to answer that question as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163651	Yeah, I'd say on that ball street, it's mainly those 5.5 billion. kr. I hope that we will be able to get some clarity about this soon. Yes, I have also grown up in an economic school where, I had almost said, you have to pay for the lunch that you would like to serve to the voters, and I do not quite feel that we have had a full financing of that lunch this time. It annoys me, and we'd like to find that funding. We also think we can do it properly, and we really think it is a good idea. But it is clear that if you insist that lunch be paid for by our children or by the education of our young people, it will not be with us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163732	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more questions now, so we go further in the rapporteur's line. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907163751	Thank you for the floor. I could use all my speaking time today to talk about the government's unsolidar and crooked budget proposals, or that it is cheating on the calculations that cover up the fact that it is of course the director who gets the most out of the government's overall plans, both in crowns and ears and relative in percentages. That is also the intention, because the plan is very much top tax relief through the back door. I could also talk about the government's success in making a so-called growth project of 2 billion. kr. without setting a penny off for education. On the contrary, re-prioritisation and other means of cutting around 1 billion. kr. in the field of education. Here I could repeat the question given to the government at the press conference: where will you get mechanics for all your Lamborghini? Or I could talk about the government's plans leading to a rather marked increase in inequality, and that Løkkelogikken means 24,000 fewer public employees in 2025, although there are 165,000 more elderly and 56,000 more children. Even the best spin doctor can't make it mean better or just unchanged welfare. Finally, I was also able to spend all my time raging over how hammeringly unambitious the government is on behalf of nature and the climate, and thus on behalf of all of us, because it is our future that is at stake. And just as poverty does not disappear because a poverty limit is removed, climate change does not disappear either, because the government is dropping the green national accounts that the SF proposed and got through in 2014. It got a few years to live before our black government has dropped to carry on with it. I could spend all my time talking about the government's coal-black, crooked, welfare-poor and child-free Finance Act, which, along with tax and business games, is sprinkled 23 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to insurance against civil liability in respect of the use of motor vehicles and their trailers. I would rather talk about what we could do about how we could secure our welfare for the future, ensure the green transition and use all our resources to ensure the future of our children, because they are the Denmark of the future to be a place where we take the lead in green jobs, sustainable cities, rural life and where the balancing principle is not just an accounting exercise, but is about better life, less stress, more tranquility, community, and where we do not consume more resources than the earth can manage where we promote green jobs and develop new solutions to climate change. SF has put forward a very concrete proposal on how the Finance Act could look if you just did not give tax relief. We could strengthen the environment, climate and nature through more research into the environment and energy, we could clean up the toxic deposits, we could invest in energy savings and secure more forest. At the same time, we could remove the cuts on DSB and we could continue the green national accounts so that we know the consequences of our policy. I have noticed that today the Prime Minister spoke at the Youth People's Assembly and said to the young people: you are the generation that is going to save the planet from a climate collapse. Dear Prime Minister, I think the young people have a legitimate expectation that you too will do something instead of tightening your ground for green action. We could drop the productivity requirement for hospitals as early as next year to ensure that hospitals can deliver better treatment and meet the deadlines for cancer treatment without wearing out the staff altogether, and then we propose in the SF to add 1.4 billion. kr. extra in addition to dropping the rigid productivity requirement. We could also address the issue of ensuring that there are enough adults for children in the day care institutions. Our goal is no more than three nursery children or six kindergarten children per year. adult. Nelson Mandela said a long time ago that there is nothing that can be a clearer revelation of the soul of a society than the way it treats its children. That is true, and that is why they should not be stowed together with too little adult contact for many hours every day. We could add 10%. More home helpers. This will make it possible to create permanent teams throughout home care and minimise the number of different faces that citizens need to see in their homes when they need home help. I know it from my own family, just as you probably do, i.e. how sorry it can be when a family member has to meet the 10th or 15th new home helper. That's why we need permanent teams in home care, and we've set aside money for that. We could also eliminate the new cuts in the education system, which the government is proposing for the so-called re-priority contribution, which is actually just cuts and the collapse of the 150 million pool. kr., which has strengthened vocational training over the past 2 years. How is it possible to cut it away when everyone knows that we lack unskilled and skilled workers and when there are still major problems in vocational training? Education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world. That's what Mandela said. We could drop the ceiling on cash benefits, 225-hour rule, integration benefits, all that creates poverty, not least child poverty. At the beginning of the year we received a letter here in the Danish Parliament from a large number of organizations, including the Children's Council, Save the Child, BUPL and Children's Conditions, which strongly warned against the consequences of government policy on children. Many of the families of children affected by poverty benefits have far less than what has been estimated to be an absolute minimum budget. It's not our assessment, it's the Rockwool Foundation's assessment. The warning of the enormous consequences for children must simply not be ignored. All that and more we can get by simply dropping government tax cuts. SF also has a savings proposal. We believe that too much money is spent on consultants. Many of the expensive reports that come out of it are often flawed or covered by a thin layer of varnish to legitimise government policy. The tasks could be solved to a greater extent by employees of the state administration, so that the knowledge being built up is internalised or in ordinary Danish, that we actually learn something from what, for example, is. happened in SKAT, ensuring that the skills and resources we need remain with us. The same applies to many of the Chamber Attorney's duties, which are being carried out far too expensively. SF proposes savings of a total of 500 million. kr. in 2018. For that money, a number of the cuts proposed by the government can be eliminated, among other things. non-profit-making associations and urban renewal. Overall, we are an incredibly rich country, but inequality is increasing and more are becoming incredibly rich, while others have far too little. Now the government will use our common savings to give even more to those who already have the most. We are a rich country, so why not use that wealth to ensure that all children have a good start in life, ensure proper care and care for our elderly, those who have contributed throughout a lifetime? Some of the elderly in our society have quite little. Maybe they never got on the free-value wave, maybe they were affected by disease, but the fact is that too many older people live their last year with very little to do good with. Why not secure our health care? After all, it is precisely a rich country that can invest in proper treatment for all citizens. Green conversion is not a fashion word; it is something that every country on the planet will have to conform to. We even have both a historical platform and the means to be at the forefront, and it is an investment that comes back many times. In fact, it is in the wind turbine industry that most jobs have been created since the turn of the century. It is also a rich country that has the easiest way to protect nature, animals, plants, streams and streams. The future of Denmark must be a place where few have too much and where fewer have too little; where it is better to work than to speculate or inherit; where we give a helping hand to those who do not have a job, instead of inculcating them; where the pattern of inequality is broken, so that there is no 13 years difference in living years between two neighbourhoods in Aalborg; where we organize our labour market so worn out and worn out people should not be dragged to conversations lying on a sickbed; and where we actually improve the welfare we know today. There's a difference between politics. As Hørup recommended • Share according to views and it is days like today when it becomes clear where each of us stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907164651	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907164657	Thanks for the speech. That was clear speech, one can say: we could do a lot of things; we are doing a lot of things; and what we are discussing here is, of course, what it is that must then be prioritised. There was something about how you could do a whole lot for the elderly, we could get some SOSU assistants that could be done for the children, the climate, the green transition, the hospitals there were a lot of things. It is no more than two years since there was another government. At first the SF was also part of the government, then the government was supported. Then there was also the opportunity to do some of these many, many things, but then they chose to go in a direction that was called relaxing the top tax, relaxing corporate tax and cutting down on cash benefits. What happened in those two years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907164745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907164749	Some of this, I think, is well known to Jacob Jensen, namely that it helped the SF not to sit in the government anymore. However, I simply do not think that picture is fair, because some of what happened in 2011 was that we first removed poverty benefits. That was one of the very first things we did. We made an energy reconciliation that ensured that Denmark became the world's greenest country, at least on paper, and that is what governments have been bound by since then. We have created a train fund, and we see today what can happen when there is a majority of the people who support such a thing. We've done a lot of things. So I do not think it is fair to say that the picture was only one way or the other. It is true that, with regard to the 2012 tax agreement, we in the SF felt that it was an equally legal mixed pleasure. But if you have to look at the job offer, and you talk so much about it, it actually gave a job offer of 16,000 people when we made it. The project you have made now provides a job offer of 1,500 people in 2020, and you spend 23 billion. kr. The difference is just so completely insane that so much money will be spent on so few jobs. And these aren't numbers I'm bringing. Well, these are the official numbers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907164919	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907164922	Yeah, but just as unfair, or whatever word you need, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen thinks the picture I'm drawing is where I say that the government then lowered the top tax and corporation tax to cut down on cash benefits. I'd say it's when Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen stands and says we're spending 23 billion. kr. and sprinkles them out to those who have the most, when the truth is that we have spent the whole morning discussing how much Annette from Brugsen in Køge should have in tax relief. I don't suppose she's one of the most allerallers. But let me just make a single quote to hear what happened from the SF's side. The quote is: the inequality will hardly diminish with the tax reform. In other words, the 2012 tax reform may lead to an increase in economic inequality. But I will not consider it a defeat if it happens to give hard-working, low-paid Danes more in the payroll. That was the party colleague Mr. Jesper Petersen, who spoke it. Is the SF still of the opinion that Mr. Did Jesper Petersen express himself at that time?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165021	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165024	Jesper Petersen is a social democrat today, and the discussion that was then was also relatively public, so I think Jacob Jensen knows that. There were many good things in the tax proposal that came then and in the tax reform that came. But there were also some things that went in the wrong direction, and we are at least trying to be very open about that that is what we think. I would also like to say that it is now the final remark that there are also some good things in what you have put forward. I think, for example, that perhaps you should have been even more ambitious in the area of taxation, because there are taxes today that all citizens pay, at least everyone who eats nuts and drinks coffee or tea. It is a relief, so to speak, to everyone who has a common consumption, and no one can really explain why we have such taxes. In fact, I think that some of the funds that have gone to some other things could have been moved over there, and it could have been said that we now need to have an even bigger tax recovery plan. Because it is a tax on, so to speak, the consumption of all ordinary people. So I just want to praise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165128	The next person to ask a question is sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165137	Just one comment: I am a little saddened when the SF's rapporteur comes to describe the supply of labour as jobs. Labour supply is not jobs. Labour supply is to put a few more people in line for some jobs that may come later. I don't think we should fall into that. When the reform, which SF unfortunately contributed to, increased the supply of work, it was because more was given to them at the top and took more from them at the bottom, and it is nothing to boast of. But that's not really what I wanted to ask. I would like to ask about the financial law negotiations where we also have to discuss research, that is, the research reserve, etc. etc. And there I know that we have a common interest and a great deal of concern in having a look at whether we can have some funds allocated to research into dynamic effects of public investment. Because we are in the bizarre situation of the Ministry of Finance refusing to listen to what the economic wise men say. They will not change their calculation models according to what the wise men say, so we also have dynamic effects of e.g. child care, health care and health and safety at work. The reason for this is that they say that we do not have evidence of this. They do not have that for the other dynamic effects they operate with, but leave it alone. If we're going to move on, it would be a good thing if we created that evidence. That's why I'm actually gonna just want to hear the answer if SF's in it. So far, the SF has been at the forefront of much of this, namely in terms of allocating funds in this area, so that we can get some more knowledge of how our economy really works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165322	As far as I remember now, I have also written the speech down, so I hope I have read it out too, I said that it was estimated that there would be a job offer of 16,000 with the Thorning Government reform and that there were 1,500 real jobs here, as the AE Council considered it. They looked at the work offer, and then they asked what it could really mean, because a lot of it cares that people will work a little longer. But we can have that discussion at another time. But I would also like to acknowledge that it is true that the debate often sounds as if if there is a job offer of 20 000 people, there are 20 000 people who are going to work. I mean, like it's one for one. I totally agree with that. In relation to the other, I would like to say that this is true. I thought it was a fantastic day in the Committee on Finance. Of course I had expected that we, who agree on the centre-left, supported it, but it was fantastic that DF also supported it, at least the report on the motion for a resolution tabled by the SF on dynamic effects. It was incredibly arrogant of the Minister of Finance just to reject that majority of the people. Not only was it a majority of the people, but it was also a clear recommendation from the economic wise men. We will, of course, pursue this with all our means and get it done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165446	Then we'll move on to the next one, and that's Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165456	Thank you for that, President. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen says that the reform that Helle Thorning-Schmidt did, which SF also helped to do, increased employment by 16,000 and compares it with this reform, which will then increase employment by 7,600. But the difference we see is because Helle Thorning-Schmidt, together with SF, did something about the top tax. That is what is really boning out, it is the element of Helle Thorning-Schmidt's tax reform that contributes most to increasing employment. At the same time, it was done that the employment allowance was increased at the bottom as much as DKK 350,000, where in this reform there is a focus on income up to DKK 207,000. That is why it does not increase employment very much. So, on the one hand, this government is being blamed for spending some money on lowering taxes when it does not increase employment as much, and on the other hand, the government is being blamed for increasing the disposable incomes of people with high incomes, because then the ceiling on the employment allowance is being removed, which is really what is boning out in this proposal in terms of increasing employment. So one boasts of one's own achievements, which came out, by doing some things for which one blames others, when they also want to do them. I think that's weird, to be honest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165632	I think sir... Joachim B. Olsen misunderstood me. There are a lot of things that we in the SF would like to do and which are calculated over in the Ministry of Finance not to want to provide any job offer, but we do it because it is the right thing to do. It can be anything, from better conditions for children, people with disabilities, etc. We do not worship the god called labour supply, we do not. We think it is very good if we make concrete policies that create real jobs for real people. My point was that when you always talk about this job offer, it's just weird that you spend so much money on something that doesn't meet what you always say is why you're put in the world, why you make politics, why you spend a lot of money that should have been spent on welfare. That is just why I mentioned that it is a little strange to spend so much money on something that on the long stretch provides a job offer of 7,600 people and by 2020 a job offer of 1,500 people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165732	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165735	7,600 jobs will be increased in the long term. But apparently there has been a misunderstanding. Yes, we think it is important to increase employment, to increase labour supply, because it is part of the equation in terms of increasing prosperity in this society. It is not only how much work is being done, but also how productive we are. So it is important to increase the supply of work. But we have always been honest that there are other things that are also important. It is also important to solve the interplay problems, the pension system, so that it pays people to save up for retirement; moreover, I have not noticed that the Social Democrats have set aside money in their plan that came today. There is not much labour supply in that, but we actually think it is important. We also think it is important that work is worthwhile, and that is why tax is reduced at the bottom for very small incomes; there is a negative supply of labour in that, but we still think it is important. So there are other things that are important to us than increasing the supply of labour, but it is also important, and we would like to do more of that, but there are those parties who did it themselves and took some effective tax policy tools into use, now and hit the rest of us on the head when we want to do the same. Frankly, I think this is a bad debate because it has consequences in the real world, in relation to how prosperous this fantastic country could actually be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165858	Now Mr. Joachim B. Olsen just said something about how wealthy we are or how wealthy we could be. We are a very rich country, but the difference between those who have the least and those who have the most just increases, and it increases relatively significantly with the proposals that have come in the last week's time. We are most interested in those who can work and who may need a helping hand, some upskilling, some continuing training in order to be able to enter the labour market. Because we are talking about real jobs and not a job supply that can come at some point. We are talking about what actually brings people into a labour market that they want to be part of, but where they just lack a final hand. That is why cutting education is a crying madness. It's the dumbest place you can ever cut down on. In Liberal Alliance language, it is growth-retardant to save on education. So I just don't get it, not even from your world view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907165958	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907170013	Thank you for that, and thank the government for a fine proposal for a Finance Act. The Conservative Parliamentary Group considers this to be a good proposal and we look forward to further negotiations. We are particularly pleased that a little money has been allocated to the police and the defence. It is the state's core task number one to ensure security in Denmark. It is quite basic, and it comes before many other desires you can have on how to spend money. We take security very seriously. We want a defence budget of 2%. of GDP, and we welcome every step in that direction. The police also need more resources. Tasks such as protection of terrorism, border controls and gang war put enormous pressure on the police, which is why they need money. We are also very pleased that the tight immigration policy allows us to move resources from supporting refugees in Denmark to helping them in the neighbourhood instead. It is pointless to try to solve the world's poverty and refugee problems by moving poor people from all over the world to Denmark and providing them with cash aid. I would also like to mention that we are pleased that the government will reduce the tariffs on the Storebælt Bridge so that the Danes can get around the country more easily. There are many things that we can welcome and that I can mention here. The big disagreement is, of course, about the size of the public sector and the taxes, so I will focus my speech on that. We have a good and prosperous society, which is basically well designed, but we also have some challenges. The state has become too large and too large, the tax is too high, and too many Danes live on transfer income, so we are supported by others instead of earning our own money. 47% of all adult Danes have a transfer income as main income: pension, unemployment benefit, cash benefits, SU, early retirement etc. This means that almost half of all adult Danes are supported by the state without working for the money, and that is too many. Public expenditure in Denmark is the third highest in the OECD as a percentage of GDP. This also means that Denmark has the highest tax burden in the OECD. The state takes almost half of all value created in Denmark, almost half of GDP. This means that in Denmark it does not pay as much as in other countries to take an education, to make a career, start a business and work extra hard at work. It is bad for our prosperity and, above all, it is a moral problem. When you're working, you need more money than when you're not working. One of life's great pleasures is to work hard to improve your life, to see the fruits of your work, and that joy is minimized under our enormously high tax burden. If you work extra hard, the state will take most of it. That is not fair, and that is why we want to reduce taxes. We would also like to reduce taxes because we actually regard citizens as adults. We politicians do not have to make so many choices about how citizens' money is to be spent, they can find out for themselves. We in here are not smarter than the citizens, and we are not their parents. When you are in favour of an extremely high tax burden that we have in this country, you are in favour of giving the politicians extremely great power. Then we are in favour of politicians deciding in detail how to use the resources of society, rather than having confidence that people can make choices about what is good for them to a large extent. This is an expression of knowledge and distrust of the citizens' own judgment. It is also a lack of understanding of the huge waste of resources that takes place when the money is first to be collected in tax, then managed and channelled into the public system before it is spent on something that may benefit citizens. It is clear that many public expenditure is necessary and creates value. There is no doubt about that. But it is also clear that when you start to have as your left-wing goal that public budgets have to be as large as possible, enormous wealth is lost. Then society's resources will be exploited worse than if so much money is not channelled through the public system before it was spent. We are a much poorer country than we could be if we let people keep a little more of their own money and spend it ourselves. When it is so difficult to lower taxes in Denmark, it is related to simple mathematics. The majority of Danes have an income that is lower than the average. Therefore, most Danes will have an economic incentive to favour large redistribution from those with the highest incomes to themselves. Of course, all people do not think that way, but the incentive is strong, and that, of course, affects the vote. The parties which advocate excessive redistribution appeal to the self-interest of a great many Danes. It is not fair or appropriate to have such a high tax, but it has a large electoral appeal. It seems particularly effective when the opposition to tax relief is brought forward with a stupid punk that it only benefits the rich in northern Zealand. It is, of course, the case that when you lighten the tax, it mostly breaks through for those who pay the most in taxes. But it is foolish to interpret it as if it were a special goal for us bourgeois to give money to people who are rich or come from certain parts of the country. Our goal is lower taxes, and if you want to have lower taxes, that means an increase in the income of those who pay the most in taxes. We are comfortable with that, and we must live with it in the rest of the Danish Parliament, otherwise we have to admit that we are simply opposed to the world's highest tax burden being reduced. The opponents say that tax cuts create inequality, and there is something right in that, because any tax rate below 100 leaves room for inequality. It is not the tax cuts that create inequality. Inequality is natural, but it is true that anything less than a confiscation of all property in society allows inequality to exist. It's too bad if you stare so blindly at being against inequality that you put everyone else aside. It is a pity to be opposed to Denmark becoming richer if only it creates the least extra inequality compared to today. We must keep the focus on combating poverty, but we must not fight wealth or see it as something negative, that there are people who are getting more money in Denmark. No one wants to dismantle the welfare state. That view does not exist in the Folketing. Everyone agrees that we must take good care of the weak, that we must have good schools, roads and hospitals. You can get all that for less than the world's highest tax burden. It is in fact a prerequisite for gaining more prosperity, and hence also what the Left calls welfare, that is. In the short term, we will be able to keep up with public spending and invest in tax cuts, so that Denmark can be rich again. We believe that the government's financial and tax bill is a step in the right direction. It is not a huge step, but it is a step in lowering taxes a little and ensuring that we get a higher gross domestic product and more people into work. We cannot oppose this. It is a step towards more economic freedom for citizens, a little less power for politicians and not least a step towards more prosperity, and that Denmark can also be among the richest countries in the world in the future. That is why we support the government's financial billing and we very much hope that we can make an agreement with the Danish People's Party and who else can see themselves in some of the pointers that are in the government's financial billing proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907170833	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the series of questions, and that's Mr. Knox. Morten Bødskov, the Social Democrat, who has the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907170841	Thank you for that, President. It has to be said that it is quite wrong when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov says that the bourgeois are not known for distributing money to certain parts of the country. If you look at this Finance Act, one of the peculiarities of it is that 100 million have been set aside. kr. It may be that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has not earned that distribution in the Conservatives' parliament group, but the money is still divided. Well, that's sir. Rasmus Jarlov's own problem. What I would like to ask is the foundation of the Danish economy, namely the welfare agreement that dates back to 2006. There we asked the Danes to stay a little longer on the labour market. Those who were then on their way to retirement were told that if they stayed a little longer in the labour market, we would ensure that there is money to invest in older people's services, elderly people's help, home help and better treatment in our hospitals if they need it. Now we are launching a financial law which contains and will mean savings in basic welfare if it is adopted, as it has been proposed. Does the Conservative rapporteur not think that this is a clear breach by the government and therefore by the Conservative People's Party towards the many people who trusted what was also said at the time by the Conservative People's Party, namely that if you stayed a little longer in the labour market, there would be money for welfare? Now there is a financial law which means cuts in basic welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171014	It is difficult for me to answer, because I cannot even accept the premise that there should be cuts. The government has set a growth rate of 0.5% in public spending, so there are no cuts planned. It is planned that if the government's financial law is adopted, public budgets will actually increase slightly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171034	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171036	That's okay with that answer. However, it has to be said that it differs, nicely put, from what a whole string of economists and the Ministry of Finance itself says is the prerequisite for ensuring just a fair level of prosperity and welfare development, so that there is money for us to invest in the area of the elderly and the hospital so that we can keep to the level we now have. They disagree that it is possible to do so with the government's financial bill. That is why the reality is that the Conservatives are ready to accept breaking the promise made to the people, namely that, if they stayed a little longer in the labour market, there would be money for hospitals and money for the elderly and money for ensuring that quality can gradually increase. That doesn't mean this Finance Act. It means cuts. So does the rapporteur agree with the economists who have pointed out exactly that, namely that if we adopt it here, it will mean a deterioration in basic welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171143	As I said, I do not agree with that. When you increase the budget and add more money, at least in conservative terminology there is no talk of cuts. I know that one can argue that if they are not able at all to make productivity improvements in the public sector, wage developments are such that they may be stronger than the growth planned by the government and therefore there will be less money for people around. But we believe and hope that in the public sector too they can at least have some small productivity increases around which means that if you have a small growth rate of 0.5%, there is no reason to talk about there will be cuts or reductions in service levels around it. If we can't, it's a declaration of bankruptcy. If we cannot run the public sector better than being able to improve a little so that we can manage with a growth rate of 0.5%, we think it is too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171232	Thank you. The next one's gotta be sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171246	I would like to ask a little about this green profile, which Conservatives, after all, have led to in relation to the other government parties, and that is, of course, because of the fact that I believe that the green profile gets a little shaky when you look at the financial bill and look at what has played a major role today in the debate, namely the reduction of registration fees and the reduction of tariffs on Storebælt, which everything else will lead to an increase in CO2 For the fourth year in a row CO2 I was actually at the Transport Policy Summit, it is called at Fyens Stiftstidende on Saturday in Odense, and I think that I could hear from the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, Mrs Mai Mercado, that there was also an opening with the Conservatives on both issues in fact, both in relation to a green change of registration fees, i.e. to put it on CO2 big carmen actually warn against doing so, because it is causing traffic to be true to and you that 30-40 pct. In the case of small rail freight, which is actually being transported by green rail today, it is on the roads and therefore contributes to congestion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171436	If I understand the question correctly, it was whether there was any opening at Conservatives to avoid lowering the tariffs on Storebælt. There isn't. We are in favour of doing so. In relation to the registration fee, our mandates are in the hands of the government and we are voting in favour of what the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171502	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171508	Well, then, I just find that the green profile, which I think most people recognise the Conservatives after all, appears a little shaky, as I also said in my first question. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov acknowledges that it leads to increased car traffic, increased CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171539	I would like to say two things to that. One is that it is actually important to us when we change the registration fee, that it does not lead to many more cars, and for that reason it is actually also important that the cheap cars do not become significantly cheaper, because then we will see that there will be more cars and an increased CO2 but when we make some cars that are medium or large, a little cheaper, it does not lead to more cars, then it just leads to buying some better cars and some of them will be newer and even more environmentally friendly. So we have that consideration when we negotiate the registration fee. The second thing I want to say is that the government still has its targets for how CO2 they are not given up, and that means it is true that there may be some elements here that lead to more CO2 that means that we are forced to take some other steps later so that we can balance the accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171635	Thank you. It had not just been registered, but it is now Mrs Josephine Fock for a question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171647	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I would like to ask about the green national accounts. I can also see that the rapporteur of the Left in the field, Anni Matthiesen, has nevertheless made a positive statement on this. And I would like to hear a message from the Conservative People's Party as to whether money can still be found to carry on with the green national accounts, as it may not be so clever that we have set something in motion, but now we are removing the appropriation. And it is of course important that we measure this, I hope, as the Conservatives can back that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171720	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171721	Well, I wouldn't deny that, and the government doesn't. I heard the Minister for the Interior say that he was then open for us to make wider green national accounts than has been proposed at first sight, because there is a pool called "Together for future businesses," which can be used for example. That. And I think that was a sensible statement by the Minister for the Interior. So maybe we'll figure it out. I cannot promise anything, but that is not something we want to look at with reluctance on the part of the Conservatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171758	Well, I'm glad to hear that. Then I hope that the Conservatives will, after all, push within the government for something. Then I would also like to ask the Conservatives about asking for measurements in relation to the climate impact of the Finance Act which the Alternative seems important and which I also think the Conservatives as the Green Party in the bourgeois block might think was important. Is this something that the Conservatives will help to push for this time and then also per? Automatically forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171833	That is a question I have not been asked before, and I have not considered it. It depends, of course, on what the cost of it is. So there are, of course, some initiatives here that we can probably say immediately do not have the major climate impact, so there must be a few initiatives in the Finance Act that can be examined. And I don't think we'd mind, but can't you excuse me for asking a counter-question as a member of the House to ask that question and then get it answered? I have not heard that there should be obstacles to it, but if so, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171904	Thank you. Next on the list, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907171910	Thank you for that, President. I think it is worth noting that when we talk about growth in the public sector of 0.5 next year, it is, after all, including both police and defence, and so many hot hands are probably not in gunpowder and bullets, so in reality it is a much smaller growth in the public sector and a growth that cannot cover demographic development at all. So, unfortunately, the government is behind a dramatic reduction in welfare. I think you should stand by that. My real question is that the government has presented a business and entrepreneurial initiative. If you look at the playout, you can see that there are 22 points, and it actually appears quite impressive with so many points, but if you go a little further in detail, you can see that, despite the many points, there is therefore no objective as to how much GDP is really going to generate, i.e. how much growth, how much GDP growth is going to come in Denmark as a consequence of the playout. Is it not rather tame, given the conservative business profile, that one does not have a real objective of how much GDP growth is to be achieved as a consequence of the business and entrepreneurial initiative?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172020	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172022	I should say hello and say that there are many of the soldiers who can get hugely warm hands when they're out on the shooting range or something else. In reply to the last question, I would like to say that it might well be worth asking some questions about how much GDP growth is expected from the initiative of the Ministry of Industry, but I know that fiscal law and job reform overall provide structural GDP growth of around 7 billion. kr. So, of course, we have some ambitions. And 7 billion. kr. is of course not much out of our gross domestic product, but it is a kind of money at the end of the month, and you can get a lot of warm hands for them, so we think it is worth creating that growth in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172104	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172105	I am sorry to hear, on behalf of the government, that the Conservative rapporteur thinks that the overall policy of the government does not generate enough growth, but I have to go back to my original question, namely the fact that a business and entrepreneurial package is being made, and then you simply do not link a measure of how much growth the package really should create to that. Is that ambitious enough? Should we not have a goal for that? If that objective is hidden in the Conservative hinterland, could the rapporteur make known to the rest of the world how much growth one really intends to create on the basis of its business and entrepreneurial package?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172143	No, I can't. I cannot say straight away how much GDP growth is expected from the initiatives in the growth package here. I have not come across that figure either, but it may be that we can ask the Minister for Finance if he has it somewhere. It seems very obvious that if we can add some more capital to our entrepreneurs and make life easier for them and create some businesses, it will give a growth in GDP, but I dare not give any indication of how much it must be. We have to ask the government that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172211	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172216	Thank you, President. As the Social Democrats' business rapporteur, I was able to hear Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, when he bombastly took up office as Minister of Business, said that now the business sector simply had to be spoiled. This is the kind of thing that raises expectations, not least in the Danish business community, and that is why I think there are some who are left with a disappointment now that the government's business venture with the 22 points came. After all, it is very little ambitious, I think, that in 2018 the government will spend small 800 million. kr. to create growth and jobs in Denmark, and it increases so slowly over the years to 2025. Does the rapporteur really think that 800 million? kr. on a business venture to create new jobs and growth in Denmark is to spoil the Danish business community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172307	I think it is a step in the right direction. We would like more, but it could be said that it is 800 million. kr. more than the Social Democracy has set aside for similar measures in theirs, I would call it financial law, but in the proposal that came yesterday from the Social Democrats; there we looked long after similar initiatives to help create capital and help entrepreneurial enterprises.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172332	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172334	I have to say that I am surprised that the bourgeois fiscal rapporteurs are conspicuous by being very badly dressed. I heard earlier that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur had not just read any answers and that is why he would not reply to anything, and now we hear that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party has not even read the fiscal proposals of Social Democracy, in which we refer to our business venture, where we spend 3 billion. kr. to stimulate growth and jobs, create new jobs for the Danes. If one can stand as a conservative rapporteur and claim that one cares about and cares about Danish business, and does not even know that the largest party in the Folketing actually has a visionary policy which is in fact far better than the government is putting forward, I do not think that one is doing one's job as a parliamentarian or rapporteur very well. But okay, 800 million. kr. I do not think that the pampering of Danish business is so great, and we have also heard that leading companies are out to say that the things you put forward are not what will give it boost to growth and new jobs that you might want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172435	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172437	It is true that I have not had many hours available in the course of today, when such an announcement has been announced on top of the debate on the financial bill, to read through the Social Democrats' proposals. Excuse me. I simply do not know how I can achieve this in the middle of a debate on finance law, where I have tried to be in this Chamber and listen to speeches from, among others, those from. Social democracy. But I have understood so much that in the Social Democrats' proposal more money will be spent on welfare, and then, among other things, it will be cancelled. such things as our relaxation of the inheritance tax. You want to cancel some of our tax concessions and other things that are good for business. I look forward to getting this figured out, but I would like to put my money on the fact that the social democracy initiative is probably not better for business than what we have put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172527	Thank you. The next to ask is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172531	Thank you so much. Now you can hear the Social Democracy thundering against the government's growth in government at 0.5%. and start talking like in 2011 about growth or welfare. I would like to know whether the Conservative rapporteur thinks that it is a bit hypocritical, bearing in mind that when the Social Democracy was in power, growth in the public sector was 0.2 per cent. per year, i.e. significantly below what it is planned to be in 2018. So I would just like to know if the Conservative rapporteur might think it was a bit bold.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172605	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172606	Well, there's a lot of double standards on the left side here, among other things. in relation to the top tax, which you yourself relieved when you had the power, and now it is suddenly sacrilege to talk about it at all. That's a bit of a surprise to us. But that confirms, it can be said, that there is one important quality of a left-wing government that a bourgeois government will never be able to have, and that is to have a responsible opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172639	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172640	Thank you. It must also be said that this is a significant difference. In other words, if we are to talk about welfare or tax relief, it must be more closely under the social democratic regime where growth in the public sector was significantly lower. I would like to know if the rapporteur could agree with me on that. At the same time, I would like to know whether the rapporteur believes that it is because the Social Democratic Party has not been able to agree internally on their financial legislation, that it will only come immediately before the financial law process, or whether it is because they will give as little time as possible to prepare for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172707	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172707-2	I simply do not know, but of course I share the surprise of Mrs Louise Schack Elholm. There are many things that the Social Democrats themselves have done, which have probably been okay when they themselves were implemented, but now, when we try to get a majority for something, we do not want to be in it. And that's too bad, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172728	Thank you. And the next one is Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172731	Thank you very much. I would just like to draw the rapporteur's attention to the fact that the social democracy's growth initiative is not from yesterday or today, but that it came on 26 March this year. So it has been almost six months, so the rapporteur has had some time to read it out. I would also like to say that in our proposal there are actually 3 billion. kr. A year to business, so I think we're gonna beat the game that's come from the government. However, my question is that the financial director of Lundbeck, Anders Götzsche, has said that the government's business and entrepreneurial initiative is too unambitious, and then he has called for a higher research allowance up to 130 per cent. That is what he is asking for, because he thinks that we need research in Denmark, and that is why we should promote it. In this context, does the rapporteur agree with the Social Democrats' proposal that a reduction of 130% should be applied? will create much better framework conditions for Danish business than that contained in the government's own proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172855	I agree that it will certainly be quite easy to find support in the business community to obtain a deduction for research of 130 per cent, but I disagree that this would be sensible. I mean, it's definitely government subsidies. 130% reduction is State subsidies for research. And then you will see that there will be companies that initiate research, only because it gives them subsidies that are higher than their research costs, and that is not healthy. It is not healthy to initiate activities not to get a return to the company, but to be able to get a determined state grant for it and to pay more than its costs. That would be quite wrong in my economic opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907172944	In fact, I think that the rapporteur puts the business community in a rather poor light by suspecting that they would abuse such a scheme, which I actually think we could enjoy very much in Denmark, because we need the Danish business community to continue to develop and to come up with new ideas, new products that we can sell abroad. So I'm a little disappointed in that. In fact, I would like to know whether it makes any impression on the Conservatives at all that such a man as the financial director of Lundbeck, who is not Mr. Whoever says he thinks the playout is too unambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173030	It makes no impression at all to me that a director of a research company would like state subsidies for research, I must admit. It doesn't. We love the business community at Conservatives, we love them very much, but we also have to keep in mind what motives people can have in such a situation as this one. In fact, I think it would be to devalue the business community and to speak badly of them and to suspect them to be ill-advised if they were to assume that they would not use a state subsidy for research to initiate research activities, which would otherwise have no return. It would be really stupid of them not to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173106	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, and after that, it's sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173112	I understand that Conservatives do not want to smash the state's money, and I think that's a good thing. Nevertheless, we are incredibly greedy about the state's money every year. The Minister for Employment says we're spending 80 billion. kr. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Yet you cut down on the Labour Inspectorate, do not set aside money for research, do not set aside money for information in the field of prevention, where we could save people pain, save the Treasury for immense sums of money. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173159	We believe that there is generally a good working environment in Denmark. Of course it can always get better, there is no doubt about that. There are, of course, places around where things are not right, and our policy is that we must strike down hard where we deliberately violate the rules and deliberately create a bad working environment. But we also need to find a balance so that companies that do not deliberately violate the rules are not harassed by too many inspections. So it is our view that we can still have effective labour supervision of the funds allocated and that the return to society by having more funds for that activity would not be sufficient.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173241	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173243	I'm gonna try again. 80 billion. kr. costs it in loss of production, in treatment, in pension and in sickness benefit • 80 billion. kr. says the Minister. Is that an acceptable cost? The rapporteur says that in general we have a good working environment. There are 60,000 Danes who get hurt every year or who get an occupational disease. In fact, 2,000 Danes die every year from these diseases and accidents. If this is generally good for the Conservatives, I don't know where we're going. A tiny investment in preventive work could perhaps yield a return and make profits purely financially if we did it properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173327	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173328	Well it is not our view that by increasing the Labour Inspectorate's budget we will have a much better working environment around. We recognise that this is an important task, but we also recognise that it can be resolved within the means that have been set aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173347	Then it's mr. René Christensen, and then it's Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173351	Thank you. It is actually the debate that the rapporteur had with Mrs Karin Gaardsted that makes me stand up, because I think it is a little interesting that, as a Socialist rapporteur, the question is asked as to why no more money is spent on granting tax relief to companies. So you have to give a company like Lundbeck, which is actually going quite well, a research allowance of 130 per cent. That is what the question to the rapporteur was about. It should not be given to small and medium-sized enterprises. The carpenter master or others should not receive an increased deduction, but Lundbeck must. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is it not true that if a reduction of 130 per cent is introduced, the money for such a company, which in any case will carry out research, will cost and go from something else, for example from welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173438	It will be enormously expensive. We have companies like Novo Nordisk, Lundbeck and other pharmaceutical companies, and we have many high-tech companies in Denmark in the defence industry and everything else that has large research budgets. And we could foresee that the research budgets would be much, much larger if such a generous state subsidy were introduced as a deduction of 130 per cent. So I think it's crazy to talk about it. I know that this is, of course, a wish from the business community, because who would not like to have their hands in public crowns? But I do not see that it makes any sense in economic terms. Businesses have to do research because it provides a return. They don't have to do research because they get government subsidies for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173522	Then it's mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173524	I have actually marked for exactly the same reason. I'm really confused at a high level. It is not because of the rapporteur, because that was a clear speech. But we have spent the whole morning and most of the afternoon discussing the classical welfare, that is, the common welfare, and tax relief. Now there is a proposal, one must understand, from the Social Democratic Party. It is very strongly argued that a tax credit should be increased, that is to say a tax relief, and it is even to companies in this country that it is going well for. We will now be betting on this after all morning's weeping is full of the fact that every penny that goes to various tax cuts goes from the common welfare and that it is the welfare that is given priority over tax relief. - Sir... Rasmus Jarlov understand that I'm a little confused about that message?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173616	I can understand that. When you slam something as violently on the table as companies' billions of budgets for research and say that you want to subsidise it with a deduction of 130 per cent, you simply overturn a budget bill. These are gigantic amounts we are talking about here. I think this is much more than what we have proposed for business schemes in our proposal. I know that such a company as Novo Nordisk does not, of course, have all the research in Denmark; I know that much of the research is abroad • has a research budget of two-digit billions. If you were to imagine that it would have to be subsidised with a deduction of 130 per cent, it would be a lot of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173658	Then it's mr. Benny Engelbrecht, and after that, it's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Benny Engelbrecht, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173703	I'm actually just wondering that sir... Rasmus Jarlov is not aware that the government itself proposes such a deduction, that is to say that the government's growth team itself proposes such a deduction, and moreover that neither Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, or the others who have commented on this, has listened carefully when I gave my rapporteur's speech earlier today because this was not surprising. Well, that's not what I'm gonna ask. On the other hand, I would like to ask you about the registration fee, because I know that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has dealt with. The party's political rapporteur has also indicated that the proposals made by the Danish People's Party for a technically based tax sound reasonable. I have also noted that Mr. René Christensen, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, has expressed a positive view of making broad agreements on it if necessary. And I would just like to know whether the Conservatives think that this is a proposal that needs to be further worked on, namely the technically based tax, and also agree that we should call for broad negotiations on it. As far as the Social Democrats are concerned, I can say that we are ready to negotiate on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173815	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173816	Well, I don't want any opinion on who to call for negotiations. I will leave that to the negotiating leader, who is the Minister for Finance. I think it would be inappropriate if I started to have an opinion on it. That is a difficult question, because here there is a difference between what the government has played out with and what is the policy of the Conservative People's Party. I would like to stress that we support what we, the three governing parties, have agreed on in the proposal and that we will vote in favour of it. However, when I am asked about the conservative position, I would say that it is also clear that we are in favour of lower registration fees. We think that what the government has put forward is good and we also think that it would be good if a technical tax could be made. So that is how we feel as a party, but we are in intergovernmental cooperation, and there we are, of course, not negotiating as separate parties, but gathering together, and there the government has put forward its proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173908	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173910	It is also quite clear that there is no majority, nor will there be a majority for what the government has put forward, and that is why we can say that we must move forward. It is clear to everyone that the car market has stopped. An official request has also been made today to the Committee on Finance, which stresses the seriousness of the fact that 14 days have passed since the market was completely stalled and that this cannot continue. So, when it is the case that what the government has put forward cannot, under any circumstances, bring together a majority, the question is of course: if you then go down another path, do you think Conservatives think it would be most sensible to make broad-based agreements, so that you get security and security among car owners and not least in the industry?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907173952	I don't want to deal with that. I think it would be annoying for the negotiating leader if I started to have opinions on what should happen in the negotiations in the future. Now the government negotiates on its own initiative, and then we see how far the government gets with it. Then we take the next step then, if we could get to it, but we cross it when we get to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174013	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174015	Thank you for a rapporteur's speech, which I also think was very ideological, and I think that is actually very nice in this whole debate on 0.7 and 0.8 etc. What the rapporteur says is, of course, that if we cut back on welfare or public spending and instead give tax relief, we will move the decision and some freedom to the citizen. But I guess the problem with that maneuver is that the freedom that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov then distributes out, distributes very unevenly, where welfare is something we can draw on regardless of our income. We should not think about whether we owe ourselves when we go to the hospital, and we can get the education we want for our young people if they are talented. So the freedom, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is talking about, isn't it? There the director will have the freedom to choose the best education for his children, while the workman will not have that opportunity. There, the director will have the opportunity to buy the best health care and care for the elderly, while the low-paid private employee will not have the same opportunity. It is probably at the heart of the Scandinavian welfare models that we have built up, as opposed to, for example. other countries of the world. Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is really a better model?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174136	Thank you. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174137	I believe that the model we have in Denmark is basically good, but it has gone too far. We all agree that it should be the case, for example, that you have access to good health care, that all citizens in Denmark should have access to it and that it should be publicly funded. But there are many other things where you might think that people could pay themselves here, for example. to go to the library. There could also be some cultural offers around, and there might be some television channels you could pay for yourself. Perhaps we could also drop a little bit down on this universal access to welfare services, where people who have huge millions of revenue from the Lamborghini segment, as we usually call it, have access to a lot of public services. They could pay for that themselves. Basically, we also think that the fact that all money is not all, but a very large share of our money in Denmark must pass the public, gives us a huge loss of welfare. First they have to be levied in tax with a lot of complicated rules and then they have to be managed and channelled out. So it's both about us believing that people can make choices themselves and that the elections are getting worse because me and Mr. Pelle Dragsted finds them for them, and also that there is simply a loss of welfare in the huge welfare state we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174248	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174249	It's a little weird with that welfare loss when the countries that have chosen exactly the model with a relatively high tax level and a rather large public sector are all among the world's ten richest countries. There's something that doesn't quite add up. But does the rapporteur recognise that a collectively based welfare society creates freedom for those who do not have very high incomes to choose the education they want and that that freedom is greater for the majority than it is in countries where it is income that determines which education to choose?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174334	In other words, if you take Denmark as an example, you can say that we were also rich before we had a welfare society, probably also relatively richer than other countries. We were high on the ranking list of rich countries before we got a welfare society. So one cannot conclude that it is because of the welfare society that a country like Denmark and other similar countries has become richer. On the contrary, it may be that we have been able to afford to build a welfare society. I recognise that it offers opportunities and you might call it freedom • that, for example, we have access to education in Denmark without having to pay for it, and we are also in favour of that. But we think it goes too far and becomes unfree when Mr. Pelle Dragsted wants to control such a large proportion of people's income.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174415	Then it's Mrs. Astrid Krag, and then it's Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174418	Thank you. I would like to return to something that is entirely back in time right after the rapporteur's speech. My good colleague, sir. Morten Bødskov asked about the welfare settlement in 2006, which stated in the text of the agreement that the changes in the retirement system would ensure that the Danish welfare society would be funded for many decades and allow for greater costs of health and care when there were more older people. Mr. Morten Bødskov looked forward to it because the government only devotes barely half of what the Ministry of Finance is going to do to keep up with the increasing number of elderly people. By 2025 there will be 150,000 more elderly people over 70 years of age. This corresponds to a whole new town a little bigger than Aalborg, where everyone is just over 70 years old, and it could probably be cozy enough. But then the rapporteur's answer was why it will not be a problem to stand and lack 12 billion. kr. to the care and care of the many more elderly, who will be in the future, that one could then just make things a little smarter in the public sector. That sounds very good, but it is not small amounts that the rapporteur and the government are missing. So I would really just like to give the rapporteur an opportunity to become a little more specific and tell him what it is like to see this not being felt by the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174533	The rapporteur then has one more minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174535	Thank you. After all, the agreement did not say that we promised that we would have a growth in public consumption of 0.8% in the future. So there wasn't. It stated that it would lay the foundations for the future also to be able to afford a welfare state. And if we hadn't made that deal, today we would be short of money for our welfare state. So that deal has delivered. It is true what was written in it and there is no breach of promise. To answer the second question, you may have to reprioritize. It is true that there are some demographic developments, both between country and city and in age, etc., which mean that there are some areas of the welfare state that need to be given more resources while perhaps savings can be made in other areas. And that must then be given priority. But overall, we spend 1,100 billion. kr. in the public budget per year, so it is possible to find some money for the elderly too without being an expert on care for the elderly and being able to come up with very concrete solutions. I just don't know enough about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174630	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174631	But that is precisely why it is so worrying when the government knocks out with its hand and says: it may well be that the Ministry of Finance points out that there is a need for 25 billion. kr. If we want to keep the level of the growing number of older people in the future, to maintain dignity in the care of the elderly, to ensure that the elderly can get out of bed in the morning and to ensure that they can occasionally get out of bed when they can't do it themselves, etc. It doesn't matter that we're missing 12 billion. kr., says the government, because you can just make it smarter. But when we have to come up with concrete proposals on how, or how, to re-prioritize, it is my children's nursery and kindergarten and school that the money has to be taken from, yes, we just have to say that the government's rapporteurs, and now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, boasts not to have as much as one specific answer. And that just makes it very, very worrying. So I would like to give the rapporteur a second chance, because otherwise these are air castles and fries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174718	Thank you. This time it's 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174720	Thank you very much for a second chance. However, I do not believe that we should be politicians in such a way that all knowledge about how to do out in the individual nursing home should be able to find its way to my head. There is simply no room for that, and I am not gifted or wise enough to stand and tell people how to do it out there. As rapporteur for the financial sector, we must first of all steer towards a framework out there, and then it is up to local authorities to find solutions for it. If I came up with solutions here, I almost think it would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174751	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174751-2	Thank you. In recent years, there have been some very large savings on our preparedness, both in municipal preparedness and in state preparedness. This means, in concrete terms, that there are fewer resources to be deployed when aid is needed, i.e. when there is severe weather, or if the terrible thing should happen, that we were hit by a terrorist attack. The last time we did that, there was clearly a need for preparedness. When I was looking at the draft budget, I could see that 2.5 billion has been set aside. kr. To the police and military. It didn't say anything about the rescue team. And I know that in the past the rapporteur has thought that these savings have been bad and he has been concerned about the robustness of our preparedness. So I would just like to hear from the Conservative rapporteur on one of the government party rapporteurs: is it the case that these 2.5 billion. kr. Not only is it intended for the police and the military, but it is also the idea that money should be set aside for our rescue teams?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174907	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174908	I cannot tell you anything about that yet, because the government will come up with its defence proposals later, and that will also be apparent. But I would like to say that I really appreciate Enhedslisten's interest in this area, because it is and I am very pleased that Enhedslisten and Conservatives can also find common ground here in one of the areas of the Defence Committee. I myself stood out on southern Amager this winter, when the water was like this 5 cm or something like that from flushing over the dam out there, and if that had happened, there would have been thousands of households that had been under water because they were lying below the sea surface behind the dam. It was very serious. And with the climate change that is, the terrorist threat there is, the preparedness also needs to be upgraded. I fully agree with Enhedslisten on this, and I hope we can stand together on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174956	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907174957	Thank you. After all, we have worked together in the past, Conservatives and Enhedslisten, to meet some of the savings that have been made and which, frankly, have been things that have happened on boned floors in the Ministry of Finance and have not been based on such an emergency assessment. And I have to say that I am very concerned both about the harsher weather and about the situation that we may be hit by terror. And as much police and as much military can never secure us a hundred percent against the terrible happening, and then we need someone to help us. But I would like to hear from the Conservative rapporteur: is it the Conservative People's Party's policy that more resources should be provided for our preparedness? Because then it would be a clear announcement that could be made here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907175041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907175042	Well, that's our policy. Well, the Conservative People's Party believes that the preparedness needs more money. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907175050	Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov. We move on to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, and after Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's speech there will be a break until 1 p.m. 19.00, so that you can refresh yourself and strengthen yourself for the rest of the debate. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907175109	Thank you very much. I would like to start by thanking the government and the Finance Committee. Last week, 30 million were granted. kr. to the victims of the natural disaster in North Greenland in Nuugaatsiaq and Illorsuit, and I know it means a great deal to people that the government also supports and helps to secure some money for recovery here. I would also like to thank the police and the defence, both in Greenland and in Denmark, for having made extraordinary efforts in connection with the natural disaster. This money is really somebody who falls in a dry place. So thank you so much. Living with a harsh nature is not unfamiliar to us in Greenland, but natural disasters of the kind that were here in the spring are very unfamiliar to us. Therefore, it is also very relevant to ask whether this is a new reality, i.e. whether it is due to climate change and the consequences there are. And that's why I'm really happy that the government is backing up with the means to do these studies, in relation to whether there are more mountain slopes in Greenland. Last week, the government put forward a financial bill with the title "A safe and coherent Denmark," and the emphasis is placed on the need to find more funds for the defence, police and criminal services. And all three areas can be said to be areas which Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland, so I think it is appropriate that the government should also address the great need for strengthening the areas in Greenland. We also know that there are some of these improvements to be made in the autumn through the various conciliations, among others. The defence settlement and the criminal justice settlement are unfortunately settlements to which we have not been invited. We saw that at the last court settlement, the criminal justice service in Greenland became part of the savings. You felt that quite massively because it's some small units. Unfortunately, we were only to a very limited extent part of the new initiatives, and this meant that the many new initiatives that were taken, among other things. children of inmates, new funds for the training of prison officers and for strengthening the training and labour market preparation of inmates, could not be felt in Greenland. If we look at the forthcoming criminal justice settlement, we believe from Inuit Ataqatigiits side that focus among other things. must be in the training of asylum officers to ensure that it reaches the same level as that of Danish officers. Another settlement that will be reached here shortly is the defence settlement. Many of the recommendations that come from the government's own Arctic analysis have not yet come true. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we believe that the majority of the employees in Arctic Command in Greenland should be Greenlanders, and we therefore believe that a defence training should be established in Greenland with a focus on the many civilian tasks that exist in Greenland. 120 million has been set aside. kr. Every year to strengthen efforts in relation to the defence mission in the Arctic and in Greenland, but you haven't found any money, you might say, to this defence training, which we actually wanted there to be in Greenland. If you look at the purpose of the Self-Government Act, it is that the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland will be brought up to the level of the same areas in Denmark. And that is why it is also a distortion when we are not invited with us who represent the Greenlandic people in the various settlements that also concern Greenland. This means that the gap between the criminal services and the defence in Greenland and in Denmark becomes even greater. It also means that the backlog just gets even bigger. I think it is time to put an end to this negative discrimination. From the side of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we have done so, that we have addressed the legal rapporteurs and the defence rapporteurs, who are going to sit at conciliation, but I do not think that should be necessary. That is why I also hope that the fingerprint I am putting in this parliamentary term is that Greenland will be invited to these conciliations in the future. The government has set aside 10 million in its financial bill. kr. annual extra to strengthen the justice area, a total of 40 million. kr. That is really, really pleasing because it really is an area that has needed a boost. From Inuit Ataqatigiits we have taken the initiative of a parliamentary hearing to strengthen justice. We have made a legislative proposal, and then we have tabled a motion for a resolution here in the Danish Parliament. The active efforts of Inuit Ataqatigiits in the Folketing, Inatsisartut and in Naalaksuisut have meant that the government has now begun to lift the justice area. It's really, really happy. The priority areas we are concerned with in relation to justice are ensuring equal pay for equal work. It is also a question of ensuring more training for asylum officers, for circuit judges and for defence. Then it is a question of establishing a new institution in Sisimiut that will find another solution, at least because the one we have today is an old barracks that is not suitable for the purpose. We would also like to see the great need for a new police station in Qaanaaq, North Greenland, to ensure more up-to-date conditions for those who look after us all. Finally, we also believe that there is a need to look at a more modern IT and radio system. I have previously come up with examples of how the police can almost lie at the bottom of the pile and use their own phones to call for backup. I do not think that is appropriate. So even if these 40 million... I should like to mention that just the example that I gave, i.e. the radio system, for example, is a very good one, which is set out in the draft budget. $40 million. kr. This is something we know must happen. So I think it is important that the money that has been allocated to strengthen the area of justice is also regularly evaluated in the government and in the Council of Greenland's judicial system, just as we in the Danish Parliament must take a critical view of whether enough money has been allocated. In particular, with regard to the area of justice, I would like to highlight the establishment of the National Defence Office, which has been set up without any additional funding being allocated to this task. I think it is directly unfair to the new national defender who entered his position not very long ago, and I think it is unfair to the defenders in Greenland. This means that the defender of the country has difficulty in ensuring training and further training, which is already provided for in the notice on this subject, with the funds that have been allocated. If we have a goal of strengthening legal certainty, strengthening the defenders, it is important that we are aware that the right means are there too, and that is something that needs to be looked at in relation to the national defender. Looking forward to the coming parliamentary year, we believe that the government should take new initiatives to ensure the inclusion of native Greenlanders. We know that the vast majority of the more than 16,000 Greenlanders living in Denmark are well-functioning, have a good life, thrive many are in work and contribute to society, pay tax, make an effort and also like to work voluntarily in addition. Recently there was an event in Aalborg, where the Minister for Culture took part, which we also helped to take the initiative on. It is called Greenlandic nuances and I would like to thank the Minister for Culture and the government for showing interest in it. The focus of the event was all the success stories, all the things that work... how can we do even more of that? And some of what we can agree on is really nice is Greenlandic culture, because culture can help bridge the gap between Greenland and Denmark. We have a project called "Nukiga·, which means my strength in Greenlandic and which the Greenlandic House in Aarhus has established. And they would like to work more nationally in terms of using culture to create new opportunities, some new stories about modern Greenland, and I hope that the government will take a positive view of this. Many Greenlanders who are in Denmark really want to work, but only barely half of them are at work. And that is not satisfactory either for us in the Folketing, for Danish society or for the individual Greenlander. That is why I also believe that the employment of Greenlanders in Denmark should be a special focus area for the government. I believe that we have a common interest in ensuring that even more people who pay taxes are even more actively involved in Danish society. Naalakkersuisut and the Danish government have reached an agreement on environmental clean-up at 30 previous military installations around Greenland, and here approx. 150 million kr. over the five years of the project. But when you look at the clean-up of the Green Valley, it is estimated that it will cost 250 million. kr., which is an enormously high amount. But that is why we must also be critical of the 150 million. kr. is enough to ensure cleanup at these 30 installations. This is certainly something that we will follow and be very critical of from Inuit Ataqatigiits. During the past parliamentary year, the government has had a large number of political ambitions in order to strengthen efforts in Greenland and in the Arctic. The foreign and security policy strategy, the defence Arctic analysis and the strategy for research and education in the Arctic are all initiatives that we have seen here recently. These are new initiatives which can help strengthen the Kingdom community, but which also need to be followed through with concrete initiatives which need to be reflected in the Finance Act. With these words, I would like to thank you for the floor and I shall look forward to a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907180135	We thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen for the time being. Then I shall postpone the sitting until 8:00. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190030	The sitting is resumed. After all, we have been given the rapporteur's speech, so we are ready for the brief remarks. And the first of a brief remark is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190050	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good rapporteur speech. I would just like to ask the rapporteur a little bit about the situation in relation to the homeless Greenlanders who are in this country. In other words, Greenlanders are over-represented in social statistics, even though there are many well-functioning people here. However, a new study shows that there is an alarmingly high proportion of Greenlanders among homeless people here. What can we do to change that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190126	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190131	Homelessness is such a complex problem, so it is difficult to come up with one clear solution, but what needs to be done. However, we feel morally responsible for helping to discuss solutions from Inuit Ataqatigiits, so I have also asked for a meeting with the Minister for Children and Social Affairs to find out what we can do specifically in relation to the Greenlanders who are socially vulnerable, and especially those who are homeless. If we look at developments in relation to the socially vulnerable in Greenland, we see, unfortunately, that there are more and more young homeless people who could potentially also be a group who could come to Denmark. And that's why I think you should be aware of Greenland, but to a large extent also when they move to Denmark • what we can do to get to them quickly. Some of it's about an apartment. Something else is about some social measures. However, I believe in particular that this whole thing with the very early effort and taking a quick hold of people when they get here is absolutely crucial.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190231	The questioner for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190233	That should be my second question about young people. It is the case that here in Denmark we see more and more young people, unfortunately, who are without a roof over their heads. I could imagine that some of the same could happen in Greenland. Now the rapporteur says that we must ensure that they are welcomed when they arrive and receive them quickly. We might also imagine that the same things could be done for young people at home in Greenland, so that they were free from leaving their own country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190304	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190306	Thank you for your comments. So do we, and I am also in favour of us doing even more. I have met some resistance to stronger cooperation between Greenland and Denmark to solve some of the social challenges, which in many ways are a common challenge that we face. Fortunately, I see some positive trends in Greenland in terms of wanting to do something more in the social field and to prioritise the social area, and that is absolutely crucial in relation to it. Finally, I would also like to say: fortunately, the vast majority of Greenlanders in Denmark are well-functioning, that is about 80%. I would like us to do something more in relation to employment and other measures so that the group of well-functioning Greenlanders becomes larger.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190354	Thank you. The next brief remark is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190400	Thank you. If I am looking forward to hearing Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's report from Greenland when we are going to have the big debates. It is always well prepared and very careful and thorough. Thank you. I would like to ask a question about something that the rapporteur did not touch on, but which we talked about last year at the same time, namely sea charts for Greenland, which Denmark has promised to get made by the Spatial Data Board. The government will now transfer the Spatial Data Board to Aalborg and has therefore lost virtually all the specialists, and no maps have been drawn in the last year. What do the Greenlanders think about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190449	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190452	Thank you very much. From the point of view of Greenland, it is a matter which has great political attention, and so it has been seen across the various parties. There is a great desire for the charts to be put in place. The decision to relocate public jobs seems to me to be a Danish matter, so I will refrain from commenting on that. However, it is extremely regrettable that the rather ambitious agreement between Greenland and Denmark is not maintained to ensure that all charts are in place by 2018. Personally, I also regret the fact that Naala Suisut did not insist that this should be done as soon as possible. That is why we do not have a timetable for the completion of the charts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190541	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190544	I dare say my opinion on that. I think it is foolish to relocate jobs and not keep to its agreements and then make an agreement that is worse than the one that was before. That's cheating the Greenlanders. The last question that I have is whether the constitution that many Greenlanders want to be self-employed is a constitution that can be used in an independent Greenland, or whether it is a constitution that is based on the fact that the Kingdom Community is also part of Greenland's reality in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190617	Thank you very much. After all, a Constitutional Commission has been set up, and it can be said in part that it is very much up to them to find out whether it is track one or track two that Greenland should move down. I think it is important to discuss this very carefully with the public not only at citizens' meetings, but also by going out and ensuring that all votes in this matter are heard. I have previously expressed my concern about Greenland's economy in the long run, but it will also be very much felt in relation to the degree of autonomy. I represent a party that is working towards independence and it will always be the overall goal for us in Inuit Ataqatigiit, but I also think it is important to be credible to the voters in terms of being able to ensure proper primary schools, a proper health system and a proper welfare system in Greenland and ensuring that the money is there for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190711	Thank you. Then there's one more questioner, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190720	I think it is a pity to hear that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has not been invited into the defence negotiations. Now they haven't started yet, but I could understand that there are no plans for it. I think that is a pity, because it would help to anchor the defence better in Greenland, and I think that we will lack the knowledge of Greenlandic conditions that we could have gained in this context. It will not be the same when the rest of us sit and talk about Greenland, as if we had brought a Greenlandic MP at the table. It is hard to know whether Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen could come to a settlement. IA is, of course, a relatively left-wing party, which has some pacifist roots, and I think that there would be some pretty big camels that you should swallow, when you would not be able to demand from the Americans that they should pay for their bases up there and things like that. So I don't know if you could get along. But I think it would be sensible to invite IA into the negotiations. Now I would just like to ask whether Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen can mention some of the wishes that Inuit Ataqatigiit has for the defence settlement, because then we others will have to try to bring them forward during the negotiations, even if it will not be the same.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190841	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907190845	Thank you for your comments. I have been called a bit of each from the platform and I would also say Inatsisartut and so I will not enter into that discussion about politics. However, as the rapporteur has probably also remarked, I am very concerned as rapporteur about being constructive, being pragmatic, being solution-oriented, and that is also the same attitude with which we are going to enter into the negotiations. I think it makes a lot of sense when it comes to defence and Greenland.Of course it is also about the defence of Denmark that you then go constructively and have a dialogue about things. One might say that this is a little bit like not being allowed in, and it might be that we decided that we can't see ourselves being part of this settlement, but then we had the opportunity to sit at the table. What we are doing quite specifically is that we are addressing the rapporteurs, among other things. also the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, to give input. We would like there to be more Greenlanders in the defence in Greenland, and we would like there to be a defence training in Greenland, and to see that the Greenlanders who would like to serve a military service had a better chance of doing so. So that's the kind of thing we're preoccupied with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907191003	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907191006	These are objectives which the Conservative People's Party fully shares. We would also very much like there to be more Greenlanders serving in the Danish defence. The defence is perhaps the most important institution in the Kingdom of Greenland, the one that fills the most, I think, also such a crew-wise, and of course there are some Greenlanders there. When I spoke to the Sirius patrol, they highlighted, I believe, three Greenlanders who had served in Sirius. In fact, this was similar to the size of the Greenlandic population compared to the Danish population, which is 100 times larger. But we would still like more Greenlanders to come in and serve. Our view is that when this is a matter of common concern, the defence is not a Danish matter, which some may have a misconception of, but a common concern for the whole community of the Kingdom... all members of parliament should also be treated equally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907191107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907191111	Thank you very much. The people of Greenland are, in fact, hundreds of thousands of times smaller than they are in Denmark, so it puts things in perspective a little bit. But I think that when you look at the police in Greenland, which is also a Danish institution in Greenland society, you have been very good at educating Greenlandic police officers, and you have created a Greenlandic police school in Greenland. We have very good experience of this. When you get out as a Greenlandic police officer and meet a Greenlandic family, talk Greenlandic and know culture, it's a huge advantage. In the same way, I also think that this applies to defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907191151	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more inscribed to short remarks unless I see some hands right now. That does not seem to be the case, so thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue in the rapporteur's line and the next rapporteur is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907191213	Thank you very much. In Greenland, in Nuugaatsiaq at Uummannaq, we have recently experienced a natural disaster that has cost human lives. We have also seen boat accidents that have cost lives this summer. It has therefore been a summer that we can look back on with grief. The Kingdom community required mutual dedication and action. Arctic Command, Greenland Police, health care, local firefighters and, not least, very many volunteers helped. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Government in particular for allocating EUR 30 million. kr. to the disaster work and the recovery work. It is important that the preparedness is prepared as far as possible to deal with the many diverse challenges that Greenland can face, whether it is a matter of rescue at sea or on land. According to the Act of Self-Government, Greenland has the power to take back matters from Denmark when Greenland wishes to do so, thereby becoming the legislative and executive power in a given area. This is the case for the vast majority of areas. Until then, Greenland's government has an important role to play and fulfil precisely as a partner in a kingdom community and to ensure that the dialogue between Denmark and Greenland is strong and timely, and that the task solution in areas that are fully under Danish responsibility is always based on current data and current focus. I certainly believe that a common understanding in the Kingdom is important. It is important that we have common ground in areas where there are common issues and where we have common responsibilities; that we have the ability to understand each other's views with respect for language, culture and historical differences; that we have common understanding and common solutions that can at any time ensure confirmation of legislative definitions and obligations. The forthcoming financial law negotiations can set a new standard for our community, i.e. if the Folketing and the government choose to give priority to this. A long-term effort in close cooperation with Greenland is important. I therefore look forward to seeing political action in this Chamber for the long-term efforts that can benefit the whole Kingdom community. The government basis of VLAK states that the standard of Danish responsibilities in Greenland must correspond to the standard in Denmark with the special derogations that can be justified by the Greenlandic conditions. The government therefore gives priority to strengthening the legal area in Greenland with the proposed financial bill for the benefit of the security of its citizens. The last year has increased the focus on the area of justice in Greenland, among other things. in the form of studies by the Council of Lawyers, the Greenland Council for Human Rights and the Department of Human Rights in Greenland, as well as the report "Crime and justice in Greenland." In addition, there are major political debates in both Greenland and Denmark. All these players point out the need for a boost to the justice area in Greenland. The Minister of Justice has needed clear signals about priorities for Greenland, which has also been followed up by Naala Suisut. This autumn a plan of action with a wide range of different proposals for interventions will be published. The strategy and the action plan will serve as a contribution to formalised cooperation with the Danish Government on improving justice. Security for citizens in the area of justice is, among other things, the rule of law. the possibility of a Greenlandic language defender, formerly called bisids. Since the start of the work of the Legal Service Commission, Peqatigiiffik Illersuisut, the Association of Authorized Defenses in Greenland, has been represented in the important work in the area of justice in Greenland. The work of the Greenlandic members has been free of charge, while other members have received a fee during their annual meetings of the Council for the Law of Greenland. The President of Peqatigiiffik Illersuisut has now resigned, and the Association wishes to have membership on equal terms. Their opinion and experience are important and must be heard. Today, in 2017, there are wage differences between Greenlandic and Danish staff within the justice institutions. This is not just about police officers and asylum officers, but also about office staff and social professionals. The birth-place criterion, which guaranteed Danish labour a higher salary than people born in Greenland, was abolished in 1991. Greenland therefore strongly rejects the discrimination that is taking place today with the Ministry of Justice as an employer. Discrimination is not worthy of the Kingdom community. This autumn, the Danish Government is opening negotiations on the forthcoming criminal justice settlement, which will also include the Criminal Welfare Service in Greenland. In this context, it is important that the Greenlandic mandates in the Folketing are included in the conciliation circle. A pool of 40 million has been set aside. kr. over 4 years to the jurisdiction in Greenland. It is the Government's wish that this be done in cooperation with Greenland to ensure that the effort is best adapted to Greenlandic conditions. I look forward to contributing constructively to a good result for the benefit of legal certainty in Greenland. We all have an interest in the well-being of the citizens of the Kingdom community. A welfare society takes care of its citizens if they need help, and here too groups that are particularly difficult. This is the case in the social field. The vast majority of Greenlanders living in Denmark are self-supporting and well-functioning and actively contribute to Danish society. But not everyone does as well. We still have many who need help from society and a push to move forward in life. It has been necessary and still needs a special effort through the Finance Act in order to help this group of Greenlandic citizens in Denmark. As part of the 2013 rate pool, a strategy was developed for vulnerable Greenlanders and their children. A total of 13.4 million was allocated. kr. over 4 years to the strategy. The funds were to be used to strengthen efforts for vulnerable Greenlanders and their children, focusing on early action and networking and knowledge sharing between actors in the field. This year's draft budget provides for 1⁄2 million. kr. for an evaluation of the strategy for vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. I would remind the Minister for Children and Social Affairs that the Greenlandic houses have a great deal of experience and knowledge in this area, and it is absolutely important that their experience is taken into account in the evaluation process. The funding for the Greenlandic houses' inclusion efforts will continue in 2018 and 2019. I would like to acknowledge positively that 4 million will be set aside. kr. Annually, as was the case in 2013 and 2016. The initiative is incredibly important, and it is an essential factor in strengthening efforts for new Greenlanders and helping them establish a life in Denmark. Once again, I would like to welcome the latest pool of rates, where funds were set aside for specialised offers targeted at vulnerable Greenlanders. In addition to that, the Minister of Justice still has a great responsibility to ensure that across ministries, there is a great deal of understanding to realise the government's promise that the justice area in Greenland should be at the same level as it is in Denmark. This requires continued investment in the future as well as the implementation of new measures. In addition to the measures already mentioned in the draft budget, Greenland has pointed out several times to the Danish Government that there are more than 30 military areas in need of clean-up, and we would also like to see this given priority in the draft budget for the second reading. For a number of years, a strong call has been made from Inatsisartut and Naalakkersuisut and the Greenlandic mandates to the Danish government for an initiative to strengthen the security of Greenlandic settlements. 14 out of 60 villages are without police representatives in the form of municipal officers. Many meetings have been held and the government has come up with many different arguments and solutions, but one thing is certain: the pay and framework of the work is crucial for the lack of municipal managers in the settlements. But we have not seen any proposals for improvements in this area so far. The legal certainty in the settlements is not present. This is a situation which we have been witnessing for many years now. I think that's really sad. I hope that the Finance Act will also meet the need for legal certainty in the settlements in Greenland, as can be done in the cities. I look forward to constructive cooperation with the government in the work of a Finance Act worthy of all the citizens of the empire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192213	Thank you to the rapporteur. It is now open to short remarks. So far, I have only noticed one more brief remark. It's sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192226	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his fine speech. After all, it is no secret that I am a great supporter of a strengthened Kingdom community. That is why I was also pleased with the rapporteur's view of increased cooperation in areas such as justice, which the rapporteur says is precisely an area in which the government is now increasing its efforts, and I think that is also very much needed. On the one hand, we have a difference between Greenland and Denmark. I am well aware that the rapporteur is in favour of Greenlandic independence, but at the same time there are also areas where we have a great deal of equality and a very close community. That is why I was pleased to hear Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen's thoughts on, among other things. Increased cooperation in the field of defence. That is why I would be glad to hear the rapporteur's view of what is the same question as Mr Beazley. Rasmus Jarlov put it earlier: does the rapporteur share the view of increased cooperation with increased Greenlandic presence in the Danish defence?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192325	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192327	I agree very much with that. I think the majority of the population also agree with this. We have been calling for greater participation of our young people in the Danish Arctic Command in Greenland, both in terms of education, but also in terms of active participation in preparedness, also in the field of rescue both on land and at sea. This year, in the context of the North Greenland disaster, we have seen that Greenlandic society has a very strong cohesion and network that ensures that we stand by each other when it really matters, but here we have also shown how important it is that efforts should be strengthened to ensure that the educational background is in order so that we can provide even faster help, but also better help for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192425	The questioner with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192427	Thank you very much. I very much agree with those views, both because one of the areas where Denmark is making a very great effort is precisely with the defence, and this is one of the areas where we can be very good at cooperating. A cornerstone of that cooperation is, of course, a common language and the rapporteur feels that more should be done to promote the Danish language, among other things. the Greenlandic educational institutions, where, unfortunately, in my view, people have tried to rewind the Danish language a little bit? This is something that I fear can be detrimental to future cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192502	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192506	We have no fewer lessons in Danish in schools than we had in the past. We have more lessons in English now than we had before. So our language requirements for each other have also changed over time. But Danish is our second language, and English is our third language, and so it is until otherwise decided. If, at an earlier stage than today, Greenlandic young people see that their educational needs lie more in Denmark or in a Danish institution, I think that their efforts to learn Danish will certainly be much greater than they are today. So I believe that an earlier effort to choose the direction of education is the way forward to strengthen each other's linguistic knowledge, but not least the identification of the direction of education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192558	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no more brief remarks, so thank you. In fact, I do not see any more party rapporteurs, so the next speaker is the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907192621	Thank you. It goes well for Danish economy. That is the conclusion which not only the government draws, it is also the conclusion drawn by the economic wise men, by bank economists and other observers of the Danish economy, quite clearly. It's going well. After a long crisis, growth is back, employment is rising and unemployment is low. Since the 2015 parliamentary elections, 103,000 more private jobs have been created, 14,000 fewer on cash aid compared to what was a year ago, and the proportion of refugees in jobs has increased from under 10% when we had the SR government to over 24 per cent. Now. The latest forecast for the Danish economy shows that GDP growth this year will end at 2%. This is an upward adjustment compared to the May Economic Statement and the highest growth rate in the economy since 2006. We must safeguard our healthy economy and we must safeguard growth. Growth is therefore the basis for us to continue to develop Denmark. At the same time, we must pursue a responsible fiscal policy that supports sustainable recovery and counteracts capacity pressures in the economy. No one has an interest in overheating the economy and ending up in a new crisis. The government has just presented three major economic and political proposals. In these three proposals, we give priority to both investment in better welfare and investment in continued growth, and we do so within the framework of a responsible fiscal policy. We already knew before the presentation of the tax reform that when the Social Democratic Party is in opposition, the same worn record starts with the same false melody that there is no afford for both tax relief and welfare, that the government places far too much emphasis on tax relief and far too little on welfare. So let us look at what the financial bill actually contains. Approx. 500 billion. kr. for public consumption, especially for the welfare of municipalities and regions. At the same time, the government proposes to reduce taxes and charges in 2018 for approximately 5 billion. kr. net, i.e. approx. 500 billion. kr. to well-being and approx. 5 billion kr. to lower taxes next year. And for the tax cuts that we are proposing in 2018, there is also funding from the reserves from the first phase of the job reform and from the agreement for several years on the labour market as well as adjustments to transfer income. Only 0.5 billion. kr. therefore needs to be financed through the Finance Act. Nevertheless, the opposition, and especially the Social Democratic Party, hears that we have to choose between tax relief and welfare. It just doesn't hold up in real life. We can do both, and we have shown this with previous financial laws. In the 2017 Finance Act, we set aside money for cancer plan IV, 2.2 billion. kr. Total for the period from 2017 to 2020 and for the elderly. At the same time, we froze the land and lowered the registration fee. The same was true with the Finance Act for 2016. That is where we raised health with 2.4 billion. At the same time, we set aside one billion more for the dignity of the elderly, and we reduced the registration fee from 180 to 150 per cent. So there is the possibility of both raising welfare and getting lower taxes. The government presented a proposal on Tuesday last week for the second phase of job reform. With the initiative, we ensure that the recovery that has started can be extended, that it gets flying height and flight length, that there are enough hands to take hold as the economy approaches its maximum. It is fundamentally responsible and will help to dampen the capacity pressure in the economy in the short term compared to a situation where the money would have been spent on public consumption. In concrete terms, we propose that the Danes be allowed to keep a little more for themselves. We do this because we basically believe that ordinary hardworking Danes should have more economic air in everyday life. It must be worthwhile to work and make an extra effort. Fortunately, I also hear this from the Danish People's Party, while other parties in the Folketing basically refuse to recognise that it is actually possible to invest in our welfare while at the same time allowing the Danes to keep a little more for themselves. The government will also invest in Danish companies and jobs with the project •Together for future companies • To make sure that they are ready to take part in the opportunities of the future. We will, among other things. We already have many successful companies in the fields of medicine, toys, energy, textiles, clothing, etc., and we need a lot more of that. And then Denmark must have a stronger entrepreneurial and stock culture. Finally, with the 2018 Finance Bill, the government will continue to work to strengthen welfare, security and security as well as to bind Denmark better together. The government has given this priority to the financial laws of previous years, and the government will continue to do so in the agreements of the coming years with municipalities and regions on their economy. Last but not least, the government also gives priority to pursuing a responsible economic policy. We have therefore chosen to reduce deficits in public finances gradually in the years to come and to ensure that there is room for manoeuvre in the economy if there is a new setback. The government is specifically aiming for a deficit of 0.3%. of GDP in 2018, 0.1% in 2020 and balance sheet in 2025. We have chosen to give our financial proposal the title • A safe and coherent Denmark, and we do, because it is precisely Denmark that we want to create a secure and coherent Denmark, a Denmark where you can travel safely and safely as a citizen, where there is security about your work situation, where there is an opportunity to develop, and where we are connected across parts of the country and across levels of education. That is why we are setting out to give special priority to five areas: strengthening welfare with a focus on health and the elderly, security and security, a more coherent Denmark, the reconstruction of the tax administration and also the permanentisation of the housing job scheme, which is targeted at the service industries. It is easier to create a secure and coherent Denmark if we also have a prosperous Denmark. Growth in the economy, as we see this year, with 2% growth, must also continue in the coming years. Therefore, it is essential for us that our prosperity is the basis for creating a good welfare society, and the welfare area is indeed a high priority on the part of the government, regardless of the many comments made during the day. It is important for us that the Danes experience a personal and professional service when they or their loved ones need the community's help. The government has set aside a reserve of half a billion annually for investments in welfare, and there is a concrete focus on the close and coherent healthcare, including better treatment and care of elderly medical patients. The welfare reserve goes beyond the 1.3 billion increase in citizen-centred welfare. kr. next year, the government agreed with the Landsforening and Danske Regions before the summer holidays. Here, among other things, there were: Priority means of dignified care for the elderly. Finally, the government proposes a number of concrete actions for a total of approx. 800 million kr. to help society's most vulnerable, including: the social card, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned earlier, the fight against juvenile delinquency, the fight against homelessness. Those bets will be discussed with the parties behind the bet pool. When Denmark is to be a safe and secure country, it is also in order for the Danes to be able to move freely. Unfortunately, many Danes currently experience that security is under pressure from gangs, from terrorist sympathizers and from other criminals. Denmark's security in the world can no longer be taken for granted. With the 2018 Finance Bill, the Government will prioritise increased security and enhanced security in a number of areas, including: strengthening the police force in the context of a mid-term review of the multi-year police agreement, a new multi-year agreement for criminal justice, increased penalties for serious violence and a number of other initiatives. In addition, later this year the government will present a proposal for a substantial increase in defence. The government wants to ensure a Denmark in balance. The country must be more closely linked and all parts of the country must benefit from the recovery. That is why we have already taken a number of initiatives which will make it more attractive to live and live and operate outside large urban areas. With the 2018 Finance Bill, the government will present a number of further actions that will bind Denmark better together and contribute to the economic prosperity of all parts of the country. A well-functioning infrastructure is important for mobility and a coherent Denmark. The government will strengthen the infrastructure for the benefit of citizens and companies by among others. to lower the price of crossing Storebælt, create the possibility in rush hour traffic to drive in the emergency track on the West Funen Highway, begin upgrading the E45 along East Jutland and ensure higher speed on a number of selected highways and motorways and by investing in the possibility of speed upgrade. At the same time, we know that a number of Danes are plagued by a lot of noise along roads and state roads, and that is why we have set aside a pool to combat noise along the existing state roads. The government will also continue to place state jobs throughout the country. The next round of state jobs comes on top of the round of relocated jobs of 4,000 state jobs that the government has already relocated, and it is on top of the plan for the new tax administration that places an additional 1,500 jobs outside the metropolitan area. That is why a technical framework of 150 million has been set up. kr. to the next round of relocations. In addition to the government's five major priorities in the Finance Act, the Finance Bill contains a number of other initiatives. We invest in education and research, and the draft budget allocates nearly 400 million. kr. more for research in 2018, a quarter billion over the next 4 years for new preparatory initial training and 70 million. kr. annual to the free schools, especially in relation to pupils with special challenges. We invest in a more sustainable and green Denmark. The government will strengthen efforts to preserve the Danish coasts, future floods and erosion must be prevented, citizens, businesses must have access to better weather forecasts, and areas that are particularly challenged at extreme weather events must be identified so that they can be better and more effectively protected. At the same time, the government has an ambitious climate policy. Since 2015, the Paris Agreement has provided the framework for Denmark's climate policy, and since then Denmark has been active in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. From this point of view, the government's climate policy can be said to go on two legs an international as well as a national. This is an international leg in which we must ensure the proportion of global green conversion and reductions in global greenhouse gas emissions, including achieving the EU's reduction targets for 2020 and 2013. And this is a national leg where we have to show that climate action can support new business opportunities and create jobs for the Danes. Only by showing that the green transition is also economically sustainable can Denmark show the rest of the world that the Danish example is worth pursuing. In order to support a cost-effective climate and energy policy, in the new parliamentary year we will come up with a proposal for a new energy agreement to maintain Denmark as a leading climate nation in the future. The Finance Act is also a usual collection of large and small concrete improvements for Danes and the many skilled Danish employees who provide good welfare services to the Danes. In fact, I think that today's debate has been quite peaceful. The rather frugal appearance in this Chamber certainly bears witness to this, that is to say that there has not really been so much to go beyond the ritual exchange of scare pictures on the part of the opposition. And at the risk of destroying the good mood of any listener, it is probably appropriate to say a few words to some of the speeches. First of all, an improvement. It appears from the charts that if you blank an exam, it corresponds to a number of negative 3. Last year, the Social Democratic Party did not dare to table a financial bill at all, and if we were to gloss over the financial bill debate in this way, we deserve minus 3. This year we have had a piece of paper, but even this year we cannot achieve the character; on the contrary, we have to say that the answer indicates that the task has not been understood. A budget bill for 2018 containing more images of the party chairman than concrete figures of what Social Democracy will propose for 2018 has not passed. What does the Social Democracy want with the savings in the transformation of the non-profit sector? There is no answer, but you want to spend the money. What does the Social Democratic Party want with the efficiency of DSB? There are no answers. What will the Social Democracy do in terms of graduating child and young people's benefits? No answer. What does the Social Democratic Party want in relation to the ceiling on cash aid? No answer. What will the Social Democratic Party do in terms of rolling back tax relief for the HK, the LO or the Pedagogic Helper? There are no answers. I can certainly welcome the fact that the Social Democratic Party has started the printer this year, but I hope that the next few years will present a proposal that we can take more seriously. On the other hand, there is one person who is clear to me today, namely today's most mentioned person: cashier Annette Hansen from Køge. I actually think it's a shame that so many people have talked about Annette Hansen without really talking to her, so I've called her to hear what she's really saying to the government. Annette is actually quite excited about the prospect of a tax relief of DKK 5,000. She asks us, of course, whether it is DKK 5 000 which is tax relief, whether it is something that she has to pay taxes or what it really is. But after a conversation where I made it clear to her that it's 5,000 kroner. a year or more than 400 kroner. a month, she says: it can be felt in my economy. But, she says, will that mean you spend less on public welfare? No, I say so, it won't. Because it will be the case that we increase what we use for 2018 on public welfare. We spend more money on public welfare in 2018, and we plan to spend more money every year towards 2025. I think that Annette Hansen and everyone else in Annette's situation, who are hardworking Danes in Denmark, deserve more air in the everyday economy, and Annette Hansen will get that with this proposal. She'll get 5,000 kroner. more to herself, and I actually think she deserves that. At the same time, she will also benefit from what we finance with the Finance Act. She will benefit from the new super hospital that is being built in Køge, she will benefit from the extra 800 million. kr., which the municipalities have been made available in the agreement between the government and the National Association of Municipalities, she will benefit from the fact that we are preparing to strengthen nature efforts, the police, the primary school, improved coastal protection and a new effort against harmful chemistry. Then I would say that I always find it amusing to hear Enhedslisten's speech. It is a characteristic of a strong popular government like the Danish one that we can be good colleagues, even when we disagree as much as Mr. Pelle Dragsted and I. Sir. Pelle Dragsted believes, and I quote, that it is to grope for himself if the treasure is put down to groan. After all, it is a confession that Enhedslisten believes that wages and income are, in principle, the property of the state and that citizens should be happy to get some of it back. They must, as it were, rage to themselves if they are to be allowed to keep some of their own wages. I do not think so. Actually, I totally disagree. As a starting point, the Danes' salary belongs to the Danes, but when there are important welfare tasks that we have to solve together, you have to contribute it all so that the widest shoulders bear the heaviest burdens, and that was not a comment to Mr. Joachim B. Olsen. However, the government's tax proposal is also a clear indication of this, namely that there must be a proportion. The government's tax proposals will continue to do so. Then there was Mr. Pelle Dragsted an exchange of words on the Train Foundation DK. It's an agreement that the government isn't part of. It is known that we do not want to destroy the nature around Vejle Fjord with the new bridge that the majority want, just as we do not want to cut through the beautiful East Jutland with a new path alone to save a few minutes between Aarhus and Copenhagen for a large amount of billions. That is why we did not want to join the conciliation on the Train Fund DK. I recognize, however, that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht is right in saying that governments usually enter into conciliation, but we do not agree with the charge of the Togfonden DK. On the other hand, we have clearly stated that we would like to enter into the conciliation procedure on better and cheaper terms without making any demands at all, and I assume that with the exchange between Mr. Pelle Dragsted and Mr. Benny Engelbrecht that we will be accepted into the conciliation on the terms applicable to the other conciliation parties. I can't wait to confirm that. I would also like to congratulate the alternative for making a financial bill. It's one from last year, but I know you're working on presenting a new presentation. I'm looking forward to it. Again, although we do not agree, I acknowledge that you have done some work to present a completely different vision for Danish society. I do not agree with the dramatic increase in taxation that the alternative proposes, but I think it is good to see a concrete financial bill from the Danish Parliament's youngest party. The Parliament's second oldest party could learn something from this. With regard to the Radical Left, I shall be brief as the rapporteur is not here. I normally very much agree with the Radical Left's view of the economy and a responsible socio-economic line, but it is the case that, in the current situation, if tax cuts are granted, there will be an increase in the supply of labour. On the other hand, spending money alone on increased public spending only increases demand and will help create bottlenecks. Therefore, using the room for manoeuvre available for tax relief increases the number of hands and the number of heads available, either in participation or in hourly effect, and I think the Radical Left should actually recognise this. When the SF started its rapporteur's speech, I was a little unsure what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen really wanted to talk about. I found out later, a collection of Mandela citates, and that is actually excellent. He's always worth quoting. And now the radical rapporteur is present. I'm sorry I've gotten into this before. I would like to say to the SF that I actually think it should pay to work and I could not understand whether you in the SF are satisfied with the current situation. I could not understand whether you are satisfied that for the time being there are still 80 000 Danes for whom the benefit of getting into employment is less than 2,000 Dkr. a month, and when the tax reform agreed in 2012 is fully phased in, that figure will only have fallen to 50,000. I do not think that is satisfactory. The government does not find it satisfactory that so many people do not get a greater gain from getting into work. That is why we want to reduce the tax, and we want to do so in such a way that participation gains are increasing and increasing. That is why we have come up with a proposal which suggests that a HK employee at minimum wage will get 5,000 kroner. more available. So I would like to thank both IA and Mrs Aleqa Hammond for the nice words about the help that we have given to the victims in Greenland. It is clear that we must help each other, and when such an event takes place, there is no doubt that we are helping each other in a community of kingdoms. We also hope to be able to work together on the longer-term prevention and that the initiatives that are being made to create solutions in Denmark can also help Greenland forward-looking. I would also like to give a commitment to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen to continue the tradition that my predecessor has started by inviting the Greenlandic and North Atlantic members of the Folketing to a discussion on the Finance Act to see what are the corners of the Danish Finance Act, what is too desires of Greenlandic and Faroese, which we can get to fit together, so the Finance Act for 2018 also takes into account the wishes that must be from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. Then, of course, there have also been rapporteurs from the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. I would, of course, like to express my thanks for the support of the three parties and special thanks for the good and close cooperation on a daily basis with all three rapporteurs. It is probably no surprise that there was hardly much here I disagreed with or surprised by. Therefore, I would like to use the last part of the speech here to thank Mr. René Christensen and Dansk Folkeparti for a constructive speech. We don't agree with everything. It is not surprising either, but I am pleased that the Danish People's Party agrees that hardworking Danes should be allowed to pay less in taxes and keep more of what they earn to themselves. I also welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party prioritises security and security as part of having a good welfare society. And I note that the Danish People's Party has taken responsibility for a sustainable Danish economy through the agreements on phase I of the job reform from 2015 and more years on the labour market from June this year. Indeed, the two reforms have helped to secure funding of 3.5 billion. kr. to a lower tax on labour, to a reduction in the registration fee in the government's proposal and to ensure pension savings. I have also noted that the Danish People's Party wants to strengthen the elderly and health care. I understand. That is actually why the government has set aside a reserve of 0.5 billion. kr. to strengthen health and the elderly in particular. We must strengthen the close and coherent healthcare system, with the focus on older medical patients. As I have said, this is something that comes on top of the funds that have been allocated to the municipalities and Danske Regioner in addition to the 800 million. kr. set aside in the rate pool to support socially vulnerable. I also hear, of course, that the Danish People's Party is ready to add additional funds to the areas. We will have to discuss this further in the forthcoming negotiations. Summing up, I can say that the financial bill for 2018 shows the government's proposal •How to extend the recovery •Along with the companies of the future, and that it is possible to create space for both welfare and tax relief, that we can both invest in our healthy economy with good conditions, while investing in creating a higher employment. That is why, of course, I also hope that, in the course of the forthcoming negotiations, we will be able to find a majority in the Folketing for good and sustainable agreements. We are already well in the process of discussing car taxation, and later in the autumn we will be opening negotiations on next year's Finance Act. I hope and call for all parties in the Folketing to pull their clothes on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195053	Thank you very much to the Minister. We are now opening up the short remarks. I have some of the rapporteurs on the list, and there are also some who are not rapporteurs. But immediately we will be able to keep it within the 60 minutes we have for such a debate as we are going to have to do now. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195115	Thank you and thank the Minister for his review. I would simply have been too polite to comment on the lack of attendance among the representatives of the Blue Block in the Danish Parliament, but now the Minister of Finance himself has opened it up, and I think it has to be said that with the modest attendance that has taken place today, one really doubts how much support is actually within the government's ranks for the government's own policy. Oh, enough about that. I find it very strange that the Minister for Finance does not reply to Annette Hansen in Køge more sincerely, because when Annette Hansen was 32 years old, we politicians decided that she should retire later, and that was to ensure that there was money for welfare now and in the future. And when Annette Hansen asks the excellent question, whether it means that there will be less welfare, then the clear-cut answer from an honest finance minister should of course have been: Yes. However, the Minister's reply is wrong, and so we find ourselves in exactly the same situation as we have been in all the time about the fictional HKs that do not exist, but which, with their calculations, have tried to draw a picture of getting the most out of tax reform and more than the director. Why can't the Minister of Finance and the government just tell the truth as it is? If tax relief is given priority, there is not so much left to the welfare that we have all ensured by this room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195303	I would just like to appeal to you to look at the seconds, even if we can do it in one hour. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195309	Thank you. It is the case that the room for manoeuvre, which was estimated to be approx. 35 billion kr., is created by many initiatives. It was created by the 2009 tax reform, created by the 2011 pre-retirement reform, created by the recovery package and the unemployment benefit reform in 2010. It is created through many different sources. The funds we created in the 2006 welfare agreement were among others: invested in research and development, they were invested in raising our research efforts to 1%. of GDP, they were used to boost our educational efforts, and there are very, very many who have benefited from this, and Denmark will also benefit from this in the future. What Annette Hansen asked was whether more money would be spent in the coming years on welfare. And yes, there will be. In the space available, we have set aside approx. 8 billion. kr. to cover lower taxes, but we have set aside 18 billion. kr. to the welfare boost in terms of growth in public consumption and investment in public roads, lanes, IT infrastructure, etc. So there will be significantly more money for welfare and investment than there will be set aside for tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195428	The questioner with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195432	The Minister has actually quoted Annette Hansen for two different things now on two different issues. Is it even the Minister himself who spoke to Annette Hansen, or is it a spin doctor? You may begin to doubt it, especially considering that you are working with many fun elements here. The Minister also mentions this contradiction here in looking at financial effects, tax relief against public spending, and there I have to ask the Minister why it is that it is said that there should be some special advantages in granting tax relief, at a time when the Minister himself has replied to Question No. 241 in February, that the financial effects of, for example, top tax incentives already in the year 2 will be greater than the financial effects of public consumption and, overall, if the different financial effects are compared, they will be somewhat marginal even in some of the early years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195531	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195534	However, I have never seen anyone, when a minister is standing on the floor of the Parliament, even if it is in here, saying that a telephone call has been made, questioning it. It was then found out later that it was not appropriate for a then Social Democratic President who had not completed the telephone calls that have been claimed. I carry out the calls I say I make, and I should like to greet Annette Hansen and say that she is looking forward to a tax relief. She wants 400 kroner. more a month to himself in consumption. It is essential, and it can be felt in her economy. Then she would also like us to ensure that we invest in welfare, that we have good hospitals, a good education system, and that is why it is important, both for her and for me and for the government, that next year we will spend more money on welfare than we have done this year, and that in the years to come we will be spending more money on welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195631	The next short remark is Mr. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195639	Thank you. First of all, thank you to the Minister. Because it is the case that when you have these debates, you always find it to discuss things that you do not agree with. But I would like to sign off on the fact that a major reinvestment in SKAT is being put in place so that we can get confidence back in SKAT and get the joy of work back in SKAT. In other words, we are also pleased that there are police and defence involved in the government's action. We're glad you have such a thing as primary school in the playout. So that's not all we don't agree with. Another point I would like to make is the 2-percent requirement for the rationalization of health care. I do not think it surprises the Minister that it is something that matters to the Danish People's Party. I would just like to ask the Minister if the Minister does not agree with that too, because I know that the minister is that the 2 percent requirement has actually been quite good, it has worked and the regions have actually delivered a great deal for the money they have received. But the time has come for the 2-percent requirement to disappear. Maybe it was supposed to be gone a few years ago. So if there is an opportunity to remove it in 2018, also in cooperation with the regions, after they have reported positively that their budgets can come later, is it not something that the minister really sees as positive, that is, that the regions have made that announcement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195747	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195748	I make deals, and then I keep them. And when I have made an agreement with Danske Regions that we should jointly look at which steering tool can be developed to improve the requirement that is now, that is to say, arrive at a better steering tool, yes, then I will comply with that agreement. The agreement is that we have to get going now and we have already set up the committee on it. I expect the work to be in progress and that you are about to find out what is good and what is bad about the 2-percent requirement. For there is no doubt that this has been good and has helped to create higher productivity and thus ensure that more patients could be treated. Of course, there are also some things that need to be taken into account: does this mean that more consultations are being held in order to comply with the 2-percent requirement? But it is actually included in the current regime that it can be taken into account. There is, for example, there. Region of Southern Denmark, which has had applications to take account of the fact that they are bringing together consultations and thus having fewer of them without a negative impact on their compliance with the 2-percent requirement. Now we're looking at it together. At least I keep my appointments. I assume that Danske Regioner also adheres to theirs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195900	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195903	So what is left of us thinking, was that a positive or a negative answer? But I am wearing the positive glasses, and what I also hear the Minister say is that one agrees that the challenges are too great with the 2-percent requirement. Something else needs to be done instead. It's had its lifespan. And then, of course, with an agreement, there are always two to make. I therefore agree that we must stick to Denmark's contractual system. We have to protect that. It works really well. In fact, it is also the case that an agreement has been made between all the major parties in the Folketing to vote in favour of the agreements which the regions and the government make at any time, no matter what colour the government has. But what I hear the Minister say after all is that an agreement is being kept. However, is it not the case with agreements that if one party says that we should talk about the agreement again, the Minister will refuse to talk to the regions about whether there was an opportunity in 2018 when one party now raises its hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907195951	I think I'm going to talk a lot with Danske Regions about a lot of different things. So I'm going to talk to them too during autumn 2018. However, we have a common agreement and a common understanding that we must work together to look at what has been positive, what is challenging about the current 2-percent requirement, and how together we formulate a better steering tool. We have speeded that up, among other things. to be sure that it can be ready for assessment in the context of the 2019 economic agreements. It was a clear wish from Danish Regions. We've delivered that wish. Of course, I insist that we deliver on that wish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200035	We shall continue in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur for a brief comment is Mr Beazley. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200044	Thank you. I also think that Annette Hansen deserves a tax relief, as do other low-paid Danes. I also think that Annette Hansen's father and mother, if she has such people who are retired, deserve tax relief or if she has colleagues who have ended up on early retirement because of an accident at work, they also deserve tax relief. But first of all, I think that Annette Hansen deserves the Minister of Finance to be honest with her, because of course you cannot spend the money twice. The money that is spent on lowering the tax • unfortunately many of them at the top • can't be spent on welfare. That's the first thing. The next thing the Minister for Finance forgets to tell Annette Hansen is where the last 5 billion. kr. kr. And I have heard this about the children's check and profit principles, but we all know that it never comes close to 5 billion. kr. The minister owes Annette Hansen and the rest of the Danes a clear answer to who has to pay the bill, for everyone would like a tax relief. But is it Annette Hansen's parents if they're folk pensioners who have to pay? Is it her kids if they're students who have to pay? Is it her former colleagues who have to pay early retirement? Can we not get a clear guarantee today from the Minister that the 5 billion? kr., which you will grab in the transfer system, are not taken from either folk pensionists, early retirementists, sick people or students? Just a clear answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200228	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200230	I really think that early retirement and old-age pensioners are allowed to pay less in tax, but when we have chosen to target our tax relief the people who are in work, it is because there is an effect. And the biggest challenge I see for the Danish economy at the moment is that the recovery is getting so strong that the resources for the jobs created are hard to find in Denmark. It can result in two things. This can either result in wage increases and bottlenecks and a start to an overheating as we have seen in the past, or it can result in Danish companies choosing to move out of Denmark and put their production elsewhere than in Denmark. I think we should choose a third way. I think we should choose a route where we increase the supply of work and increase the number of hands and heads available. To do so, we are presenting a tax relief in the form of the proposal that we have made. It is true that there are some adjustments to transfer incomes, and that is one of them. the question of introducing more profit principles; it is the question of introducing participation fees for Danish education; and it is the question of setting a ceiling on what child benefit can be obtained in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200346	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200348	The important word that came from the Minister was the small word, among other things, because reality is, and everyone who has insight into the public economy knows that you cannot find 5 billion. kr. with the examples given by the Minister. If you're gonna find 5 billion. kr., you must either get out and get your hands in the pockets of the large groups of transfer income recipients. It's the folk pensionists, it's the early retirementists, and it's the students or make a generally lower adjustment to the transfers. That's reality. But we just have to say that we cannot get an answer. But then folk pensioners and early retirement and students just have to wait while the government negotiates with the Danish People's Party behind closed doors. Then they'll have to go and duck and hope that they're not the ones that's gonna get hit this time. I just think it is a pity that you cannot give a clear answer, either to the Folketing or to the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200436	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200437	I think it is quite reasonable that we should make a contribution before we can enjoy it. I think it is fair that people who come to Denmark contribute to the welfare society before they receive from the boxes that are to transfer income. That is why we have a number of areas where we have proposed more use of profit principles. We're not there yet. There are a number of other areas where profit principles can be used. The question is, of course, how much profit is required before you get to where you can say that you have now contributed enough to be in the situation of being able to receive from public funds. We will, of course, have to negotiate this, and we have agreed in the agreement • More years on the labour market from June this year that we should sit down with the Danish People's Party and discuss it here in the autumn. That is what we must do in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200527	Thank you. And I will continue in the rapporteur's line. The next one I have on my chart is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200537	Thank you to the Minister for Finance for the nice words of the Alternative and the Alternative Finance Act last year, but that should not prevent me from asking some critical questions, because I find it strange that nobody in here is talking about Annette Hansen's grandchildren. How do we ensure that there is a proper climate at all for Annette Hansen's grandchildren? How do we ensure that we leave a planet for her grandchildren to breathe and ensure that there are no floods, hurricanes, storms that drive millions of people to flee? It is said that we are the first generation to know the extent of the world's problems, but we are actually the last to do something about them. So my question to the Minister for Finance is, of course, climate accounting. I understand that the Minister for Finance cannot necessarily present such precise CO2 it is not my table; climate is not my table. So I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: is climate not also the table of the Minister for Finance? Is not the climate also all of the ministers in the government's table? Isn't that supposed to be concocted? So will the Minister of Finance inform the Danish Parliament of the consequences of the Finance Act in relation to the climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200705	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200707	I'd be surprised if there weren't any critical questions. This is just like what this hour is devoted to, but I still think that I will give an honest and open answer. Climate is also my table. Climate is my table as finance minister, as a man, as a father, not as a grandfather thank God for what it would be too early, but it is my responsibility. It is everyone's responsibility, and it is also the responsibility of the government. This is among other things. Therefore, that we would like to support a transition to an electricity society, that is, a transition to using more electricity on different conductors, because electricity is a fantastic source of energy. Unlike coal, unlike heat, unlike other forms of energy production, electricity can be transported very far, it can be used in many different contexts. If we can convert Denmark into a more electricity-based society, we will take a good step. It's gonna take something. It requires some knowledge of how to conceive. It requires some knowledge about how to store and store, and it also requires some knowledge about how we can move from the situation we have today, where we actually tax electricity quite high, to a situation where we can support an electricity society. That is one of the reasons why this autumn we will come up with a proposal for a climate and energy agreement. We must also work internationally to do more, which is why I am glad that later this month we will be presenting an SDG or the World Target Fund, which is 6 billion. kr. large, which will help to invest in activities that support the global goals around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200843	The questioner would like to make a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200847	Thank you for the answer, which was also, at least initially, quite personal in relation to being a father, because it is, of course, the future of our children and our grandchildren that we take care of in this Parliament too. The Minister for Finance's answer is very fine, but it still surprises me that one chooses to save away the green national accounts. I simply do not understand that. It is peanuts in the main context, so I would like to have a confirmation from the Minister for Finance that, of course, it will continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200921	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907200923	It is the case that, although the temporary appropriation for green national accounts has expired, we are still going to make a slim green national accounts. It is actually part of some of what Denmark has helped to introduce through the EU, namely that all EU countries must have an inventory of what their national accounts are in such a green or energy, nature and climate context. We have also indicated that we will have to discuss this further in connection with the implementation of the series of recommendations we received from the circular economy council, and that is why what is happening in the budget law is that the special allocation that has been is no longer, but that we are still working on making a slim green national accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201008	That was the last question from the questioner. We will continue in the series of questions and I look at the radical rapporteur to be sure that he has marked. So here you go to the radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201024	Thank you very much. Following on from the last question, one might well have feared that the government had dropped the green national accounts because it no longer wanted to be measured on the green indicators, just as the poverty line has been dropped. But let me start with two more factual questions. If I heard the Minister for Finance correctly in his speech, he came to say "because I think it might have been a statement" that the state budget would not balance until 2025. However, I have understood that it will balance in 2021, which I very much hope, and that is because we already in the Radical Left actually think it is wrong to borrow money in 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 to make tax cuts, that is, at a time when the Danish economy is doing very well. We think, in fact, that the state's finances should be in order as early as 2019, given that you actually have the money for it. The second is that I can then understand that the Minister of Finance disagrees slightly with our assessment of the labour supply effects of the government's proposals, and then I would just like the Minister to confirm that the package we made in the SR government in its time, which Lars Løkke Rasmussen called a fine little agreement, gave 9,000 in the labour supply effect for a significantly smaller tax relief, whereas the government's significantly greater tax relief gives 7,600, that is to say significantly less, among other things. Because you put the money away on things that don't really give a job offer effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201155	First of all, it is not a mistake to say that our budget will be balanced in 2025. That's where it balances, too. But Mr. Martin Lidegaard is quite right that it balances in 2021. It is the case that the deficit we have is being repaid so that we have a deficit of 0.1 by 2020 and balance by 2021. Then we have a few years with a modest plus structural, before we expect that from 2026 and unfortunately a number of years ahead there will be a modest minus. When I say modestly negative, it is precisely because the initiatives taken by the government have tightened up the hammock, and the fact that the deficits are becoming smaller than was believed a year ago, that we can afford to spend a little more now and here, so that we can postpone the year for a single year for when we have a balance on government budgets. This leaves room for us to do some things now because we have tightened up in the future. So, in relation to the ER government's tax proposal, it is true that there was a greater supply of labour than what is in ours. As I remember, this is also due to some of the funding that was behind it, which is one of the main reasons for this. the downgrading of the adjustment of transfer income, so that a couple of early retirement pensions, once the new scheme was fully phased in, would receive approx. Twelve thousand less for themselves than would have been obtained without the form of financing that was in the tax proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201331	Sir. Martin Lidegaard with the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201334	I am pleased that the Minister for Finance can confirm that our tax package was better in the sense of the word. I understand the government wants to cut 51⁄2 billion. kr. on transfer income this time, so let's leave the funding. When I ask, it is because we have a sincere interest in trying to get in and pull some of the worst thistles out of the government's bouquet, because in this way we are helping to ease the tax on work in a balanced way. We do not like the idea of borrowing money in the nursery, nor do we like the idea of cutting youth education and thus lending money in the classroom, and we would like to have an influence on that, and that is why there is now a more political question: why is it that the Minister of Finance has reported very offensively, that he does not want either radicals or Social Democrats or anyone else into the negotiating room when it comes to registration fees? We want to make a narrow majority, we simply do not want other parties to enter. I think that is a very strange announcement from a finance minister. And is the same true in all the other areas of the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201440	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201441	I would like to see more parties around the table, but there is a prerequisite. Because with the government's proposal for phase II of job reform, under which lower registration fees are part of the game, there is a price for participating, and the price is that you will help to raise the funding. That's how it is at Christiansborg, so it's not new. It is quite normal that if you are to be involved in using funds from a conciliation agreement, you also have to be involved in voting for a settlement, and the funds that have come come from phase I of job reform, and that is the ceiling on cash benefits, that is integration benefit, that is the 225-hour rule. I do not believe that the Radical Left has indicated its support and would support ensuring that the services that we know them continue. If you do not want to contribute to the funding, then you do not want to use the proceeds that have come.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201533	The next is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201540	Thank you. The Minister for Finance said he wasn't quite sure what my speech was about, but it's pretty simple: I went through what we would have liked to see this money spent on. I also know that the Minister for Finance has seen our draft budget that we have made this year. And if there was anything to come for, there might have been some criticism from the Minister for Finance. But it's fair enough that we disagree. That's why we have this discussion about what the money is for. I just think we should talk clearly about what the consequences are of not putting money off for welfare in relation to demographic features plus wealth etc. It is actually a little technical discussion, but you just have to be honest about it and say: No, you can't have it all, and there are some who have to pay it. Now the finance minister was just talking about his role as a father. My mom was this HK we're talking about, the single mom. I think she'd like 400 kroner. a month, but not at the expense of having proper day care for her children, a proper school that her daughters could be the first in the family to get a long higher education • all those things that we jointly fund. I just have to ask again there and that is a question that has been asked several times: who is going to pay these over 5 billion? kr.? We can't get an answer to that. The government has proposed that the bill be paid, but you will not answer whether it is the early retirementists, whether it is the students or who it is. We will have to have a discussion on this when we have this debate today, because it does not matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201718	I would like to acknowledge that the SF has published a financial bill, very concrete and with clear figures. Of course, I do not agree with all of them, but I recognise that a piece of work has been done to which one can relate. If I am going to find a single area where we agree, then it is actually the area of continuing training that is lifting up. That is why my colleague, the Minister for Employment, is currently engaged in tripartite negotiations aimed precisely at targeting and increasing our efforts in continuing education and training. I think it is incredibly important in the situation we are in, where we lack skilled labour, that we also take the opportunity to gradually, you might say, step by step to lift the people on the labour market closer to skilled training. In relation to having good schools and day care institutions, I would say that I think we have that too. With the draft Finance Act here and with the agreement with the National Association of Municipalities from this summer, it is actually the case that we increase the room for manoeuvre that the municipalities have for themselves, among other things. by making it more efficient. We are removing administrative and bureaucracy which has bothered the municipalities, for a total of 1 billion. kr. Then we are asked where the funding will come from. And there I would like to say that we are not getting any closer than what I have already said. We will have examined the possibilities for better use of profit principles in the benefit system. We will look at what the participation fee should be on the Danish courses that are, because we think it is reasonable that those who come to Denmark and want to learn Danish also help to pay for the courses that are coming. And in our view it is reasonable to introduce a graduated child and youth benefit, like what we had, the last left was in government with the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201902	The rapporteur has just made a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907201904	Thank you. But everyone can see that even if we introduced a principle of income for the children's cheque, which we are opposed to cutting, it would not come close to the over 5 billion. kr. As several of my colleagues have said, you have to get in there and touch something that a lot of people need regardless of whether it's a student or whether it's pensioners or early retirement to just get close to this amount. I think it was my colleague, Pelle Dragsted, who said that this is, after all, in the order of ten ceilings for cash aid. It's not a change. This is something that is going to affect people's lives to such an extent, especially those who need it. At the same time, tax and business packages have been presented which increase inequality to such an extent. That is why I do not think it is fair to say that we are not getting any closer. It is the government's job and commitment and privilege to put forward a draft Finance Act, but without this we cannot discuss it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202006	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202007	I think that has been going very well all day, that is to say, discussing it. In this way, there has been a fairly good discussion and a lot of questions on the part of the various rapporteurs who have been involved. However, the point is that I believe that profit principles can be introduced for a large number of the benefits that we have today. We are not at all in line with what can be done in terms of making profit principles in a number of areas where too many people today receive something without having contributed. It may be that we disagree, but I think it is a fair and good principle that you provide before you enjoy contributing to Danish society before you receive anything from Danish society that you are able to prove that you are an active part of Danish society before you get the same rights as those who have been here and helped build Denmark up from the beginning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202057	I will check if there are any more party rapporteurs who wish to speak. This does not seem to be the case, so we will turn to the others who have wanted short remarks, and I have eight on the list for now, so I will look at the seconds now. I have been rather generous with the rapporteurs because I thought it was important in the debate to have both questions and answers formulated, also to the satisfaction of those who follow the screen. But we also have a time-frame for today's debate itself, which can only take one hour. The first to a brief remark is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202142	Thank you. After all, I am an older rapporteur, and after the government announced its tax reform, I have received a great many requests from pensioners in this country. After all, the government has chosen to spend over 8 billion dollars. kr. of our common savings, what is called the room for manoeuvre, even though it was agreed at the time that the Danes would retire a little later to ensure that we would also have the money when there was an increasing number of older people. And that's what we're in right now. By 2025 there will be more than 150,000 more elderly people over 70 years of age. This corresponds to about three times Herning laid next to or around where everyone would be over 70 years of age. It may give a picture of what the challenge we are facing is. I say hello to the elderly who have written to me that they feel cheated. They feel like they've been giving in a long life about giving and enjoying and then they're seeing a tax reform with a big round zero for them. And, unfortunately, it gets worse even • Possibly for the folk pensionists, because the government will save over 5 billion. kr. In the case of transfers, that is one of the reasons for this. the retirement pension. That is why I have actually given myself a very important task here today, namely to ask the Minister for Finance whether he cannot give a guarantee today that the 5.25 billion. kr., which must be found on the transfers, is not found with the folk pensionists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202306	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202307	I think there are two factual things that need to be settled first. One is that it is not a good 8 billion. kr., unless you use good in a counterproductive perspective. The normal interpretation of the word "good" in the Danish language is that it is more than "good." The truth is, it's less than 8 billion. kr. of the common saved room for manoeuvre that we use. The second thing is where the room came from. Mrs Astrid Krag sounds as if the only thing that has contributed to the room for manoeuvre we have today is the welfare agreement that was concluded in 2006. In fact, what helps to provide the room for manoeuvre today is just as much the 2009 tax reform, the 2010 daily allowance agreement and the 2011 pre-retirement reform. Each of them has contributed to much more of the room for manoeuvre than many small agreements. And if you add the three agreements together, it is far more than the room for manoeuvre that exists today. I do not think that pensioners have reason to feel cheated, and they do not want that either when we are done negotiating, I can promise. You're cheated if you get less. I won't be cheated if Mrs Astrid Krag gets a bigger Christmas present than I get. Then I just want to be happy for Mrs Astrid Krag. I won't be cheated if Mrs Astrid Krag gets a bigger tax relief than I could get. Then I must rejoice on behalf of Mrs Astrid Krag. I think it should be welcomed that we are a strong society, a rich society where there is room for both welfare and tax relief.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202438	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202439	But I would say to the Minister for Finance that the Minister for Finance can just check how the Elders case reacted when the government's tax reform came into play. They felt cheated. And when we see that 5.25 billion is to be saved. kr. It would be incredibly easy for the Minister of Finance tonight to reassure the many folk pensioners who sit out there and are already worried about whether the money is now there for welfare, as they grow. It was with the three times Herning, where everyone is over 70 years of age, right now. Maybe we can't close that. However, the issue of transfers, whether the Minister of Finance can only guarantee that it is not a question of cutting the retirement pension, that it is not about hitting people's pensioners on the housing allowance or the green cheque, is very, very simple, and it would be so nice to be able to reassure the many folk pensioners who follow the debate and are concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202534	I actually think most Danes feel like me, namely that you don't get cheated by others getting better. You know, you don't get cheated by your neighbor being okay. You don't get cheated by someone in your family getting a good job or getting a lottery prize. Nor is it cheated by the tax relief granted to some others. You get cheated if you see that something you have is taken from you, and I am pretty sure that the elderly will not feel cheated when we are done negotiating. On the contrary, I think they will see that we have given priority to our reserve for welfare, which must go to medicine and the elderly, especially to the close health services and the elderly medical patients. You will see that they will have a better life once the Finance Act has been agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202620	The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Morten Bødskov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202631	Thank you for that, President. I think it has to be said that it sounds so relatively hollow, to put it very nicely, that we have a Finance Minister who is standing by and kissing the opposition that no budget bill has been tabled when we have spent half an hour trying to figure out how the government intends to fill up the gap in its own draft budget, which is for 2022, of 5.25 billion. kr. to be recovered from transfers. I have been the rapporteur for the financial sector. I think we have been the rapporteurs for the financial sector together. I have never seen a government that was unable to say how it intended to finance such a gigantic hole as it is now hidden. Isn't that just straight? In other words, what the Minister of Finance is hiding, which he will not tell us, is very simple. If you have to find such large amounts here, you have to get in really with the rough file. So what the finance minister is hiding, which he won't tell you, it may be that he is nervous about demonstrations outside Christiansborg in connection with the presentation of the Finance Act... isn't it that you have to cut the candidate part of the SU, you have to reduce the daily allowance for students who can't get a job, and then you can find something else in the goose-eyes... petty on some profit principles? Isn't reality the fact that that's what you're out on the government side, you just don't dare tell the truth? Because if you had left it in your financial bill, there would have been plenty of demonstrations at Christiansborg Palace Square. Isn't that the three things the Minister of Finance is hiding that he won't tell us today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202804	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202806	Now this part of the Danish Parliament's discussions is called short remarks. It is not called questions-answers, but short remarks. So now there is a brief comment that contains a question. Part of what we have pointed out is to place a graduated ceiling on child benefit. On 25 May 2016, the Social Democratic Integration Rapporteur, Mr. Dan Jørgensen, that he wanted to reinstate the ceiling which had been under the VK government but which had been removed under Mrs Mette Frederiksen and Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt. Will the Social Democratic Party help restore the ceiling promised by Mr. Dan Jørgensen? We will then be able to clarify how much is to be found in addition. So one answer: will the Social Democrats join in, as Mr. Dan Jørgensen promised, or not?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202853	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907202856	I have stood on this platform many times, but I never think I have ever experienced the need to help a government fill the gap. It is the government's duty to present a Finance Act which clearly shows how you intend to fill up the gap that you are leaving behind. What the Minister of Finance is saying here is a total admission that you have no answer. You have to ask the Social Democrats to help fill a gap. Then we have come a little along the way, said the Minister, and that is a total admission that you have no answer to how to reach the 5.25 billion. kr., or at least you won't tell it now how to reach the 5.25 billion. kr. in 2022. So I am just asking: what the Minister of Finance is saying is that the Minister of Finance is rejecting the government's intention to cut the S.U.S. so that you cannot get the S.U.U. from bachelor's office up to the point where students who move to unemployment benefit will not have a reduction in their daily allowance, and what you might then come up with is, as the Minister says here, to come up with some benefits. But with regard to the other two great things, can the Minister deny that they are being touched?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203003	I believe that the rapporteur knows very well that there is an SU conciliation that is valid until 2018 and therefore no changes can be made unless the entire conciliation circle agrees. I would have liked to have had an answer to my question, because it has puzzled me that Mr. Dan Jørgensen was so ready in May last year to reinstate the ceiling on child and youth benefits that the VK government had had, but which the Social Democratic led government had removed again. So you have regretted the policy you had while you were in government. Well, then it should be pretty simple for sir. Morten Bødskov or another social democrat to answer what you really think about child benefit. We cannot get an answer to what we think of a very specific proposal. I think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203050	The next brief remark is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203055	Thank you so much. I am almost next door to Lars Larsen in Silkeborg, which often has a good offer. And I thought that I would like to make a good offer to the Minister of Finance: an offer that we can save a little on government expenditure and employers' expenses • and then we are right on the bourgeois track • because then it could be that we could get together. There is an expense which is perhaps one of the worst costs we have in society, namely the 80 billion. kr. that we spend on people who get hurt at their workplace. 80 billion. kr. The Minister for Employment says a year, Mr. Troels Lund Poulsen that it costs society in terms of production losses, hospital costs, pensions, treatments etc. Shouldn't we one day sit down and try to figure out how with a small investment we can get a very, very large return? I think we can get a higher return than the best stocks that can be bought on the market. If we did just a little preventive investment, we could get a big return, and then all those people wouldn't be subjected to that torment, and there are also some of them who die of it. Shouldn't we, sir? Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203202	Yes. In other words, if we can sit down and find out that with an additional investment we can save money in the public sector if we can save people from accidents and avoid tragic fates that an accident at work can cause, I am actually interested in that. What is only the challenge is that many have ideas about how to invest and spend money, but few have the key to how it really will ultimately be a saving. If there's anyone there, and it could be mr. Christian Juhl, who has ideas for it, I am always open to drinking a cup of coffee and having a discussion of it. Of course, I cannot give an undertaking that we can agree, but the start of agreeing is usually that you sit down and talk to each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203247	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203248	Fine, but at first we don't even have to spend extra money compared to last year. We can start by cancelling the reduction on the Labour Inspectorate, which for example. is planned in this budget. In the spring, the Minister for Employment told us that it is possible that we have destroyed the Labour Inspectorate so much that it does not work effectively and that we may need to correct it. Instead of firing 24 men, we could keep them and see if they could get us some extra bucks for a little improvement. If it could then be a major improvement next year, then we could be able to invest slowly until it no longer provides a return. Wasn't that an idea? After all, it is not very much money that will be needed for the Labour Inspectorate to work again. We agree with the Minister that our health and safety efforts are actually in ruins; this also applies to Plan 2022, which is now being completely changed because it has not delivered what it should deliver.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203338	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203339	It is precisely on the way to addressing the challenges of the work environment. I know that the Minister for Employment has worked with the area and takes the area very seriously. We have chosen from the government to say that the entire public sector must contribute a 2% re-prioritisation contribution. to be able to invest purposefully in those areas where we want to make a special effort. This means that you will be able to see that there are some areas that deliver into the re-prioritisation contribution, but it is a re-prioritisation contribution that means that we invest in some other places in the public sector. I'm not an expert on how the health and safety system works today, but I always have coffee on the pot, also for Mr. Christian Juhl, for a talk about how we together can ensure Danish economy a stronger position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203430	That was the end of this brief remark. The next brief remark is from Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203439	Thank you. What we see is a finance minister and a government that manipulates roughshod. First, you make a tax reform that is fucked up and get it to slide down with the Danes, you make a gross manipulative example where you put a HK's rent to be equal to what a director pays in rent. And then you make the tax reform look like something that it isn't. It is grossly manipulative and misleading. This evening, the Minister for Finance spoke to Annette, and in fact he has also directly manipulated her in that telephone conversation. It is clear that Annette will be happy to receive a tax relief, but right afterward she asks quite wisely: What does that mean for my welfare? Will there be more money for welfare? There the Minister of Finance chooses to answer that there is. But everyone knows it's manipulation. Because what Annette's asking is, is welfare getting better? Can we get better welfare despite tax cuts? And as the Minister for Finance answers, he knows that this is not correct. Because if one takes account of the demographic trait, welfare will be worse. That is why the Minister of Finance first manipulates the Danes and then directly against Annette.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203551	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203552	Well, it's nice to see Mr. Simpson. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has come and brings some energy into the discussion. It's just a shame it's on such a wrong basis. There's no tampering at all. Specific figures have been provided on the basis of concrete calculations carried out according to the same methods as have been done in the past. And this has shown that this means that a HK's at minimum wage will get 5,000 kroner. More to himself. It is a fact that no one has doubted, and it will be a significant boost, also for Annette Hansen. And what we do in the future is that we give more money to welfare, that we spend more money on public spending than we do today. In 2018, we actually raise the level in the municipalities by 800 million. kr. more than what has been agreed. And we do this because we actually think it is important that the municipalities can afford to provide good care for the elderly, a good primary school, a good care for our children. So in 2018, more is being given than is being given this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203658	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203700	The Minister for Finance is well aware that when there are more older people, more money will be needed for the public sector than the government has dropped out of. And that is why it is manipulative when the Minister of Finance says those things about public welfare. It is getting worse, and the Minister for Finance knows very well that when Annette asks if there will be more money for welfare, despite tax relief, she asks if we will have better welfare. And yet you choose to answer the factual question in this way, in spite of knowing better. I think you should answer Annette and the Danes properly, and I think you should also answer the Danish Parliament on how to find the 5.25 billion. kr., which has yet to be financed in its draft budget.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203737	The memory is quite, quite short from the Social Democratic Party, scary short. A few years ago, when you were in government, there was an average growth in public consumption of 0.2 per cent, while there was a demographic move of 0.5 per cent, i.e. a difference of 0.3 per cent. Less was spent on growth compared with demographic trends. Then we asked if it meant that welfare would be worse. And we asked a great many ministers in the then government constellation, and they all said: No! The welfare doesn't get any worse. Better welfare could easily be achieved by 0.2 per cent. in growth, although the demographic move was 0.5%. But when you are in opposition, that cannot be done. And that is the duality of social democracy: it is an entirely different party in opposition than that of government; when you come back after having had the power of government, you forget what was said in opposition. Just like when in 2011 you forgot all the things you said before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203838	Thank you. Then we move on to the next question, and that's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen from the Enhedslisten, and as a service announcement, I have to say that it is after him that Mr. Thomas Jensen. It's more so you don't have to be out of breath when you come running over there. Here you go, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203851	Thank you. I believe that everyone who has been sitting behind the screen and watching the last hour will have noticed that our finance minister is extremely good at jumping gymnastics. For he has skipped the questions he has been asked with very great skill in relation to how to find these more than 5 billion. kr. that you want to take from the transfer income. So I just want to ask the Minister for Finance quite clearly: can the Minister for Finance guarantee that there will not be taken from the pensioners? Can the Minister for Finance guarantee that no early retirement will be taken? Can the Minister for Finance guarantee that there will not be taken from the SU in the negotiations that are now under way with the Danish People's Party behind closed doors?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203937	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907203938	We have identified a number of areas which must help to find the means to finance our tax proposals in full. There is a financing requirement of 5.25 billion. kr., and we have pointed out that we must find them by among others. to look at profit principles. I think there are a great many areas where we need to have profit principles in Denmark, including large areas which can provide considerable amounts of money. You have to remember this with the 5.25 billion. kr. is something that must take effect in 2025. So it is possible to make sure that we get one more, I think, fair funding for the welfare benefits that are in Denmark, where you provide before you enjoy and where you contribute to society before you help to receive from it. I think it is quite honest to put that forward, and we will negotiate with the Danish People's Party, as we have promised, on what framework and what opportunities there are for making profits in several areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204035	Well, we've heard that before. In other words, what the Minister of Finance is saying now, he has said several times, perhaps just with a single rewording or two minutes in the last hour. But that's not what I'm asking. I wonder whether the Minister for Finance can give a guarantee to the pensioners, to the early retirement pensionists and to the SU recipients that their transfers will not be cut as part of the financing of the masked top tax concessions that the government is negotiating with the Danish People's Party, and frankly I think that the people and parliament deserve an honest answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204110	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204111	If I answer the same question, it is mainly because I am asked the same thing, and it is reasonable to say that you answer the same question. As far as a guarantee is concerned, it has been tried once before in Danish politics to give clear guarantees.I even think it was written and little came of that. I have clear regard for the fact that I have to make an economy work together, and it is not an economy that involves top tax relief beyond what we have agreed with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who was then Minister for Employment, and Mr Frederiksen. Bjarne Corydon, then Minister of Finance, is top tax relief, which should actually be phased in in the coming years, but which we would like to see enter into force as early as 2018. In addition, there are no top tax concessions in the tax reform that we have presented and hope to be able to implement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204157	Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party, and after him it's sir. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204203	Thank you, President. After all, we have seen a string of proposals from the government here over the last few weeks, and what has been remarkable is, after all, when we have seen a play where the government gave out gifts, that the government has not told who should pay. We were held to the fact that we should know that, and now we are discussing the draft budget at first reading, and we still do not know who is going to pay. We know that the government is going to break loose in the room and spend some of the hard-earned money that the Danes have delivered to it, and we also know that we have heard several times today that there is a bill of 5.25 billion. kr., which the government is still going to find out, and I will again try to get an answer from the Minister for Finance on where that money is to be found. There is only talk of profit principles. I think there are many hard-working workers who have paid their taxes month after month in the knowledge that when their children once reached the age at which they were going to train, they could also get an SU from the state to train for, as I think many students are. And there is my question here briefly and clearly: can the parents and future students be sure that they can get an SU that is not being cut by the government in this Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204319	See, it is the case that there is an SU settlement that runs until 2018 and that can only be changed if all conciliation parties agree to amend the SU agreement. So it has to be a little up to the parties that are included in the SU agreement whether they want to change it here in 2017. Moreover, it is not true that I have only spoken about profit principles. I asked Mr. Thomas Jensen's party colleague, whether the Social Democratic Party would help to restore the modulation of child and youth benefits, as Mr. Dan Jørgensen had promised in the Ekstrabladet on 25 May 2016. Now, sir. Mr Thomas Jensen may then just answer on his own behalf, i.e. whether he will be prepared to introduce a graduated child and family benefit, i.e. whether he agrees with Mr Beazley. Dan Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204410	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204411	I can tell the country's Minister of Finance not to stand around in the debates here in the Danish Parliament. I've been checking up on what, sir. Dan Jørgensen has said, and he hasn't said you want to reinstate anything. Sir. Dan Jørgensen has said that you're willing to look at how to adjust this. That's not the same as saying that you just want to reinstate something. So we must stick to the truth in this Chamber, even when we quote other colleagues. My question then goes on from the SU area. Sir. Kristian Jensen has previously been involved in barring the unemployment benefit system in Denmark, and I would just like to ask: can the unemployment benefit recipients in Denmark be sure that the Minister for Finance, together with the Danish People's Party, does not go in and shave or take some more money from the unemployment benefit area to finance these tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204456	Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204459	Well, in the article from the Ekstra Bladet, which is still away on their website, sir. Dan Jørgensen actually quoted as saying that a modulation of family benefits must be reinstated and, in fact, during that period the Social Democratic Party blames the then Left Government quite strongly for not having done so already. I think it is rather strange that we are being blamed for the abolition of a benefit by the former Socialist-led government, and we are then asked to get it back. We would like to do what we can to ensure that the transfer income system is as precise as possible in order to ensure that we benefit and support employment, and employment in Denmark needs us to provide it with more labour. That is why we are looking at something that needs to be done in relation to the right to return, where we are spending the money to reduce the tax, so that we increase the supply of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204550	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hyllested, Esbjerg. And after him, it's Mrs. Julie Skovsby from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204600	Yes, Jutland, Denmark. In fact, I just think that the discussion here, and especially the last turn, has become such an absurd one. After all, the Minister for Finance has been asked by a number of rapporteurs and members of parliament where the funding comes from for these over 5 billion. kr., because there is no funding assigned to it. The Minister for Finance says we're looking at profit principles a little bit. It is the only concrete thing we have heard, without being particularly specific. But the Minister for Finance does not imagine that 5 billion can be obtained. kr. by means of profit principles. The Minister for Finance does not recognise the need to make a proper cut in transfer incomes if you are to obtain just about 5 billion. kr.? After all, the discussion becomes absurd when the Minister of Finance does not want to answer where the funding comes from, apart from some loose remarks that we are looking at the principles of recovery.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204712	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204714	I do not recognise that a proper cut has to be made, nor do I recognise that I should have pointed only to the principles of recovery. I have pointed to three sources. It is to re-establish the graduated child and youth benefit that we have had in the past and which, unfortunately, was removed by the then Social Democratic-led government; it is to look at the contribution of participants to our Danish courses, because we believe that people who come to Denmark to work and study here should themselves help to pay for their Danish courses, because we really think it is quite reasonable to do so, so that it is not something that Danish taxpayers have to pay a hundred percent. And then it is true that yes, we believe that there may be several areas where we introduce profit principles, that is, the principle of giving before you can enjoy. I am very surprised, in fact, that there is so much opposition to the principle of recovery that so many people are reacting so negatively to it. I really believe that it is a good Danish value that one should provide before one can enjoy. We want to spread this to several areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204820	We are just worried because we are not getting 5 billion. kr. by looking at the profit principles or changing them. We don't even spend 5 billion. kr. of foreigners' welfare benefits at all. So I do not know how and how to obtain 5 billion. kr. Okay, then the Minister of Finance has some other sources of funding. However, we are concerned that this should be paid by the pensioner when we talk about the fact that it should come from transfer income, that is to say that it should be paid by the early retirement pensionist, that it should be paid by the pensioner, that it should be paid by people on unemployment benefits. That is where the large, if I may say so, amounts are when we talk about transfer income. That's what we're worried about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204907	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907204909	It is in fact the case that we believe that a fairly considerable sum can be obtained by introducing profit principles in a number of areas. It is the case that a great many people come to Denmark today and receive something from the public funds, without having contributed enough to them first. Therefore, we think it is reasonable that more contribute before they receive; that more give before they enjoy. In fact, we think it is reasonable that those who have contributed to the welfare society that we have today should also be primarily those who receive something from it. Therefore, the question is whether you should have full rights to transfer income before you have contributed to them. I just do not think we should do that; the government does not think so, and that is why we want to spread profit principles to more areas. We were already working on this back in the then VK government in 2011, when we came up with a big report in this area that tried to map out some of the options. There have subsequently been steps in this direction in individual areas, but much more remains to be done, and we want to discuss this in the context of this series of negotiations which will now be around phase two of job reform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205020	Thank you. Then it is Mrs. Julie Skovsby's great privilege to be the last to have the opportunity to challenge the Minister in this round. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205030	Thank you. The government's 2025 plan of May had an ambition to increase employment by approx. 10,000 people know, among other things. to reschedule the S.U. As you know, this did not succeed. So my question to the Minister for Finance is this: should the target not be revised downwards by 10,000 people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205059	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205100	No, we maintain our objective. And we have actually said that we would like to come up with a proposal for a new SU reform during 2018, because we recognise that there is a conciliation in this area that runs until 2018. And that is why it is our intention to come up with a proposal to encourage a faster pass through education and to ensure that you have a more reasonable balance in relation to what you can earn yourself and what you can get in grants and what you can borrow from the public. And that is why we still have an ambition to present a proposal for an SU reform later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205137	Then my colleague, sir... Morten Bødskov may be right in relation to the questions he has put to the Minister of Finance about whether there are plans to cut the SU for candidates and reduce the daily allowance etc. I would like to conclude by saying now that the Minister for Finance has spoken to Annette Hansen that she sounds like a wise woman and she is asking some good questions. So I think the Minister for Finance should save her phone number, call her every once in a while and then maybe not talk so much yourself, but listen to her question. Perhaps she will ask the question whether the government can really achieve its economic objectives now with the latest proposals that have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205234	We can move in the right direction with the proposals we have made. We are moving forward towards achieving the objectives, but it is the case that the objectives we have set ourselves are towards 2025. And that's why it hasn't been my expectation that it hasn't been Mrs. Julie Skovsby's expectation that concrete proposals will be made that will fully achieve all the objectives of this Assembly. There will gradually be new initiatives that are moving in the right direction. We have pointed out five different ways of achieving a greater supply of work. This is among other things. the question of getting into the labour market early, that fewer people have to be on transfer income, that they have to stay a little longer in the labour market, that those who are in the process have to spend a few more hours, and also that we have a better chance of having international recruitment. The last thing I know is that there are a lot of companies that are happy about it, and I am therefore also sorry that the Social Democrats have recently helped to make it harder to make international recruitment in relation to the workforce that companies need. Finally, I would just like to say: yes, I will save Annette's phone number, and if she has the time and the desire and opportunity to have a conversation with me, I would also like to listen to her and to other voices from everyday life. It's them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205346	Thank you to the Minister and thank you to Mrs Skovsby. In the interests of safety, I would like to know whether anyone has been overlooked, but I would like to speak on this part of the debate. There isn't. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Financial Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205438	The negotiations have been opened, and the first one to speak is Mr Seligman. Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party. He does not want to speak. Do any of the rapporteurs wish to speak? Then we can make it quick. Are there anyone other than the rapporteurs who would like to speak? There isn't. Does the Minister of Finance wish to speak? He doesn't. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Financial Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205559	The following electoral groups have been notified: a group of 90 members: Danish People's Party, Left, Liberal Alliance and Conservative People's Party; another group of 88 members: Social Democracy, Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left, Socialist People's Party, Inuit Ataqatigiit (IA), Tjóðveldi (T) and Javnadarflokkurin (JF). The groups have appointed the following members: Søren Günther-Sørensen (DF), Svend Erik Nielsen (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Jan Rix Rasmussen (S), Jan Kristoffersen (ALT) and Svend Thorhauge (RV). Notice of who has been elected will appear at www.folktingstidende.dk. The persons concerned are then elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170907205704	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 3 October 2017, at 3 pm. 12.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
