ParlaMint-DK_20171215100012	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Ida Au (RV), Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Roge Courage Matthisen (ALT) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 53 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on updating the rules for environmental zones in Denmark). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100054	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100142	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100154	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 adopted by the Minister for Health. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100202	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100212	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100301	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100314	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100401	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100433	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100447	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100520	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100534	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100602	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100618	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been unanimously adopted and will now be sent to the Parliamentary Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100659	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100742	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100756	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 82 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. The vote will now be taken on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European The vote is over. In favour 23 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100917	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is over. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215100951	No amendments have been tabled. Is there anyone who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215101018	Sir. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215101033	Thank you, President. It is a good deal that has been made here, but in the context of L 88 having fallen into place, we have at the same time been sitting and working on a major problem which has been for part-time firemen, tools and homeguards. In this connection, the Danish People's Party is together with Mr. Bjarne Laustsen from the Social Democratic Party made a lot of good input and views on what to bring, and we have had a great cooperation with the Minister for Employment to solve a problem that has existed in, I don't know how long. Bjarne Laustsen already mentioned in 1993 that this was a problem. Now the will to solve it is there, and perhaps now there were the right ones to sit down and get this problem solved. Therefore, an agreement has been reached between the government, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left to relax the rules for part-time firemen and volunteers. Today it is the case that for part-time firemen it is included in the consumption of supplementary daily allowances if they are on daily allowances. We remove that rule, so if they are sent out while they are on daily allowances, they do not consume the additional daily allowance. So that's another thing. Today it is the case that, if the tools and the home guard receive an on-call fee or a security fee, it is set off against the daily allowance. We also remove this rule so that it will no longer be set off against the benefits and early retirement when they are in the service of community service. This is a very, very good proposal that we have had here. We must remember that all these people, part-time firefighters, homeguards, tools and others who participate, are doing a very socially useful job, and in this respect we must remember that they should not be punished because they participate as volunteers and make an effort for the benefit of everyone else. In this context, we should also bear in mind that firemen who make themselves available can risk their lives or risk harm when they are out to put out fires and make an unselfish effort for the benefit of everyone else. Why, then, should they be punished further by consuming the additional daily allowance? It is the case that if they get paid while they are out, it is of course offset in the benefits. You can't get double income, it gives itself, but everything else shouldn't be punished for it. That's why we made this deal. I know that it is an agreement that is in demand both by part-time firemen, homeguards and tools around, and they have been looking forward to this day with pleasure. So it is actually a pretty big day for preparedness, firefighters and homeguards when we can say today that we have reached an agreement. In this respect, I know that there are more who want to be on the platform. My good colleague, Leif Lahn Jensen, is waiting to come up, but I would also ask that, when the rapporteurs are finished, the Minister finally come up and explain the amendment that we will be making on the basis of that agreement. It is an amendment that we must have in place and that is why I would also ask that between the second and third readings we get the proposal back in committee so that we can submit a supplementary report on Tuesday. The proposal must be dealt with thirdly on Wednesday, and I would ask the President to ensure that we get it back in committee so that we can get this proposal adopted. But like I said, I think it's a really good day for everyone. I have worked hard to get this through and why it has not succeeded over the last 20 years, I have to leave it unsaid. But now the will is there to solve it, and it must of course be solved for the benefit of all those who carry out a socially useful task. So we in the Danish People's Party strongly recommend that. I would also like to congratulate those who have helped to make this proposal, the Minister for Employment and Leif Lahn Jensen, but I would also like to commend the input that Bjarne Laustsen has provided and what I have contributed to it. It is a good agreement that we hope will receive the support of the entire Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215101523	Thank you to the rapporteur. Was it too much self-esteem? ) No, that was nice to hear. We're gonna need that a little bit. Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215101534	Thank you. And thank you for the praise of my good colleague Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Perhaps not many people here know the problem, but now I am looking down at my own group, the Socialist Group, because if you have been sitting in the Parliament and at least in the Socialist Group for many years, you know that when the group meeting is mentioned the words volunteers and part-time firemen, everyone is looking at Bjarne Laustsen, and Bjarne Laustsen gets up and gets in trouble, and that is because Bjarne Laustsen has been fighting for this for many years. And I am not saying to the group that they will now be at peace for Bjarne Laustsen and his other good ideas, for hopefully he has even more of them, but I say that we are now going to solve this. Bjarne Laustsen has, of course, been absolutely right, and I would like to say that for many of us, these benefits are an obstacle to taking part in such important work as saving lives and property and doing the most important work for us people, which is something that we, as elected representatives in this House, should also appreciate. We simply must not have a situation where these people opt out of this work because of rigid rules which prevent them from doing so, and that is what we want to avoid. That is why the amendment that is coming now is extremely important and very, very good. Honestly, I don't understand why it's taken so long... 10, 15, 20 years... and I'm not saying that to blame anyone, because I think anyone who's been in here a long time can blame themselves for it. I am only saying this because I am delighted that we have actually solved it now. You can't use direct charges in here, but I'll try to indict you in the third person, because I'd like to say a huge thank you to Mr. Simpson. Bent Bøgsted, for mr. Bent Bøgsted and I have sat down and said, "Now this has to be solved." And without conjuring up wrong pictures, I'd say that we almost went hand in hand with the minister we didn't quite, but we were very much in agreement that it was very, very important for us to get this solved, and that we should do that now, and it should S and DF do it together. I have also told the Minister, before I came up here, that he should just sit quite calmly when I start to praise him, because there is no ulterior motive in that. In fact, I also believe that the Minister has taken very good note of us and listened and, from the outset, wanted improvements in this area. So this is a great case, and I'm going to say to all of you: I'm going to the weekend in an incredibly good mood.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215101811	So encouraged must it be Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215101817	Thank you. On 29 November the Employment Committee visited Mona; not one of the firemen, whom I would like to congratulate on the fact that such an amendment is under way, and I think we can warmly support this on the part of Enhedslisten, but of a 56-year-old North Jutlander who had been a factory worker for most of his working life. She was dating her union, 3F, because Mona was angry with the quiet, slightly insane North Jutland way. Throughout her working life she had hardly ever been unemployed until the factory closed in 2014 and moved to Hungary. Then she did everything right, that is, what the Folketing and the government have asked her to do: take all the small jobs and temporary jobs that you can get away with at all. She did. But in the end she had been out of a normal job, you could say full-time job for so long that her daily allowance rate had to be re-calculated. Then what happened? It was to be re-calculated according to the new rules which were made for employees in the most recent benefit settlements. And then what happened? It happened that Mona's daily allowance rate of just over 18,000 DKK. a month was reduced by DKK 5,700, i.e. approx. 13,000 kroner. Mona was angry about that. She could not understand it, for she had heard that it should always pay to take a job when you were available. She would have. Yet she felt that she was being punished. Then you might ask what it has to do with the handling of Bill No. L 88 to do which, of course, is not directly about firefighters. It will, and I think it is very good. It is a question of self-employed people also having better rules on the possibility of earning a daily allowance. There are a lot of good suggestions for this in this bill. But Mona's visit has to do with this bill that you will also transfer the rule that hit Mona to the self-employed and freelancers, with the result that many of them can get into the same situation as Mona, namely that, when they have to recalculate their daily allowance rate, they go down many, many thousands a month. You can also go further down than Mona. Why is that now? It's very technical. This has something to do with the periods for calculating the benefit rate. But it also has something to do with the fact that in this proposal and with what happened to employees in general, the safety net that was before with an allowance rate of 82% is removed.; Further down it could not come, but it can now. There are also other deteriorations in the legislative proposal that we are now considering at second reading. It is, of course, a question of self-employed people now seeing it as an unnecessary tightening that they cannot, as in the past, temporarily close their businesses and obtain unemployment benefits, but are forced to cease their business altogether. There are also significant deteriorations for members who are selfemployed at the same time as receiving unemployment benefit. Today you can receive unemployment benefit for 78 weeks, while at the same time you are in a selfemployed second job. It is now reduced to 30 weeks, as has the case with supplementary benefits for employees. That means, for example: the completely crazy thing, that when the rules come into force on 1 October 2018, you as the recipient of supplementary daily allowance will eventually use up your right to supplementary daily allowance, but with the result that if you do everything you are asked to do, that is to take all sorts of small jobs, for example. One hour's work for one month, you lose benefit for the whole month. There are four serious knots in this draft law, and the Enhedslisten has tabled amendments on this, and these are the ones we have to deal with today. I am glad that it is now going back to committee. This could give the majority who have signed up to reject our amendments an opportunity to think again, as to whether it is wise now. When we can already see the negative consequences of the elements I have described here, is it wise to hold on to them? There I do not think it is an argument that employees are already affected by it. It would be better to think the other way round and say: now we stop right here; we support the Enhedslisten's amendments, and then we start to correct the same errors in the benefit settlement that has already been implemented by law. I hope that, just as you will now be open to the firemen, as we will be, you will also be here and think about it. For it is therefore glaringly impossible to explain it to the unemployed, who have been weeping their ears every day because it must pay to take a job when they are unemployed. They are encouraged to take all sorts of small jobs, and people do, because they must have increased their income. However, when they do so, some rules have been drawn up which I have mentioned here and which we would like to see changed, which means that those people are being punished. I guess that can't be right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215102418	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. And then it's sir. Bjarne Laustsen as a privateist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215102438	Thank you. As you heard, I was strongly urged to take the floor as a privateist in this matter, and this is not something I usually do, because I am a man of few words, and if it weren't because I had grown so old and had gotten so many wrinkles, I couldn't have been in my body today. This is a very good day, as the rapporteurs have also mentioned, because it is a matter for which Parliament has spent a great deal of time. I spoke to the Minister yesterday and we agreed that more time had been spent on this matter and more resources spent than it costs to make this bill, and that is why it is foolish that we have not done it before. There are few Members here who remember what happened, and I have a press release here issued by the Conservative People's Party in 1997. It was a joint press release from six parties, and some of them no longer exist at all. From the left it was Helge Sander, from the Conservative People's Party it was Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, who sits down here and is a minister today, from CD it was Addi Andersen, from SF it was Aag Frandsen, from Enhedslisten it was Jette Gottlieb, from the Progress Party it was Behnke Behnke, and from the Danish People's Party it was Poul Nødgaard. They agreed that this was too bad, because when the unemployed became unemployed in their main occupation as part-time firemen, they were pulled into their benefits, which meant that they only got a few crowns out of being available and helping in society, and that of course could not work out. In 1998 the Left wrote to the part-time firemen that this was a matter for them to resolve and the will was there, but it was just not resolved. When the Social Democratic Party gained power, the Radicals did not want to change a comma in unemployment benefits, and that is why time went by, one year after another, and in the meantime we had actually got the rules on supplementary allowances, and that meant that we had some stories like these, namely that firemen had to stop being firemen, just because the Danish Parliament had introduced some rules that prevented them from continuing to be part-time firemen. That's why it's a really, really good case and why is it? That is because our preparedness is one of the world's cheapest tools at all. We have few full-time employees, we have many part-time workers, we have many volunteers, and every time something happens, it can be a flood, fire, natural disasters or something else, they are always on the verge of helping society. It is a cheap resource, and that is why we must reward these people here and not punish them, which is why I am glad that the parties have come together on this and that the Minister is willing, and of course I also hope that at third reading all parties will be involved in this, because they have always proposed it in one way or another. The only ones who, paradoxically, have never proposed this are the Radicals, but I have had problems with them in the second context by proposing something that was quite reasonable. But if you vote in favour here and they're in the deal then it's gonna be a really good day. This is, after all, an exception to the rules that you have in other areas, and that is why it is really fine that you have defined who it is. And these are the volunteer firemen, they're beach guards, they're rescuers, they're dyke guards, and the new thing is that the Home Guard has come along. Then why have they come with us? They are because they also help society in quite ordinary times. Let me just remind you that the Home Guard is helping the police more than 150,000 hours a year, so it is quite enormous resources that you can draw on when you have help needs. So today's a really good day. The only thing I would object to is that it might be a little quicker to implement it, because I happen to know that Danske A-Kasser is sitting up here in the first row, and this should only enter into force with the legislation we are talking about today, by the way, on 1 October 2018. So it could go a little faster. All these part-time firefighters and the volunteers are in all the boxes in the country, so it is also important that the message that we now have a completely cash set of rules reaches them, so that these rules do not apply to them, because there has been doubt about that before, and that is why I think there is a good reason to skip the flag and thank you for the good cooperation we have had on this. Then I will hide the briefcase here that I used to convince the rapporteurs that this was quite a sensible matter. This has happened many times before, but now it is a reality and I will be very happy this week when we adopt this proposal, because it is the best Christmas present everyday heroes can get because it is a cadeau and we lack so many volunteers out there, and on that basis I also hope there are more volunteers who will make themselves available to help in the situation where they may be needed. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215102940	Thank you, sir. Bjarne Laustsen. Minister of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215102951	I am also pleased with the very broad political support that is now available to equate participation in tools with bourgeois ombuds in the benefit system. And I would also like to sign today for a very good cooperation with the rapporteurs who have been involved in the matter. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen of the Social Democratic Party, sir. Bjarne Laustsen, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and, of course, the rapporteurs of the government parties. For me, this is precisely a symbol that we are fortunately willing to find good solutions to things that have been inappropriate for many years and have helped to create some problems. I also believe that we owe it to the many part-time firemen and volunteers in the emergency services that we, as a society, recognise the enormous efforts they are making. That's what they deserve about somebody. I fully agree that they are the heroes of everyday life. As a result, the allowances and remuneration they receive to be available and to make voluntary contributions shall no longer be deducted from the daily allowance or early retirement allowance. Part-time firefighters who become unemployed from their main occupation shall no longer be subject to the 30-week time limit for the calculation of supplementary daily allowance, even if employed hours are deducted from their daily allowance. In order to implement this agreement, the duration limitation on supplementary daily allowances must be abolished for part-time firemen. That is why I would also like to propose amendments to L 88, which follow up on the unemployment benefit reform, and to amend the supplementary allowance provision so that the abolition of the duration limitation for part-time firemen can be taken together with the other reasons for reduction of working hours which are not covered by a limitation of the duration of supplementary daily allowance. In this way, all regulatory changes on supplementary daily allowances will be brought together in this proposal and will enter into force at the same time, namely on 1 October 2018. And even if you would like things to go a little faster, I think that today we should welcome the fact that it is decades of discussions that are now being brought to an end. Because that is quite right, as Mr. Bjarne Laustsen said that this has been discussed for many, many years in fact for 20 years here in Parliament. The other elements of the agreement on deductions from cash benefits or early retirement for part-time firemen and voluntary appliances, e.g.: The Home Guard and volunteer firefighters do not require a change of law and will be implemented in the form of announcement amendments so that they can also enter into force. So I would also like to thank you very much for the very constructive cooperation which has also taken place in this area in the area of the Ministry of Employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103229	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103234	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I can only congratulate all of us on this amendment, which is obviously on the way and of course also congratulate the firefighters, that is clear. But I would like to ask the Minister: what does the Minister say to Mona from Frederikshavn, who has had to experience that her daily allowance rate was reduced from just over DKK 18,000? ed 13,000 kroner. Because of the new rules that are now being introduced for self-employed people? And what does the Minister say to the self-employed who use up their entitlement to supplementary daily allowance and who, after 1 October 2018, will find that if they take one hour's work a month, they will lose the whole of that month's daily allowance? If they have a 3-day job that extends beyond 2 calendar months, they lose 2 months' daily allowance. So what's the minister's answer to these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103343	My answer to Mr. Finn Sørensen is, after all, the same as it was at first reading, namely that the proposal we are now adopting next week helps to strengthen the self-employed. Because we are going to make some rules now in the area of unemployment benefits, which add more funds. You don't get the impression of that when Mr. Finn Sørensen asks the questions. There you get the impression that we are weakening the conditions. That is why we are in the happy situation, but unfortunately the Enhedslisten is not interested in supporting the proposal, as the report understands that we are adding 20 million to the area. kr. So we're actually gonna do this better than it is today. And, of course, I'm sorry that Enhedslisten can't see, and so they're still trying to make this a case where you don't want to support the improvement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103431	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103433	Enhedslisten is definitely interested in supporting this bill. We have also made this very clear at first reading. However, before we can take a position on this, and before we can do so, we must, of course, remove the very clear deteriorations in the legislative proposal. The Minister will have to confirm this, that is to say, there are some clear deteriorations that have occurred when there is no longer a safety net in the form of a minimum daily allowance rate that you can be put on when you have to recalculate your daily allowance. or more down in cash benefits, despite having done everything they are asked to do, namely to take part-time jobs and short-term employment, and when people (President Yes please!(Applause from the centre and from the right) ) to lose a full month's work. These are deteriorations, which the Minister must admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103528	You have to keep to your speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103530	What we have discussed at first reading, and which we are discussing now, is that when we look at the legislative proposal, is it an improvement in the conditions currently in force, or is it a deterioration? There you have to say to the Enhedslisten and say to Mr. Finn Sørensen: This is a clear improvement in today's conditions. It also helps to ensure that in the labour market we look into in the future, where more people may have atypical jobs, we are able to ensure that this can be done. So I have to say to Mr. Knox. Finn Sørensen and to Enhedslisten, that this is a strengthening of the area and not what Enhedslisten would like to say, namely that it is a clear deterioration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103615	The Minister must also keep to his speaking time. Here you go. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103621	You were in a very good mood with this little séance of cheering over firemen and others who do a volunteer job, and you can't disagree with that, but when you talk about everyday heroes, I want to ask the Minister if the people who take every little job, whether it's an hour or a day here and there, aren't also the heroes of everyday life, and shouldn't we make sure they're not punished for doing that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103650	I think it is a little crucial to keep the perspectives of this proposal, because what is the case with the proposal is that we are now adding more funds to this area, so that it will cover more people than otherwise has been the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103708	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103710	Mona in North Jutland gets less money out of it, and probably many others do. Why is the Minister talking about the real weaknesses of this bill? Could we not discuss it a little more nuanced and then recognise that there are weaknesses in this and that there are people who make less money out of it? I do not think it is fair just to say that we are now cheering over everything that is good, and then we must forget everyday heroes who actually take hours here and there and spend hours getting to and from work. They are also the heroes of everyday life, and they should not be forgotten because there are now some improvements for others.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103745	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103747	I fully agree that you should not forget anyone in this society... it is quite evident. But we must also remember to welcome the improvements that are made, and that is sometimes what Mr. Christian Juhl's biggest problem, for Mr. Christian Juhl has black belt in not being able to see improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103804	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215103820	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 2 is rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 3 is rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 4 are rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5 and 7-9, elected by the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 10 are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 11 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 11 has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 13 and 14, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 15, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 12, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and SF) or on Amendment No 12. 16 and 17 members of the Committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 18 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 18 are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 19 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). Has everyone voted? Yeah. The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 19 are rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104254	That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 20 and 21, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 22 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. Twenty-two are rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 24, 26 and 27, tabled and joined by the same minorities as rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 28 and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 23. adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL and SF) or on Amendment No 23. Twenty-five and They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 32 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). in favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 90 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. 32 are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 33-35, member of the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 36 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 13 (EL and SF), against 89 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. Amendment No. Thirty-six are rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 37-39, 41 and 42, tabled and joined by the same minorities who have been rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 40 and 43-49, elected by the committee? They are adopted. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104551	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104605	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 of a minority (DF), joined by a majority (V, LA, ALT, RV and KF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104636	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104705	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104732	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104746	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104807	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104830	Would you like to vote on Amendments Nos 1 to 13, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104854	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104924	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-24, elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. Then it has been proposed that the draft law be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215104948	Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. The debate is about the amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105005	The Social Democratic Party, together with the SF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten, has tabled an amendment to this bill on the Central Business Register. In fact, we are opposed to the automatic adoption of the bill masking the transparency of who owns what in Danish business. The fact is that all persons with address protection in the CPR register will receive automatic protection in the Central Business Register. This makes it easier for the so-called bandits in Habits to hide in the CVR register, and all the great talk about the fight against financial crime, paradise papers and so on. It must be said that they lose their authority for the parties that vote through L 9 without this amendment. For without the amendment, it goes from the fact that in Denmark we have less than 200 people with address protection in the CPR register to the fact that 18 000 business people automatically get address protection. This contrasts sharply with the fact that in recent years fewer than 50 people per year have applied for address protection and have been refused. And with our amendments, we will actually allow the Minister of Industry to lay down detailed rules which will ensure that those who have good and legitimate reasons for having address protection can also have it. This will ensure a balance in the bill that protects those who may have been exposed to unpleasantness by having their address displayed in the CPR register, while ensuring that the people who have unclean trot • bandits in habitter are not given the opportunity to hide in the CVR register. The parties which do not support the amendment will then no longer be able to speak with credibility in their voices when the fight against economic crime, paradise papers and the identification of who owns what in Danish business. In addition, the law-abiding professionals who in the future would like to check for information on a possible business relationship or on someone who is looking for a job in their company will not have the same easy access to check whether it is people they want to hire or do business with. The Social Democrats support this balanced amendment, and we do so together with the other proposers. We cannot support the bill as a whole if this amendment is not adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105220	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105228	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL)? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF). The vote is over. For 52 votes against 51 abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. I think there are some who need to vote. Actually, I'm pretty sure so we're gonna keep going. And I would say that you cannot vote twice, but only once. That's the way it is in here. Is everyone now sure that they have voted? The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV, and SF), against 54 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I shall now look at Amendment No 17. 5-8, tabled by the same minority as rejected. They are rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 9, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 4 or on Amendment No 4, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL), or by a majority of its members. 10, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA and KF)? It's agreed. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 11 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 58 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 28 (S). The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105529	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105549	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (EL). The vote is over. In favour of 9 (EL), against 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105638	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I'm gonna need a little more quiet while you go out. We are dealing with legislative proposals, and this is a serious matter! I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105752	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 19 December 2017. It is first Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten, as rapporteur for the questioners on a explanatory note. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215105820	Thank you, President. Psychiatry should be at the top of the health policy agenda. There are many patient groups in this country that deserve attention, but no one is lagging behind as much as the citizens who suffer from mental illness. Today, on average, citizens with a mental illness live 15-20 years shorter than those who are equally healthy. That is a totally unacceptable inequality. And mental disorders today account for 25 per cent. of the total burden of illness in Denmark, and thus mental illness is clearly the major part of the burden of disease. Psychiatric illness is clearly the major cause of early retirement, and anxiety and depression alone are the cause of at least 1.6 million sick days per year. Psychic disease hits wide. It is one in three of us Danes who experience a mental illness during their lives. And 1 in 5 of those who are admitted to a mental illness in a psychiatric ward are subjected to coercion. I often hear from relatives and from citizens suffering from mental illness that they find it difficult to get help, that it is difficult to be hospitalized when they need it, because there is a lack of places in the psychiatry, or that they are being discharged before they are completed, because there are other patients who are worse off than they are. In the worst cases, it leads to a lack of help to do harm to oneself or to others. Yet the psychiatry is lagging behind. Psychiatry is not mentioned in the Finance Act that has just been concluded. And when we look back over the last few years, we can see that the amount per. patient in psychiatry has decreased dramatically by around 18% if we look at the figures from 2008 to 2015. I think that is why all the organisations in this area, whether they represent patients, relatives, staff or others who are active in relation to psychiatry, are calling for a new action plan to follow the one that is about to run out, and they are calling for us to give significant priority to psychiatry, and they are also calling for stability and calm around psychiatry and not so many pools and projects. So there are very many good reasons why we should discuss what to do in terms of preventing mental illness and ensuring better and proper treatment. And that is why we have called for a question debate on that particular subject. The question to the Minister is this: will the Minister initiate a long-term plan on how mental health and psychiatry can be significantly prioritised and how to ensure a lasting and stable financial framework for psychiatry, including funding through the Finance Act rather than through the Rate Pool? And I look forward to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215110133	Thank you. And then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215110139	Thank you for asking about a long-term plan for how mental health and psychiatry can be prioritised in Denmark. This is an important issue. I can't wait to discuss it. And it is also an issue that has been high on my agenda from day one when I sat in the chair as Minister for Health. For there is a need to prioritise psychiatry in Denmark. There are areas in psychiatry where it is not good enough. I have said that all the way through as Minister for Health, and I would like to repeat that today. And yes, there is a need for a long-term development plan for psychiatry, and we are working on that and we really need to get on with it. People with mental disorders must be offered a coherent effort of high and uniform quality, as well as people with somatic disorders, and I think we can all agree on that. And we also debated this earlier this year with a question debate F 19 on the admission of mentally ill people, where a broad majority also adopted a joint proposal for adoption, which states: "The Parliament wants to support good courses of treatment for people with mental disorders. The Danish Parliament wishes to improve the efforts made by the Psychiatry as part of the management work to examine the existence of inappropriate structures, such as: • to ensure better hospitalization for people with mental disorders based on recommendations from the Committee on close and coherent health care. ▪ There has also been broad political support for strengthening the psychiatry area for a number of years. In 2016, the former Left Government put forward a proposal to adopt a real right to rapid investigation and extended free hospital choice also in the field of psychiatry. And with its adoption, the Folketing stated that people with mental disorders must have the same rights in terms of investigation and treatment as all other patients in the health care system. This has meant that the regions, and fortunately for what they are today, are providing and treating more and with shorter waiting lists, because we also had a problem of waiting times in the psychiatry earlier. But we should not paint any wonderful painting of psychiatry, because there is a great deal that can and must be done better in psychiatry before we achieve this coherent action of high and uniform quality. For example, the number of acute psychiatric admissions is simply too high. And the proportion has been increasing over the years. In 2016, 24% was spent. in psychiatric hospitalizations, while in 2010 it was 21 per cent. In some cases, an acute re-hospital can be an expression of the patient's insight into his own situation, but the high figure points very much to the fact that regions and municipalities have a role to play in improving cooperation on the progress of the citizen, so that you also have a good reception network when you are printed from psychiatry, as well as having a real and clear focus on whether the patient has actually finished before printing. Unfortunately, we also see an increase in the use of coercion in some parts of the country. Some regions are far from being in line with what we have agreed in the partnership agreements. If, for example, we take the region of Midtjylland, it will unfortunately go back. If we look at the Capital Region and in part also the Region of Southern Denmark, we move forward. It's great, and it's also important to have an eye on it. But these regional differences also stress to me that if there is not enough focus from the management in psychiatry and from the Regional Council, it is possible to achieve positive results in some places, while elsewhere, unfortunately, you do not see the same positive development. If we look at psychiatry overall, we find that there is increasing pressure. There are others who need help, and that is why we must also ensure that the right help is available in time. And here there is no doubt that there is great potential in the early and in the near bets. This applies not least to children and young people who have to deal with mental challenges and misfortune. More than ever, therefore, there is a need for coherent action, in which regions and municipalities together take up their efforts and think in their entirety, think in people, and not in systemic boxes. Back in January, I started a pit or a control review of psychiatry. A working group has been set up in which both the state, the Danish Regions and the KL will jointly dig the psychiatry area. The working group has set out to work together on ambitious recommendations in order to ensure better governance in psychiatry, both in terms of economics, quality and coherence. And the government will draw up an overall plan for the development of psychiatry in the light of the work on which the first recommendations will come in January. Because that is what is needed. There is a need for us to think long-term and for us to think comprehensively in relation to the efforts of people with mental disorders. If we are then to return to the question of how psychiatry has been financed, because that is also one of the issues that we are going to debate today.I also think it is important to mention that, if we look at the total consumption in regional psychiatry from the regions' so-called adapted operating budgets, from 2010 to 2016, consumption has been increasing. 1.3 billion kr. more is used, which corresponds to an increase of 17 per cent. Where, in 2010, the operating budgets of the regions stood at 7.6 billion. kr., then in 2016 they were 8.9 billion. kr. It is an increase in the cost of psychiatry by 17 per cent, but it is clear that under it there is also a need to look at the increase in the number of patients we have seen in psychiatry. With this year's economic agreement, the government, together with the regions, has agreed to an increase in the framework of 500 million. kr. - annual to a general strengthening of the health care system. These are free means, in which the agreement also emphasizes that those funds should be used to strengthen psychiatry. I think that is also important to mention today when it is said that there is no money on the budget law and money in such a broad health agreement in relation to the regions of psychiatry. This is specifically part of the agreement that was made and, in this way, I emphasised it in particular in the press release and the statements I made afterwards, because there is a need for us both in here and regionally to focus on the need for more resources and for a priority to be given to psychiatry. Although we can give a central priority to some of the regions' spending by means of the Finance Act and also through the Rate Pool, it is important to remember that this is largely the responsibility of the regions and that they also have the freedom to prioritise psychiatry within the overall framework of health care. When we look centrally in addition to that, we prioritise psychiatry through the rate pool... which I understand Enhedslisten is against... I also think it is important to stress that this is not primarily temporary funds and pools, as Enhedslisten slightly indicates in the query. From 2010 to 2016, expenditure has increased from 7.6 billion. kr. to 8.9 billion. kr., there is a contribution from the rate pool agreements of 1.05 billion. kr. kr. kr., there are permanent means. So, even if things are financed through the rate pool, it is not necessarily the case that they are temporary pool funds. The vast majority of the money allocated through the rate pool is durable funds, and it is also important to create stability and a good framework for psychiatry. So all in all, only a small proportion of psychiatry funding does not consist of permanent and stable funds, as the authors refer to. In fact, I also believe that we in the government, and very often with the Folketing, have jointly assumed responsibility for prioritising funds for psychiatry, both under the previous government and under this government. In addition, with this year's financial agreement, we have set aside over 200 million with the Danish People's Party. kr. - annual health policy initiatives such as: follow up the recommendations of the Committee on close and coherent health care and thereby also strengthen efforts for people with mental disorders. Because we know that a lack of coherence is also a major problem when we talk about psychiatry. Together with the stake pool parties, we also allocated 2,2 billion with the stake pool agreement under the previous government in the field of health from 2015 to 2018. DKK 300 million of which kr. were permanent means, including: for capacity for new buildings and modern facilities, competences and also a modern framework for psychiatry. It was an agreement in which my party was involved at the time, and just as the parties that are now in opposition, through the pool of rates, have helped to lift some initiatives in this area, so I think it has all been an expression of the fact that we in the Folketing broadly wanted to give higher priority to psychiatry than has been the case in the past. With the stake pool agreement from 2016 to 2019, we made 40 million permanent. kr. to several bedrooms in psychiatry, which were originally prioritised in a previous wager pool agreement. We have also jointly followed up to ensure that the 2.2 billion. kr., which the regions got extra, has actually also gone to lift the psychiatry, because with the previous follow-up model it has been difficult to recover exactly how the funds have been used. At the same time, we have set aside funds to strengthen cross-sectoral efforts so that people with mental disorders experience more coherent efforts, but in this area we are certainly not in the end. Last year we also jointly set aside money for programme programmes for people with mental disorders, and the Danish Health Authority is today presenting the programme programmes for children and young people with mental disorders that were included in the 2017- 2020 rate pool agreement. Now there is a great deal of work to be done to get the programme running locally. Last month I had the pleasure of visiting the House of Psychiatry in Silkeborg, where this has been taken very seriously, where under the same roof you have collected regional offers, municipal offers and social offers for people with mental disorders, and I also think it is an important way to look at how to break down some of the silos that are sometimes in this area. That is why I am also glad that the Ministry of Health, under the responsibility of the free municipalities, is looking at how we can remove the specific legal and regulatory barriers that may exist in order to have these integrated cooperation models across regions and municipalities. For me, it is an important part of ensuring a better coherence that we are also looking from in here at whether there can be legislation that complicates work in everyday life. It is also important to emphasise that, with the agreement we made with the regions this summer, we also agreed to identify any barriers to cross-sectoral access to data. Because it is important that we know when a citizen will be released, so that, in fact, we have already ensured that there is the right offer, and there is no doubt that I, as the Minister for Health and we on the Government, will do our best to support the fact that it will be possible to spread and test these integrated cooperation models to an even greater extent. With last year's wage-pool agreement, we also made an action plan to prevent violence on housing offers, which must also be seen very much in relation to psychiatry. Over four years we have set aside over 400 million. kr. to create 150 special places in psychiatry for a particularly vulnerable group of psychiatric patients. The fact that we increase capacity by 150 seats will also help to ensure both a more stable offer for some of the psychiatric users we know have a lot of rehousing, but also to ensure better conditions for the individual as well as for the employees working in social psychiatry as well as in treatment psychiatrist. With this year's rate pool, we have set aside an additional 18.3 million. kr. to strengthen the quality of the special places and the regions are in the process of creating the special places. I think it's going too slow. After all, the agreement was based on the fact that they were to be ready here at the beginning of 2018, and I have said this to the regions. I also have a meeting with them here in January. For me, the establishment is crucial both for the citizens and also for the staff, and when we have allocated so much money to 150 special places, it is also important that the funds come out to work and provide proper offers to the citizens with mental disorders as well as a good framework for the employees. If we look at the number of children and young people who are in contact with regional psychiatry, we can see that it is a figure that increased by 25%. over the last 5 years. I am very concerned about this as Minister of Health, and we need to act on it, and we have done so with the rate-pool agreement we have just made. Because it is not satisfactory when children and young people experience that there is no offer to them at the right time and that their mental challenges are growing so great that it goes from being something that can be treated locally to being in need of psychiatric hospitalization instead. That is why I am very much looking forward to having the almost 215 million achieved together. kr., we have now set aside for an advanced regional function that can help create a greater connection for children and young people in psychiatry and ensure that treatment takes place much more early and that it also takes place in a close environment. It will also help to ensure a better capacity in this area, and hopefully it will help to ensure that we can break the curve in relation to too many children and young people who are getting acquainted with psychiatry today. I have allowed myself to mention just some of the priorities and efforts that the government has helped to secure, both under the previous government and also under the current government. I think they reflect the fact that we have jointly prioritised the psychiatry area and that we are well on the way, but there is also some way still to ensure that the efforts of people with mental illness will also be as strong as we would like. There is a need to strengthen efforts, and this was also the reason why, back in January, I set up a working group and a culture of psychiatry, and, as I said, the government will, in the light of the work, draw up an overall development plan for psychiatry. That is what is needed to ensure greater stability and to ensure a proper framework for the citizens we have, who need psychiatric services and treatment in our psychiatry, both in the psychiatry, but also in the broad psychiatry. I would just like to conclude by saying that I have a great deal of respect for the work done every day by deeply committed staff, and I hope that from here we can also help to ensure a better framework for the work of those who suffer from mental illness. It is a priority for me as a minister, it is a priority for the government, and I hope that we in the Folketing can join together in raising the area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215111706	Thank you, Minister. And then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215111715	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for your reply. I think I certainly heard a little news for me when the Minister said that the government will work for a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry. I think that is very positive. I know that a study has been started which should have been presented this autumn and which we are still waiting for, but the fact that we are talking about a comprehensive plan has been something that the organisations in this area have been calling for for a long time. At any rate, I have seen many speeches and heard many speeches about it, so I think we can say that it is right, very good, that the government has the ambition to make a comprehensive plan. There is today a psychiatry plan which expires next year. It was launched by the former SR government. There's a lot of need for a new one. There are still many of the problems addressed in the first psychiatry plan, which is far from being solved. It is about tackling prevention; it is about breaking the curve in relation to coercion; it has not yet succeeded. It is also about creating a new culture where you have more focus than medicine and other things than coercion. So I think that's really good. The question I have left, which I hope we can address in the debate, is: is it going to be a long-term plan? Is there any money that will make it a significant priority? Are there visions of developing a new psychiatry culture? Do you involve patients and relatives, and important: do you also involve the Folketing in the work you do? As I said at the outset, this is incredibly necessary. Unfortunately, the psychiatry was not mentioned at all in the financial agreement agreed between the government and the Danish People's Party just under a week ago. I'm surprised because we know that psychiatry is falling so far behind. The minister himself mentioned on the platform up here just before that there has been a boost in psychiatry. The minister went as far back as 2010, as I heard, and compared with now and said that there has been a 17 per cent boost. It's gonna be okay. It's over many years, you have to remember. However, it is worthwhile to bear in mind that if you look at the same period from 2010 to 2016, there has been an increase in the number of patients of 30 per cent. And that is why we are seeing that, although more money has actually come, there have been significantly more patients, and therefore the treatment is not sufficient and perhaps even worse than it was six years ago. That is why we really need to deliver in this area. As usual, I am tempted to say, the psychiatry was referred to the rate pool agreement. This year, various pools were allocated primarily targeted children with mental disorders of about 100 million. kr., and of course it's better than nothing, no doubt about it. It is fully known to the Danish Parliament's parties why Enhedslisten is not in the movement pool. It is because the money comes by taking the money from pensioners, the sick and the unemployed who should otherwise have had it. But I also think that we have a structural problem when we repeatedly see this sort of thing from temporary projects and temporary attempts via the rate pool. And we hear that from the staff out there, who both experience it as highly demotivating for their work and also experience it as devastating for continuity, when in this way you have to start a project that can be really good, then shut it down again and have to start over that way. The Minister is now saying that it is not very much at issue. If I look at the agreement that has just been reached here next year, then it is virtually all the initiatives that are for psychiatry, which are temporary pools or trials. I have also received an answer from the Minister, where I have asked what it is like if we look at the last three. At least I can see that there are 12 projects that have stopped. And perhaps particularly worryingly, the Minister says that we do not actually have a complete overview of what happens afterwards. You don't really know if they're being followed up on these trials and these pools, you don't know if anyone else is taking over or if they're just shutting down. And that's one of the things that makes it feel like stop and go all the time, and that you don't get this stability and continuity that you need. If I were a minister, I would not hesitate to say: yes, psychiatry is my first priority. We must have a significant priority for psychiatry; we must have much more stability. I would like to refer to both Norway and England, where I think there is great inspiration to be found. Back in 1998, a psychiatry reform was carried out in Norway with a 10-year aim. There we can really talk about having an ambition to really change psychiatry. 24 billion were set aside to lift the psychiatry, both of course to be able to have more resources, but also to be able to restructure the psychiatry you have. And quite recently England has made a plan of action for the next 10 years, in the same way a really ambitious plan. The English action plan is based on involving more than 20,000 users of psychiatry and taking their starting point on how to change. So my call to the government is to be inspired by these ambitions that we see from Norway and England, and seriously address it to see mental health, mental disorders on a completely different scale than we may have arranged our health care for; that is perhaps the most important health issue we have. Finally, I would like to thank the Socialists, the SF, the Radicals and the Alternative. I am very pleased with the proposal for adoption which I can read out in a moment, as we stand together. I think we emphasise that it is quite clear that a significant priority must be given to psychiatry and that a new action plan is needed. I think it points forward and gives hope. That is what I shall end with reading. The proposal for adoption on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party reads as follows: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that mental illness is among the areas which require the highest priority. A long-term Psychiatry Psychiatry Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Psychic Parliament calls on the government to initiate an action plan for psychiatry that could follow the current action plan, which expires in 2018. The action plan shall include: address more systematic prevention, a broader and more individual treatment perspective, systematic involvement of relatives, adequate capacity and reduction of coercion. The Danish Parliament notes that despite an additional grant from the rate pool in 2014, there is less money per year. patient than in 2014, because more need treatment. Therefore, a new action plan should also include a significant priority for psychiatry so that users of psychiatry can get the right and adequate help in time. Parliament notes that psychiatry needs stability. Therefore, psychiatry should be better financed by permanent funds rather than temporary pools. • V 11).
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112445	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further negotiations. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democrat Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112458	Thank you for that, President. I would like to begin by commending the Minister for the interview she gave in Kristeligt Dagblad yesterday. Here the Minister indicates that psychiatry is important and that she even has a psychiatry note in which she notes things down. The Minister is concerned about the sharp increase in the number of children and young people who end up with a diagnosis and become patients in psychiatry. I am glad that concerns the Minister. It also worries the social democracy that so many young people are going down with stress, anxiety and depression, and it is therefore also surprising that the Minister is waiting for a whole year to react. A year is actually a long time when you think about the target group and also what could have been done. One thing is the concern, another is concrete action. Unfortunately, I have to say that there have not been so many of them on the part of the government. One might quite rightly ask: Why do preventive interventions and psychiatry generally not fill much more with the government? One might also ask: Why is it that psychiatry is not mentioned either in the government base or in the latest draft Finance Act? Then the intention of a report on psychiatry, which the Minister took the initiative last year, could be quite a good idea, but the question is whether we do not already have a clear picture of the state of psychiatry. The number of re-hospitals is too high. There is widespread silo thinking which complicates a coherent effort between treatment psychiatry and social psychiatry. Forced is still a major challenge, and the extent is unfortunately increasing in some parts of the country. In addition, there is a much-pressed psychiatry and staff who need to run faster and faster. It affects the working environment, it affects the quality of treatment, and ultimately it affects the most vulnerable people we are dealing with. When the Social Democracy last had government power, we took the first step in a direction that was necessary with the 2013 Psychiatry Plan. With the psychiatry plan, we set aside 2.2 billion. kr. to correct the financial backlog in psychiatry. For example, we increased the capacity of psychiatry and introduced a right of investigation and treatment for patients with mental illness in line with the patients' rights enjoyed by somatic patients. Similarly, a clear goal was set to halve the extent of coercion in psychiatry by 2020, lift children's and young psychiatry and create better physical frameworks and facilities. Since the psychiatry plan, funds have also been provided via the rate pool, as the Minister also mentioned. We have among other things. added 400 million kr. to create these new social psychiatric settlements to solve the great challenge that we face with our most vulnerable patients, namely to secure them better offers. But we are far from achieving it. There is a continuing need to strengthen the efforts of the mentally ill, not least in order to prevent mental illness, especially among children and young people. We need to move on and learn from the experience we have and look at new targeted actions that put the mentally ill at the heart of it. Similarly, we must also look at the challenges of silo thinking and the qualified and specialised workforce, which has been scarce in certain parts of the country. We need to follow up on the psychiatry plan that was launched back in 2013. There is no need for new inventions or new far-reaching projects or psychiatry notes; there is a need for action and that we follow up on the great backlog that psychiatry has suffered. We took a huge step with the first psychiatry plan, but if we do not follow it up with targeted efforts and preferably with the experience of other countries, as Mrs Stine Brix also mentioned in Norway or England, then the treatment will not be better for patients, and in the end we will fail in psychiatry once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112856	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112859	Thank you. It is just a short question to the rapporteur, who mentioned the 2.2 billion. kr. What was that money? It's just for clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112912	The 2.2 billion. kr. Among other things, it was intended to: the capacity to lift new buildings to the research part and, in particular, children's and young people's psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112930	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112936	I am just trying to ask again: can the rapporteur confirm that the 2.2 billion? kr. was wage-pool money, that is, money, which we all agreed to give priority to psychiatry, so not the priority of the previous government, but the pool funds, which all the parties behind the rate pool minus Enhedslisten agreed to prioritize? Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215112955	The initiative was launched by an SR government and, yes, it was set aside in the form of pool funds, and never has such a large sum been set aside for lifting the psychiatry. I think it was historic that 2.2 billion was set aside. kr. during the pool of rates settlement. So it is true that it was under an SR government and that it was via the rate pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113014	The next question is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113020	It is true that it was one of the largest single amounts, but I think it is part of the fact that if we look at the developments that have taken place, we can see that it is actually even. Compared to the amount of funds allocated to psychiatry, 2015 and 2016 do not differ significantly from previous years. If you look at the region's report on psychiatry, you can see that we have a fairly constant development in the supply of funds of just over 2%. However, this contrasts with a marked increase in the number of patients. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur whether the Social Democrats see a need to give more priority to psychiatry, given that there are more patients who need help and that we cannot meet the needs of today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113114	I believe that in the overall text for adoption there is no doubt that we would like to give priority to psychiatry, and we have done so on a regular basis. Much of this has been through the pool of rates, and, as I mentioned earlier to Mrs Heitmann Jane, an historic huge effort was launched at the initiative of the previous Socialist Government, with the allocation of 2.2 billion. kr. in writing. - (FR) The action plan was launched under the previous government. So yes, the Social Democratic Party would like to lift the psychiatry and would very much like to try to avoid making the same mistakes, so that we do not have to keep talking about why psychiatry is the black sheep in the whole health policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113155	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113159	I would like to thank you for the commitment and also for the proposal for adoption that we are also behind. I think it's really strong. I also think that the initiatives taken by the previous government showed a great deal of concern for psychiatry. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether, in principle, the Social Democrats think it is reasonable that it is money that has been taken from early retirement workers, pensioners, the unemployed and the sick who have to pay for part of the operation of psychiatry and, moreover, also for a number of projects. Is it reasonable that it is the group that has the least to pay for psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113238	It is always a challenge to find out how best to distribute the funds, and we must then say that, although we have managed to lift a large part of the psychiatry through the pool of funds, and much of what the Minister also mentioned has gone on and become permanent funds, we can always discuss what is the most appropriate thing. And it is also no secret that I think that in the long term it could be really, really fine if many of the funds allocated to psychiatry were permanent means, that they became permanent and that psychiatry was given the necessary boost that it needs. I do not think any of us disagree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113311	The next question is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113314	I have to ask a question, because now I heard about Mrs Jane Heitmann's question about the 2.2 billion. I would like to know whether Mrs Yildiz Akdogan knows why the amount was so large, i.e. 2.2 billion. kr., in relation to what the SR government itself would have dropped off.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113348	There are different stories about it. I know that the rapporteur asks whether this was something that emerged from the Finance Act and then became a priority. But it can then be said that the funds that were set aside could, of course, have gone to other things very easily if there had been another government. Perhaps they could have gone to tax cuts, but they were not, because they were given priority to psychiatry, and I think that both Mrs Liselott Blixt and I are very, very happy, that is to say that psychiatry was given an important and necessary injection of salt. That is not enough, because we still have to work for it, but it was now a very important boost when it was set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113423	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113426	What is so nice about having spent 10 years in the Folketing and being a psychiatry rapporteur for 10 years is that you know the story, and I know that the SR government would set 1.6 billion. kr. of, but the opposition, which at that time consisted of the Left, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party, had the amount squeezed up to 2.2 billion. kr. That is what I am asking, i.e. whether it was not precisely because of the opposition that was sitting at the time that the amount was so high.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113454	It is possible, but I have not spent ten years as a psychiatric rapporteur, but what I can say to the rapporteur is that 1.6 billion. kr. also could have been a priority for something else, but now the Social Democratic Government, together with the Radicals and the Danish People's Party and the others in the community of movements, chose to prioritize psychiatry. You can then wonder if the 1.6 billion. kr. Perhaps another priority had been given to another government, perhaps to tax cuts, I should not be able to say that, because it is a hypothesis, but I still think we should be pleased that the necessary boost was set in motion back in 2013.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113529	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Liselott Blix as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215113539	Thank you very much. I think it is a pity that a very important debate is going on many times, where there are some who mention tax relief so many times that people get it in with spoons because they think that's what anyone other than themselves is going to give. When it was they who gave tax relief when they sat in a red government and had government power, it is hypocritical. Back to the point: I'm really glad that Enhedslisten has picked up this query. Psychiatry is probably one of the things that is the pain child of all of us. We have stood here many times over the ten years I have been a psychiatric rapporteur and talked about psychiatry. I have been chairman of the section 71 committee and have been around and visited many of the psychiatric wards, some of the places that struggle most with some of the most ill people and looked at the challenges they have and talked to the patients who have been hospitalized and got an insight into what it means to be sick and get the help you need or on the other hand: not to get the help you need. I have talked to children and young people in the children and youth wards we have been to talk about how difficult it was for them to return to a daily life, heard from their parents about how it was difficult for the children and young people to get back to a daily life and be lost because no one in the municipality caught them. We have a psychiatry that crumbles in our hands, because one will go right and the other will go left, and because we find it hard to find out what it is we're going with a psychiatry. Yes, there has been a psychiatry action plan a few years ago, which I criticised because I did not really think it was a viable action plan. I would like to see an action plan where we look at what we want with psychiatry, and then it is not the money that has to come first. It must be the question of what we want psychiatry to be like in the future with the partners there are and that we have a psychiatry designed for citizens and not for the individual treatment. Everyone's talking about putting the psychiatry and the somatics on the same page. Nevertheless, psychiatry is one large pile that needs to be dealt with separately. We need separate money. We must mention it separately in a Finance Act. The Minister has been up to say that money has been set aside for the close coherent health care system. Isn't that psychiatry? Or should it be separate? Is that what you want, that you still have to settle it in one thing or another? There's money set aside in a health pool. Maybe it's not psychiatry, either? We don't even know what the money's for. Sometimes I find it a little sad that we cannot agree on what we are going to do with psychiatry, because if we cannot agree, it will be changed every time a new government or someone else comes to decide. I would like and would like us to have the Minister himself say that she will look at a plan, but otherwise we must press the Minister to ensure that we look at a long-term plan for how we do. We need to stop the influx of children and young people, which is the group that is growing most at the moment. The group of mentally vulnerable increases explosively. We see them visiting our psychiatry much more than everyone else. That's why I'm really glad we're on the bet pool. And yes, it's the bet pool, but rather use it on psychiatry than so much else. That's where we got money set aside to make sure kids and kids were safe. Because they weren't much on the psychiatry plan that was there either. That was one of the things I criticised at the time, and we also had money set aside for it. If we stop the influx to psychiatry, we can also help those who are then admitted to psychiatry and make sure that they are not discharged until they need it. There, I believe, we have some regions that have a responsibility. Patients shall not be discharged until they are treated ready to come home and be taken over either by the estate they have or by the municipality that is required to give them a handheld effort. The municipalities just have to take the responsibility they have and ensure that when the patients are discharged and come home they have a place of residence or not that they are taken care of, so that they do not get so sick that they are reinstated, as we also see, and as we heard the Minister mention. So, yes, we need to figure out how to do this psychiatry. When we were in Trieste and saw how people in Trieste had psychiatry close to the citizen, close to the family in cooperation across everyone, I could see that the beds in the psychiatry were not used. That's the way I want it to go. This is the way we in the Danish People's Party want, so we may also be free from all this compulsion, because we only come out and help people when it's getting too late. That is what we want with psychiatry, and we are also pressing for something to be done about it. Then I can see that I am about to read out the proposal for adoption. After all, one is caught a little by it and it is a proposal for adoption supported by the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Danish People's Party. Suggestions for adoption The Parliament notes that mental illness requires a high priority. The Danish Parliament notes that in January 2017, the government launched a governance review, which includes: ensure more systematic prevention, a broader and more individual treatment perspective, sufficient capacity and less coercion. On the basis of the work, the government will draw up a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry. It is the responsibility of the regions to give priority to treatment psychiatry, as the Folketing expects the regions to do. The action plan for the prevention of violence on housing offers provides for EUR 400.8 million. DKK, including 150 special places. With the 2018-2021 Rate Pool Agreement, 397.5 million has been set aside. kr. to the lifting of psychiatry, especially children's and youth's psychiatry. The Danish Parliament notes that psychiatry needs stability so that users of psychiatry can get the right and adequate help in time, including fewer re-hospitals. The Danish Parliament notes that the operating costs of psychiatry have increased approx. 17% Since 2010, and that psychiatry is primarily financed by permanent funds. This should also be ensured in the future. - - - - - - - - - - - -
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114229	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. There are a number of brief comments, and the first questioner is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114239	The rapporteur started by being very angry that Mrs Yildiz Akdogan had mentioned tax cuts, but the truth is that in the financial agreement signed by the Danish People's Party only a week ago, billions have been spent on tax cuts for example. Those who have a free phone, but you haven't spent a single penny on psychiatry. In other words, the rapporteur cannot ignore that. Then there was such a talk that now the psychiatry should not be mentioned separately, because it would be discriminatory, that is to say, it is a completely new explanation that I have not heard before. Does it also apply to the rate pool that one should not mention psychiatry separately? To me, it just sounded like an incredibly bad explanation for not prioritizing psychiatry to the Finance Act. So my question is, why haven't you? There is obviously an enormous need when so many more patients have arrived and the appropriations have not followed at all. Why has it not been given priority?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114347	I believe that I, like all other psychiatry rapporteurs, want much more money for psychiatry, but I do not agree with Mrs Stine Brix, because we have allocated money from the rate pool, which is part of the Finance Act; there are at least 400 million for children's and young people's psychiatry. At the same time, I also said in my rapporteur's speech that there is money on the Finance Act, but there is no definite psychiatry on them, because they are for the close and coherent health care system, and there is a health pool.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114414	Here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114416	There are 400 million if you add them up over four years • that's what politicians always do and that means that there are 100 million per year, just to keep up with out there. My question is: why has it not been given priority in the Finance Act? I have heard many parties, including the Danish People's Party, say many times that it would rather be seen that psychiatry was a priority through the Finance Act. Because it is not fair that it is the people who pay to the rate pool, for example. pensioners, early retirement pensioners, unemployed people, sick people who are, after all, the ones who pay for a psychiatry that is connected. So why hasn't the Danish People's Party been working for the psychiatry to get some more funding from the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114457	Here I could ask the same question: why was there no more money for psychiatry or any other important areas when Enhedslisten supported a red government? Mrs Stine Brix knows what it's like when you sit and negotiate. Mrs Stine Brix does not know whether there will be anything definite about the psychiatry from the funds we have allocated. Mrs Stine Brix has no idea what we have been debating and what agreements we have. That's what you do when you're in a closed room. And Mrs Stine Brix also knows that we are always in favour of the Enhedslisten in that we should cut down the rate pool and that the money should go to those for whom it is rightfully intended. We have supported this. But, yes, we have chosen to go in and share in the distribution so that we ensure that those from whom the money is taken get it back too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114543	The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114547	I would actually like to start by congratulating the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party on the glowing commitment that you can feel, it is just a pleasure to sit here and feel that what the rapporteur says comes from the heart. So much praise from here. I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for mentioning exactly the cooperation that we had on the priorities that we had together raised under the former Socialist Government, which was probably ambitious, but nothing near what we actually managed to lift the psychiatry with exactly the 2.2 billion. kr. I would just like to acknowledge and commend the rapporteur for the fine cooperation we had and the fine balance that I think we actually found with the 2.2 billion. kr. in terms of prioritising both resources for better physical environments, but also for part of the treatment psychiatric system. I think it is very worthwhile that we actually found each other in the pool of rates and that together, as opposition parties, we even got the framework raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114651	Thank you very much. It's rare to get praise when you're standing on the platform up here. It's usually the opposite. But it is quite correct that we got the 1.6 billion. kr. to become 2.2 billion. kr., which was also over several years, and which we have often been looking for to see how they have been used. For unfortunately, it is often the case that when we give earmarked money to the region, they go out to something else. Once we've given money to beds, we can't see the beds. We cannot actually count them in any region. That is one of the reasons why we still believe in the Danish People's Party that we should abolish the regions so that we can have the responsibility where it belongs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114728	The next question is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114732	Thank you. I would say that I have the impression, when I hear the rapporteur's speech, that the rapporteur helps to talk us politically farther and farther apart from what I see in my everyday life. In fact, I find that there is a great deal of political agreement on the psychiatric area and the challenges and problems there. That is why I cannot understand the rapporteur's rather harsh rhetoric, which says that some people are going to the right and some are going to the left. In fact, I do not feel that is what is happening, either when we discuss the rate pool, the agreement we had on the social psychiatry bedrooms or coercion in psychiatry. No, there are challenges. There are some nuts that need to be broken. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the greatest challenge in psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114821	There are many questions in it. First of all, in relation to what I said in my rapporteur's speech, I would like to say that it was not to suggest that it was the parties that went different ways. These may be psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatrist, forensic psychiatry, social psychiatry. You haven't come together. But now I know that this alliance, the Psychiatry Alliance, has just been made to agree, and it's really nice that they can then go the same way. In relation to the fact that I am becoming indignant, I would say that it is probably more because there are others who are beginning to involve every other policy in what makes us drift apart. I have always worked very well with all parties, especially red parties. I had previously very good colleagues in Mrs Karen J. Klint and Mrs Özlem Cekic, where we worked and took the same route. So it's not about that at all. But when you start talking about tax relief and start putting it on as a point, I get mad. And yes, the greatest challenge is children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114915	There is no pressure for a follow-up question, so we move on. Yes, there is still a desire for a follow-up question. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215114924	I would like to thank the rapporteur, because I think that the audience and the Danish people actually need to know that it is not here that ideology divides, in other words, in relation to what we want in relation to psychiatric patients and their relatives. However, I think it is inappropriate for the rapporteur to be directly angry with the fact that there is also financial legislation and how to get the money in place. I understand that the rapporteur is getting a little angry, because I think perhaps the rapporteur has had difficulties in getting the Danish People's Party's leadership to give priority to psychiatry at as high a level as perhaps the rapporteur would have liked. Because I think it is a problem that the only money earmarked in the Finance Act for psychiatry is those that are all our money, namely those that come from the rate pool. The fact that there is no political earmarking here and a clarification that you want to do so must be a challenge for the rapporteur and for the Danish People's Party when you speak dunders for psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115019	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115021	Well, I speak dooms and get angry when it suits me, because that is what I have the right to when others start using political tricks in connection with an issue that is so important. And as I mentioned before, I have worked very well with Mrs Karen J. Klint, where we just put away the other political mudfight when we discussed some things we agreed on. Secondly, we are drifting apart. And that's why I'm talking dunders.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115046	The next question is Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115051	Thank you. I also remember the story of how those 2 billion. kr. were put together, and that was in agreement, and then there were some who contributed something and some who contributed something else. But it was also a different economic time than today. We can, in fact, afford to do something better than we did back then. I also remember the great report that was produced at the time, and also remember who wrote the first proposal for a national action plan and who was the first to come up with the idea that when we had a cancer plan and a heart plan, why not also have a psychiatry plan. And that is the last thing I want to ask Mrs Liselott Blix. Is it suddenly wrong to mention it when we mention cancer and heart plans, because they are mentioned separately in many debates? Why is it all of a sudden wrong? That is how I felt if I understood Mrs Liselott Blixt correctly. Why is it so wrong now that you keep mentioning psychiatry as something separate?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115151	Well, that's because I think you collect the psychiatry in a pile, and that's not what this is about. Psychiatry is a lot of things. We have people who suffer from depression, anxiety, OCD, schizophrenia. And putting it together in one plan, I don't think it's right. In fact, I think we should look at each one of them and get these programme programmes under way. Because we have looked at cancer packages and programme programmes, and that is a job that has been set in motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115217	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115220	Yes, but when we talk about the big heart plans and the big cancer plans, we don't go down at the diagnostic level, you do that on the package. That is also why I am talking about a national plan of action for psychiatry as something superior, an umbrella. I don't think we should have a schizophrenia plan or a depression plan. I agree that we need something where prevention and treatment are more closely linked. It helped to put an end to the municipal reform, or at least to pause it. So what exactly are DF's proposals on how to proceed with a holistic psychiatry where money is being allocated to it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115301	Well, it was like I said earlier that I wanted a big plan, but it can be in different sub-plans. For example: I know that there are many people who would like to have a children and young people action plan, and I would also like that, because much more needs to be done in the area of cross-sectoral work called education, support and contact points and many of the other things that you need in the municipalities, employment, education, settlements, and what else might be needed. I think it's important to make a kids and young psychiatry plan. So I do not believe that everything can be contained in one plan, and I would also like us to treat people according to what they are wrong, instead of just categorizing them as mentally ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115342	The next question is Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115347	I think it was a rather violent outburst to call another rapporteur hypocritical. It seemed violent, I thought. It was at least a powerful word to use in relation to each other in here, because, as the rapporteur himself says, we are working far along the way towards the same goal. I don't want to start talking about rocks and glass houses and everything else. I just want to ask: the Danish People's Party plays a central role in this financial law debate. We all know that. So why is it that the Danish People's Party has not ensured that the psychiatry is included in the budget in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115431	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115433	Oh, there was a lot I, as a health rapporteur, would like to get paid off. I am very pleased that in the last few years we have had much more money spent on health care than the previous Red Government had done. I would also like money to be set aside for the treatment of neurological diseases, where there is a very long wait in our hospitals and where patients do not get the right help. This is also one of the reasons why we are pleased that money has also been found for free choice in terms of rehabilitation. So there are many things that I think should have been given priority. I am very pleased with the money we have set aside for the psychiatry from the rate pool, and I am sure there will be more initiatives for the money that we have set off on the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115514	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115516	However, as I heard the rapporteur say, the Danish People's Party agrees with Enhedslisten that the money should not be put off in the rate pool, but should be on the Finance Act. I heard the rapporteur say that just now. No? Well, okay, then I've heard completely wrong. I thought I was listening very carefully. I would like to ask again: I can hear that the rapporteur has many wishes, but why is it that the rapporteur is giving this speech and has his heart's blood in this area that the Danish People's Party is not giving priority to psychiatry, given that the possibility is there?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115556	As I said earlier, we are very much prioritizing psychiatric issues. This is reflected in the rate pool funds, and this is also reflected in the Finance Act. What I said about the bet pool was that we would like it to be closed down. But as long as it is there, we are pleased that we can just drop money for the psychiatry, where we sit and know what is happening in this area. Our financial negotiators don't know that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115621	The next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115624	Thank you. I just want to follow up a little bit on what Mrs Karen J. Klint said. I had a little doubt as to what the rapporteur meant entirely in terms of psychiatry priorities and not priorities, because as I heard in the rapporteur's speech, it was about putting psychiatry and somatics on the same footing that it was, as it were, part of the total health costs of the current financial law for the near health care sector. So I would just like to hear: is it such a general position on the part of the rapporteur that we should not separate somatics and psychiatry and prioritise psychiatry with the benefit of psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115711	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115712	I'd like us to look at a disease like a disease and not just put one in the booth like one who is mentally ill. Perhaps that is why we have a taboo subject when you talk about being mentally ill. We do not have a somatic plan of action, and that is where I say it differs. We are not talking about a somatic plan of action and a psychiatry plan. We're talking about a psychiatry plan, and then we're talking about cancer, heart, and that's where I'd like us to go down a lot and say that there's a difference between whether you as a citizen go down with depression and need help, or you get one of the more serious psychiatric diagnoses. There is a very large difference between lifetime, medicine and treatment, and that is what I would like to see separated. You can't put everyone in a box. We cannot do that in the somatic field, and neither can we in the psychiatric field. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115805	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115806	I am in complete agreement with the rapporteur on this, and I also think that if an action plan is to be drawn up, all the nuances of psychiatry and the different types of mental problems that people can have must of course also be taken into account. So I fully agree with that. I'm just thinking about the big sum of money for health care: how do we ensure that the backlog of psychiatry is overall reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115837	First of all, we need to ensure a plan that also takes into account the shortcomings that exist. At the moment, in the Region of Zealand, we have a department that cannot address patients because there is a shortage of doctors. In Vejle I have been visiting a new, wonderfully nice psychiatric hospital, where there is also a department that stands empty. We have tried to give money to, for example, in the past. Psychiatric beds because they could not provide staff, and we need to have that in the action plan exactly the same way that we looked at medical coverage. How do we get staff to these areas so that we can open the beds that are actually waiting for the patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115916	The next question is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215115920	I think there are many things that we very much agree with, and that is why it is also important, when we talk about psychiatry, that we do not use some bassant expressions, such as which side you stand on, or those and us. Nor do I recognize the word hypocrisy in my speech, but I would like to ask the very indignant rapporteur: when it is the case that the Danish People's Party is a support party and that we have never had as much room for manoeuvre as we have now, and when it is ultimately a question of prioritising the priority in many ways... how can it be that we are not just trying to push that agenda into the Finance Act and saying that this is a very, very important area and that we can afford it when the rapporteur himself has said that children and young people are the greatest challenge in relation to psychiatry? Why is it that the Danish People's Party does not choose to prioritize it on the Finance Act, focusing on psychiatry and children and young people?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120028	First of all, I would like to say that the rapporteur said that it was not the rapporteur who used the word hypocritically 'no', it was I who spoke hypocritically. It may be that I should go home to see how many times the word tax relief was used, because that is what is believed to be DF in favour. I believe that the people are gradually aware that the DF has currently put its foot down and is fighting for a bill of finance. But it is hypocritical because, when you were in government and you could have given priority to psychiatry, you helped to make top tax concessions, and because you used what you were involved in when you were in government against others. We are not in government, we are a support party. And when you are a support party, it is the case that you negotiate; some things we can get through, some things we cannot get through. That's the game. It would have been different if we were the ones who were in charge, but we are not. Social democracy did so when they had the power of government. They made tax cuts, and there they could have spent the money on psychiatry instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120128	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120130	Well, you can really be surprised at the answers. Very briefly: Has the Danish People's Party proposed that the psychiatry be included in the Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120142	What the Danish People's Party is saying in a closed room does not actually come to Mrs Yildiz Akdogan's attention.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120154	The next question is Mrs. Julie Skovsby, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120158	But we believe that this is a matter for the electorate. After all, this question debate is about a long-term plan for how mental health and psychiatry can be significantly prioritised. And that is what we want to hear the Danish People's Party's response to. So you want a long-term plan for psychiatry?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120225	It is now a pity that I do not remember who was here during my rapporteur's speech. I don't know if Mrs. Julie Skovsby was here. At least it doesn't sound like Mrs. Julie Skovsby was here during my speech. That is precisely where I was talking about the great plan I would like to see put in place, which could last many years in the future. However, we may also have different views about how it should be, because I would like to get it much more out in the municipality, so we help people before they are admitted and before they need to be reinstated. That is what I was talking about in my rapporteur's speech. You can find it online after.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120256	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120258	Thank you, I was here and I heard the praise of my Socialist colleague. And I fully agree with it as far as the psychiatry rapporteurs we have had over time are concerned. This is a very important matter for the Social Democratic Party. I also heard that Mrs Karen J. Klint mentioned that we are now in a different economic situation than we were before. And now the question is: what are we going to do in the future? Do we want to prioritize psychiatry? Does the Danish People's Party want money in this country to go for prevention and to get better treatment in psychiatry? Because it's about a lot of people in this society, and there are a lot of Danish families who have family members who are affected by psychiatry. So do you want to prioritise and finance psychiatry for the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120351	There is no doubt about that, and I have said so in the past. If it were up to me, we would have a lot more money for psychiatry, in general for health care. Then we could not buy all sorts of other things or whatever it may be. But now I'm not the only one in charge. That is the way things are now, and I actually recognise that when I have spoken to psychiatry rapporteurs from other parties. They say it can sometimes be hard to get through. It's not a secret. If anyone comes and says that they can get their previous government or current government to do everything they say, then I would like to see them now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120425	The next question is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120429	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Liselott Blixt what she thinks of the fact that the Social Democratic Party itself has not proposed to allocate money to the psychiatry in their draft financial legislation, given the questions that are being asked here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120448	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120449	I'm surprised. So, with what has been said in connection with my rapporteur's speech, I would have expected that there would be a few billion people waiting for psychiatry if their draft budget were voted through, so I am very pleased to hear that. At least I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120508	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. We'll move on in the series of speeches. The next speaker is Mrs Jane Heitmann as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215120519	Thank you for the floor, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for taking the initiative on the question here. Psychiatry and the challenges of psychiatry are a major and important area which is very dear to us in the Left. Last month I attended the OCD Association's anniversary meeting, and it was in every way a festive day. It was also a day that was used to address many of the challenges of psychiatry and overcome both taboos and myths that flourish among citizens and health professionals, patient associations, etc. I will spend some of my speaking time here today to get rid of a few myths. This is particularly about the funding of psychiatry, which the Enhedslisten is specifically calling for a debate on. Let me immediately put down myth one. The rate pool is also finance law, even if we negotiate the rate pool in a decentralised manner in the rapporteur's circle, where, as you know, Enhedslisten has chosen to be outside. When we talk about financial law and the funding of psychiatry, the truth is that a large part of the funding for psychiatry is permanentized. It leads me to the killing of myth number two. From 2010 to 2016, the contribution to psychiatry has been 1 billion. kr., of which approx. 950 million kr. This means that the vast majority of funds are permanently made available. Enhedslisten wants the psychiatry funded by the Finance Act. Why, you can ask yourself. I am often confronted with statements in debates in, for example. patient associations such as: If only the psychiatry gets on the finance bill, it would all be much better. And yes, that's a tempting solution, but there's just no easy now and here-solutions to difficult issues that you're boxing with in the psychiatry. Today, psychiatry is financed primarily by funds from the economic agreement concluded by the current government with Danske Regions. Next year's frame is 112 billion. kr. and thus a boost compared to previous years. This brings me to myth number three. Psychiatry, therefore, is financed primarily from neither the rate pool nor the financial law, but from the funds agreed each year between the government and the regions. It is therefore a regional responsibility to ensure, for example, that: the staffing of the departments is sufficient and care is taken for the patients. One might, of course, ask whether funding through the economic agreement is primarily an optimal financing model. And that is precisely the question we are uncovering. The previous government, that is, the Social Democratic led government, started a job, and then we got the report "A modern, open and inclusive effort for people with mental disorders." The report identified a number of challenges, ranging from rapid investigation and treatment to enhancing quality with national clinical guidelines and the use of coercion. However, there are also a number of structural governance challenges, including: how to manage the economy, how to ensure better coherence across sectors and, last but not least, how better use of data can support good patient outcomes. These are all challenges that need to be addressed in the context of the health management review that this government, led by Minister for Health Ellen Trane Nørby, has launched, and the objective is among other things. A new plan for psychiatry. We in the Left share in every way the point of departure that there should be a safe and sound framework for psychiatry, but I can also easily see the value of using the pool funds to initiate and test experiments for which otherwise it would not be possible to find funding; the experimental scheme for medical cannabis, which we have just adopted, trials on belt-free sections and user-controlled beds, to mention now a few exciting projects with potentials that go far beyond the experimental period. Recently, we have launched a completely new action plan to prevent violence on housing offers and prioritised more than 400 million. kr., among others. In addition to 150 special places in psychiatry, we have set aside nearly 400 million with the latest pool agreement. kr. to a boost of psychiatry, especially children's and youth's psychiatry. For the figures speak their clear language, it is urgent that action be taken. In children's psychiatry in the Capital Region, less than half of the patients were diagnosed within 30 days of the third quarter. We can't offer that to kids. Children are a vulnerable and vulnerable group, and we know that the sooner the children come under skillful treatment, the better chance they have of doing well later in life. From my chair it is quite unacceptable for the Capital Region to play gambling with children's health and future by jamming the right to rapid investigation. In the Left, we have an ambition to lift the Danish health care system, which must benefit patients and not just disappear to expensive dojøfs and spreadsheets at the regional office. And then let me make it clear once and for all that psychiatry is not primarily funded via the rate pool, which Enhedslisten is trying to draw a picture of. The bet pool is a supplement and an opportunity to initiate and test new models and initiatives or simply go new ways. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we always have our eyes focused on finding lasting means, just as we must always have a strong focus on improving efforts for people with mental disorders and creating a solid framework for both treatment and housing provision. Finally, I would like to say that both the Left and the Conservatives can support the text which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121039	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121045	Thank you very much. Thanks for the speech. You could say that money is one thing, that is, funding. You can do something with money, but that's not all you can with money. There are other barriers. I was a little surprised that the Minister for Health did not mention this in his speech, and now the rapporteur of the Left does not. From a social democratic point of view, one of the greatest challenges we have in the whole of the psychiatric area is the lack of professional staff. We have, as the previous rapporteur has also mentioned, empty departments waiting for patients and patients waiting to enter the departments, but this country does not have staff to man the departments. And I would like to know whether it is aware that it is not mentioned in our question here, precisely to see what it is needed to improve the quality of psychiatric patients and relatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121150	I believe, hand on heart, that it takes many things to improve quality. These are trained doctors, highly trained psychiatrists. Yes, we have a challenge. I share that ambition: I would also like there to be more educated psychiatrists. Fortunately, we agreed with the former Social Democratic Government when we adopted the rate pool that more hands were needed for psychiatry. After all, it is not just about doctors, it is also about the arrival of ergotherapists and physiotherapists, and that we are strengthening the people who are around the mentally ill when they are in hospital. That is the one challenge we have. But we also have a challenge in that once we have finished, and we get out of the psychiatric department, people are also ready in the municipalities to hold their hands under the people whom we know need special supportive action. That is why I have to say to the Socialist rapporteur: there is not one answer or one solution here; there are many handles on which we need to turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121300	I think that some of what we could achieve with a question like this one is that everyone also expresses a great deal of understanding about the importance of the problem, because the whole psychiatric area is in the situation as it is and we want something else. I think that if you have a debate here where you would like to gather instead of spreading, I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the main reason why the Left does not think that you can support the text of adoption which Mrs Stine Brix read from the red parties? Because there is nothing in the text on which I think it should not be able to bring together an entire Parliament. Is it because, on the part of the Left and the governing parties, some glorifications of their own initiatives are being made, or what is the reason?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121352	At the risk of being shot at all sorts of things, I would say that I think this is a rather sloppy starting point, because I could of course reverse the question and say: what is the reason why the Social Democrats and the rest of the red bloc could not support our adoption text?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121412	The next question is Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121417	Thank you. The wage-pool agreement that has just been concluded contains a number of initiatives for psychiatry. They're all temporary. I have received a reply from the Minister asking what it looked like with projects that ceased in 2014, 2015 and 2016. It was 12 projects that came to an end. The rapporteur himself highlighted the example of belt-free departments. It is a project which has just ceased and which the Capital Region cannot continue because there is no money for it. The Minister says in this answer: the Ministry of Health and the Elders does not have a complete knowledge of which of the above projects, after the end of the pool allocation, has been continued under the second framework. That is also one of the reasons why the National Audit Office has expressed a strong criticism of the fact that social policy and psychiatry policy are being done in this way, where so many temporary projects are being carried out and where we do not follow up on what happens afterwards. I would like to quote the chairman of the Danish Psychologist Association, Eva Secher Mathiasen, who said to Altinget less than a month ago: what is happening is, the project is ending, the focus is disappearing, the good results fade away, you cannot agree on who is to finance an extension. As long as psychiatry does not come into the Finance Act, it will be difficult to create lasting success stories, make psychiatry an attractive place of work and give patients the necessary confidence in the system. Doesn't the Left think we have a problem here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121535	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121538	I would very much like to repeat what I said a moment ago, namely that from 2010 to 2016 there has been a contribution of approx. 1 billion kr., of which 950 million. kr. In other words, permanent resources are by far the majority. I've also heard the story of the belt-free sections. We have even had the Capital Region in the presence of the Committee on Health and the Elderly, and there I asked what it would cost to continue the initiative, and the answer was that it would cost approx. 5 million kr. I also think that I have taken note of the following. The rapporteur must now correct me if I am quite wrong about the fact that in the Capital Region of Denmark they have just been found. 5 million kr., as it will cost to continue the initiative. That is the point of the economic agreements, because it is precisely here that we are financing psychiatry. That is what has been the starting point, among other things. from that government here, namely that every year the pot has actually been raised to the regions, in other words the economic boost through the economic agreements, at the latest by 1⁄2 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121648	You can get a high figure of the fact that it is the permanent resources that are left. It's because they disappear temporarily again. That's the whole point. You start a lot of experiments, a lot of pools, a lot of temporary projects, which means that the reality of the staff is that they are involved in starting up good projects, throwing a lot of energy into it and often getting good results, then they have to stop again and fire the new staff they have hired, and what do you say, "work out the experiences they have done." It is, of course, the frustration that is then built up out there because there are so many temporary projects all the time. I do not understand why the rapporteur cannot deal with the frustrations that we hear from so many organisations and that they are not relevant in this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121733	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121734	I certainly think it is relevant to listen to organisations, to patient associations and to the employees in the departments. That is always relevant, and as a politician one must be completely open to accepting the input you get. But I also think it is important to say that in our health services we also need to test some initiatives. Now we talked about belt-free sections just before, and I could also have mentioned user-controlled beds, which are, of course, an initiative that we have prioritised in the rate pool and set aside funds, and there has been such good experience out there that there is now a potential for rolling it out at national level. This is exactly how to use the rate pool, that is to say to get some ideas, to be inspired by input from associations, from staff, for example. from other countries, and try things out in a Danish context, find out what works and what doesn't work, and take the best of it and roll it out in a national context. That's one of them. That is why every year, through the economic agreement, the current government has given priority to raising the funds so that there is also room for further priority to be given to psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121844	The next question is Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121847	Thank you. Thank you for your speech, and also thank you for many years of actually always good cooperation in this area, so I also expect that I can only ask a short question. I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur mentioned the big plan, that is to say the 2 000 or several thousand pages that were drawn up a few years ago, when we just got a working group of special experts and other stakeholders to make some proposals on psychiatry. I also understood that the rapporteur says that we would like to continue working on this, and that is where my question comes in: do we in the Left have a time horizon for whether we see a plan 2 or a proposal or just an invitation to participate in future planning work, which may still be about money and facilities, but surely also about the culture of psychiatry? How do we get a common foothold in this? Is that part of the Left plan?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215121944	I would also like to acknowledge the long-standing cooperation I have had with the former Socialist psychiatry rapporteur. It's always been a pleasure. I would just like to say that what can really help to push things forward in politics is that you have good, close and confidential cooperation and that you can discuss things in a sensible and proper way. I recognise the work of the report commissioned by the previous government, and I certainly think that there are things in it that are worth working on. If you are going to cut to the bone like that, you can say that a control review has now been initiated. I do not know what the outcome of that review will be, but it is clear that once it has been completed there will be pointed out to the sore toe here and the sore toe there, and that there will probably also be some recommendations for, or at least some strong indicators on, where it would make sense to continue working on something. So I do not want to stand here and anticipate the course of events, but only note that a review has been initiated, and that is what we have to stand on when we need to find out how we can make a plan that points forward and that can help patients in the psychiatry to improve their lives and to improve their treatment options.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122110	What I was looking for was both whether there was a time horizon in it, but also whether it is something that will run under a closed political regime, or whether it is something that will embrace most parties, not to say all parties in the Folketing. So I would like to repeat that question. I would also like to ask, for example: The good advice we have from the Ethical Council on how to prevent power and violence in psychiatry is also a reflection on the work that is now evidently being done narrowly in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122144	I have great respect for the work being done in the Ethnic Council, and I often have great pleasure, both politically and personally, in the recommendations made by the Ethnic Council. Most recently, we have discussed, among other things. I have certainly benefited from the input from the Ethical Council. How exactly the process will be in relation to the control review, I think is a question that needs to be asked to the Minister for Health. I look forward to getting the results of the governance review and hopefully getting something useful to work on, because I think it is obvious to all of us that there are some challenges we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122246	The next question is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122251	Thank you. I choose to take the floor in order to stress once again that when we all agree on the challenges surrounding psychiatry, it is actually also surprising that we cannot even agree on a common text for adoption. And then it was that my colleague Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen asked Mrs Jane Heitmann what it was that it was not possible to agree on the common text that Mrs Stine Brix had. Actually, there wasn't an answer. I just want to ask you how it can be that you don't really think it's good enough. Is there something missing, or is it because you want to have your own priorities and drive in another direction? It just puzzled me, and I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122341	There is such an old saying that as you shout in the woods, you have to get answers. I just put a question to the Social Democrat health rapporteur on what was in our text that could not be agreed. The rapporteur has now left. But then I can ask Mrs Yildiz Akdogan whether she would like to point out what it is that does not suit the Social Democracy in the text that we have sent around to all parties in the red bloc as an attempt to be good and loyal partners?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122412	In the text of the adoption, there is little more than a list of the funds that have been set off in the rate pool. The text of the adoption that I would have liked us all to agree on says that we will follow up the action plan that was launched and that we will take the experience of that action plan and work on it. Is that something that the Left disagrees with, since they think it is not good enough? Or is it because you have an idea of doing something other than that action plan, rather than following up on the action plan that was before?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122446	After all, the government has launched a health management review and, depending on what the control review shows, it will be possible to set out the priorities that we think will be right in terms of running the health services in the direction we would like to see, namely putting the patient at the centre, whether you are a patient in the somatic or psychiatric health system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122513	There are no more brief comments, so thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next speaker is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122526	Thank you. For too long, psychiatric conditions have been downgraded for too many years and considerable efforts are needed. We have among other things. Too few beds, and we need to do something about that. Fortunately, however, we are well at work, although there is still much that can and must be done better. But what has been done so far is that 2.2 billion has been set aside. kr. for the period 2015-2018, and this year 150 new places have been agreed for settlements. In addition, we have just made a wager pool agreement focusing on psychiatry especially for children and young people of approx. 400 million kr., and then there are 500 million. kr. in the economic agreement with the regions. So there's actually a lot of things going on. But there are two things that are particularly relevant to these initiatives, and that is: 1) that the waiting time in psychiatry has fallen, so that does not mean, as I said, that there is nothing more to do; we are far from achieving it. However, we must justifiably say that not all efforts have had enough time to show results yet. Another thing that applies to these initiatives that have been set in motion from in here is that not enough of them have been set in motion in the regions. One of the aims of the money was, among other things, to: to get more beds. Instead, there have been fewer beds. That is one of the major problems. Too few beds suffer severely from the vulnerable people who desperately need hospitalization and treatment. We see far too many acute re-hospitals and all too often patients who themselves are seeking help because they know that they can be a danger to themselves and others or to society are rejected. Afterwards, we see that the very same patients have come so far that they now have to be subjected to forced treatment, and often the police have to go into it instead of having the resources to receive them when they themselves approached them. The poor performance of psychiatry can have terrible consequences for patients, relatives and victims and also for health workers who make a great effort every day. At the same time, it is expensive for society. The government has started work to find out what actually happened to the funds allocated. We need to follow this work very closely and see the outcome of it, and a report is expected here at the end of the year or at the beginning of next year, which is of course shortly. I am very pleased that the government will draw up a comprehensive plan for the development of psychiatry. With regard to coercion, we have already agreed on a specific objective that the proportion of persons who are subject to forced fixation should be halved by 2020 and that, at the same time, the total use of coercion in psychiatry should be reduced precisely in order to avoid what is termed substitution effects, in other words, where belts are simply replaced by other forms of coercion. Last but not least, I would like to see the use of private beds increased. For example: the psychiatric hospital Skovhus Private Hospital in Nykøbing Sjælland has empty beds that are not used, despite being approved, that you have an agreement with Danske Regions and that they seem to be significantly cheaper. But in the end, it is the regions that are going to succeed. They are the ones who have to implement the initiatives. And as they often say in other contexts: We have created the framework, now it's up to you it's up to the regions to fill them out. And it is an important task to ensure the necessary help for people with mental disorders. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which has been read out by Mrs Liselott Blixt and which confirms that mental illness requires high priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122942	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. We move on to the next speaker, and that is Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215122956	Thank you. In Denmark, as we have heard today, we have a psychiatry that has been pushing too hard. I'll start by trying to put it in perspective. In Denmark, mental illness represents the greatest burden of illness in society at 25%. in relation to the overall picture of the disease. Danes receiving treatment for mental illness have increased by more than 43%. Since 2007, and in the Central Jutland Region, the figure is 54 per cent. We have about 400,000 people, both children and adults, with anxiety in Denmark and 300,000 with depression. In Denmark, mental problems cause 50 per cent. of all long-term health reports and 48% of all long-term health reports. of all early retirement pensions. The National Centre for Safety and Health at Work estimates that the total direct and indirect social costs of mental health problems in Denmark annually amount to 55 billion. kr. Yet it is still the case that we have to find the resources for psychiatry in the pool of rates, because the area is not a priority in the Finance Act. Psychiatry is virtually not mentioned in a word in the Finance Act that is now. We are in a situation where we see a development, a very sad development in psychiatry, and we need something done. So thank you to Enhedslisten for taking the initiative for this query debate. If I'm going to give a small snapshot of the psychiatry in Denmark, I would say that many settlements and daily offers have been closed down after the county's resignation. For example, in Aarhus alone more than 150 day-off places have been closed down following the municipal reform, of which over 100 were previously run by the county. A similar picture emerges in other regions. Psychiatry has lived on borrowed time over time on pool funds, but even though the projects in the rate pools are important and show good results, they are usually shut down again afterwards. There are major problems in recruiting psychiatrists, and about a third of the main educational positions in psychiatry are not occupied. We see an increasing number of violent and threat records among emergency psychiatric staff, police are spending their resources on psychiatric patients, an increasing proportion of homeless people suffering from mental illness and problems, and there are increasing numbers of young homeless people with abuse and mental problems. There is a huge number of re-hospitals, too much use of coercion, less money per person. patient, not enough acute beds and not enough staff to provide proper psychiatric treatment. Yes, as you can hear, and as we have also heard from other rapporteurs, it is serious. As politicians in this Chamber, we have a huge responsibility to carry out the serious task we face, and we can do that in various ways, but here and now the level must be raised. In the alternative, for example, we have set aside money on our own draft budget, which we have among other things. a national strategy for the mental well-being of children and young people in psychiatry, and we have set aside money for peer two peer projects, and we have also set aside money for a homeless game. It's just to mention some of the things we've set out to do in our financial law game. We also believe that there is a need for a serious focus on prevention and non-medical methods, as well as on follow-up opportunities and rehabilitation in the context of psychiatry, and that applies here and now. In the alternative, we would like to see an ambitious long-term plan drawn up for the area together. We simply have to, at the same time as asking how we can help those who suffer from mental illness, also learn more about how to prevent us from even facing the situation we are facing today, where we have to treat so many people. It is sad, and we must do something about it. We also need to ask ourselves what structures we have in society that we can change and that we need to change in order to reverse that trend. As you can hear, there is an enormously positive will on the part of the Alternative and all other parties here in the Folketing to do something. We should not neglect the fact that we have given great and fine priority to the pool agreement in this round, but that is just not enough. We need to have more ambitious and more consistent measures than the rates pools. That is why, as I said, we agree with the need for priority and we support the adoption text read out by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215123500	No brief comments have been requested, so thank you to the alternative rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215123515	First of all, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for this question, because it is crucial that we constantly focus on psychiatry and on how we can do better. One thing is certain: psychiatry must be prioritised and not just with pool funds. We also believe this in the Radical Left, and we have therefore set aside permanent means of lifting the area on our draft budget. When we sit together around the table for the health pool negotiations, it is encouraging to note that we all agree that we are actually spending the vast majority of money on psychiatry and that we agree that this area needs to be strengthened. And the same consensus would be nice to find in a discussion on a new action plan. And perhaps this debate today has already given me the hope that perhaps we can agree on this, since the Minister for Health mentioned a plan in her speech; she did indeed call it a development plan, but for me the word is not so important if we agree that what we want is a longer-term plan for precisely psychiatry. We would like the money, the resources, for this plan to be given greater priority and, at least, not just as a pool of rates. There is not only one answer to how we should prioritise psychiatry, but that we should do it is evident. For psychiatry, major and complex challenges face: switching treatment from long admissions to a greater extent of outpatient treatment, more patients, not least in the field of children, more complex cases, among others. with several mentally ill addicts and lack of professional staff. At the same time, the number of beds has come down so far that it does not cover the need. The Radical Left therefore believes it is absolutely necessary for us to gather together, preferably all parties of the Folketing, on a national plan of action for psychiatry and, at the same time, to agree with each other that this action plan should not only be funded but that we can also work together to find more permanent funds for the area. The Radical Left can support the proposal for adoption previously read out by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215123756	There are no brief comments. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215123806	Thank you, and first of all thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this query debate. It is both relevant and important. Prioritising psychiatry is, in fact, about ensuring that people with mental disorders have the opportunity to get the right and adequate help in time. That is not always the case today, and that is one of the reasons why we should have created a new long-term plan of action for psychiatry. I have to say that I actually share the optimism of the radical rapporteur, because I think that the action plan is sometimes a little rejected, but on the other hand there are still some other notes that give us hope that we can reach an agreement on getting things done before long. This action plan must, of course, be made widely by the political parties, but it must also be made to a large extent with the involvement of users and relatives and employees in psychiatry. There are a large number of initiatives to be supported by a new action plan. Indeed, a new action plan must focus strongly on ensuring help for mental problems before they become too serious and demanding for treatment. In particular, efforts towards children and young people are central, and I know that the Minister is concerned about this. Psychiatric disorders are felt for most first time before their 25th birthday. So the prevention of mental disorders and displeasure among children and young people must be given priority in a new action plan. The psychic disorder must be discovered in the past, and there must be an opportunity for easy help, whether it be family treatment, psychotherapy or educational support. At the same time, it is essential that the coherence and coordination of psychiatry improve. This is generally the case in cross-professional cooperation, and this is the case in cooperation between municipal and regional initiatives, for example. also in the transition from young to adult. A psychiatry that is connected, both in the eyes of people's whole lives and in individual transitions, is essential to maintain the hope of getting better. It should not be the one who is already in a vulnerable situation and has complex problems to find around in the system, and it should be taken seriously that if you are to get better, you actually need stable relationships that you are comfortable and trusted. It is in psychiatry, as in social work, that relations work. The transitional problems are particularly acute when it comes to children and young people. Whether it is in the municipal effort or in the regional effort, the transition to adulthood is abrupt and young people find that there is a great difference between the help they received before and after the 18th year. Psychiatry still needs an economic boost. Expenditure per Member State patient is today lower in psychiatry than they were in 2014, when we gave an additional grant of 2.2 billion. kr. in connection with the first psychiatry plan. The number of Danes in contact with psychiatry has increased significantly. Psychiatric disorders are something that most people have in mind, namely by being themselves affected or by being a relative. Therefore, it must and must be a bottom-up task for us here in the Folketing to find more money for psychiatry, both the part that regional treatment represents, but also the effort that municipalities and civil society must make. In my view and in the view of the SF, a greater part of the funding of psychiatry would like to have a more permanent character over the Finance Act. This is the stability the psychiatric system lacks today. For SF, it is absolutely crucial that in the future we ensure that all patients retain the hope of getting better and the belief that they and others influence it and that we all have the right to an active and meaningful life together with others, whether we are tumbling with mental problems, hospitalized or otherwise need help. We need to make sure that happens in a number of ways. We must ensure that in the future psychiatry can provide citizens with a wider and wider range of treatment options and support. People are not their mental illness, but have different experiences, resources, desires and needs. That's why the whole human being needs to be focused so that the psychic disorder isn't seen in isolation. It is necessary to challenge the existing, most used treatment methods with alternatives so that we constantly develop a psychiatry that provides the best and most relevant help and treatment for the patient. This requires, on the one hand, an extension of treatment provision and, on the other hand, a massive investment in research in this area. In the future, we must also ensure to a much greater extent that people have the right to more influence on their own treatment and become an active part of the treatment. Citizens' own belief in the treatment and confidence in the professionals to help is essential for the treatment to have a good effect. So, in addition to starting with the individual, it must be focused on what relationships and relatives are in the immediate circle and can support the patient's hope of recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215124331	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215124343	Thank you for the comments and contributions made by the rapporteurs, whom I think it is a subject which everyone attaches great importance to. I think that is a positive conclusion of today's debate if one dares to draw it. Because that's what we need. Psychiatry needs to be given priority, and that is also what is apparent from the proposal for adoption made by the government with the Danish People's Party and which I hope there will be several parties to join before the vote on Tuesday, because I think that it will send out a strong signal in terms of how we can develop and prioritise our psychiatry together, including ensuring that, in the context of the cult excavation launched back in January, work is being done in the working group now in progress between the National Association of Municipalities, the Danish Regions and the State, in relation to how to ensure greater coherence for patients, better cultures, the management of structural problems in the psychiatry area, that is to say, that we can also ensure that it leads to an ambitious, long-term plan for psychiatry. I think it's been called such different things up here from the platform. I called it a development plan. For me, it's not about words. It is really a question of signalling that development must take place, and that is why I perhaps think about that concept, and it is also important that it is a long-term plan, and that is also clear from our draft proposal for adoption. Because if there is something that psychiatry needs, it is a stable framework and a developmental perspective, where we also need to see what we are working towards, and also to be able to take much more account of the good experiences that there are in some places, so that we too, where we can see that unfortunately there are too many failures of citizens with mental illness, get much more picked up and learn from some of the things that work in our psychiatry. I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for also pointing to this discussion that everything should be called either somatics or psychiatry. After all, the financial law we have jointly drawn up points broadly to priority areas of health care. Nor are we talking about the somatics of our Finance Act, because for us, it is about which areas of cross-cutting health care need priority. I also pointed out in my introductory remarks to the proposal on the close and coherent health care which we have agreed jointly that there should be where more than 200 million are allocated each year. kr. Also on the pool there are 100 million. kr. Every year, which should focus on priority areas of health care. I think it is important that when we talk about close and coherent initiatives, including the 20 recommendations from the committee, we look at the fact that it is not the case that it is just the somatics. This is also very much a matter of psychiatry, because there are a large number of areas where there is currently not enough coherence in the treatment that people with mental disorders receive in our treatment system. In my introduction, I chose to welcome the initiatives that we had jointly set up when there was a previous government, and the initiatives that we have jointly taken with the pool, including that last year, to create an action plan to prevent violence at settlements, that is to say the boost of over 400 million. kr. in relation to a really exposed group of our psychiatric users. We also did so to ensure better conditions for employees in social psychiatry and at our settlements. That was something we all promised together. Similar to this year's stake pool negotiations, where we from the government went to the negotiations with a clear priority that we should strengthen the psychiatry of children and young people. There I was pleased that we received broad support, and I think that we were able to raise the area even more together. Other parties may then have the aim of saying that they themselves have the credit for everything. I think that what characterises the effort here is that we have taken it up together. I would also like to acknowledge this, because I think that, in a sense, psychiatry needs that, in other words, the fights are being packed away a little, and results are being highlighted. Mrs Yildiz Akdogan pointed out that one waits and that nothing has been done. I have to point out that this government has acted from day one, but we have also said that there are some things we need to look through in the field of psychiatry when we need to create a long-term development plan for psychiatry. Because this isn't just about money. It is also about structural challenges, it is about culture, and it is about organisation in some places. That is why we need the working group and the culture of psychiatry that we set up. That doesn't mean we've been sitting on our hands since. There is the whole strengthening of the psychiatry of children and young people, which we have jointly financed with the pool agreement, the development of the programme, in other words a large number of things that are just working and going to work. There is the whole strengthening of the PPR area and thus also a broad strengthening of what is needed to prevent children and young people from coming into contact with the treatment psychiatry, because we will be much more able to take action in the past. So I definitely don't agree that you're just sitting around waiting for your hands. However, if we are to make an ambitious and long-term plan, we also need to tackle some of the places where we can see it structurally not working. In order to be able to make the right decisions, I am of the clear conviction, a little like I actually saw the previous government working on the basis that it is good to have a proper working basis for making decisions. I must also say that I am surprised by those who, like me, want to turn this into a discussion that things can only be financed by the Finance Act, because in my universe, the rate pool is an opportunity to give priority to psychiatry, as well as to the 500 million. kr., we lifted the framework of the regions with annual as part of the economic agreement, and we also said clearly that they should be used both to lift the somatics and psychiatry. So why that discussion? What is important, I suppose, is permanent means, and this is also evident from the joint adoption. All in all, I look forward to strong cooperation in this area. I did the same when we had the big question debate back in January. I think we proved this, also jointly, in the wage-pool negotiations. I think we have clearly shown this with the close follow-up we have had together on the 2.2 billion. kr. And I hope that we can have strong cooperation in the future, also in relation to the preparation of an overall plan for the development of psychiatry, so that we ensure that there is a high priority and a better and more stable framework around psychiatry, so that we also get a grip on the challenges that we know there are in psychiatry today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125007	There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Stine Brix. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125011	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Minister for stressing once again that there is an ambition for a long-term plan to prioritise psychiatry. I think that is a very important conclusion. I think we can draw that to a conclusion in today's debate. Because, as I have heard the debate, it is certainly a wish shared by the whole parliament, and that is very important. It has been called for by many organisations that we could be sure that there would be a follow-up to the plan we have at the moment. What I would like to ask the Minister is whether it is possible to expect a significant priority to be given to psychiatry in this respect as well. After all, for the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, the text of their adoption does something to write that the appropriations have increased if you look back over the last six years. However, this is due to the fact that the proportion of patients has increased significantly more. So there's a need for some more money if you're going to be able to keep up with it is my conclusion. So I would like to ask the Minister: can we expect a significant priority to be given to such a plan in this way?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125116	After all, with the agreements we have made this year, we have already allocated more funds to psychiatry, and I will neither reject nor confirm anything from it; neither an amount nor how it is to be organized. I think that we also need to look at it in my comments on the large number of people, as much as 24 per cent who are being repatriated. I believe that we also need to focus on how to use resources today, including when it comes to reducing, for example. forced in psychiatric conditions. Why do we succeed in this in some places when we do not succeed elsewhere, regardless of the fact that the economy around the departments where we succeed does not look so different from those where we fail? So it's also about finding some experience before you kind of start saying that it's just a question of how big the check should be. That is also why I think it is important to wait for the recommendations that are made in order to have a real long-term plan for psychiatry, where we also address some of the things that may be culturally related, structural things, and thus also try to ensure that we cannot break some of the negative circles that also exist, both when it comes to too many rehospitations, and when it comes to the regions where, unfortunately, we see that the use of coercion is increasing, for example. in the Central Jutland Region.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125224	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125226	This has to do with the fact that during this period we are talking about the number of beds has actually fallen by 250. So for me the conclusion is clear: more money is needed if we are to be able to keep up with it when 30 per cent comes. multiple patients. I would like to ask you two things in the plan that the Minister would like to make. One is whether one intends to involve the Folketing in that work. I hope so very much you do. The second is whether to take as a starting point the very large investigation work that was done back in 2011-2012. Because I can be a little worried about whether you are doing too much coal digging and working group, because a really, really thorough work has been done. Many of the things the Minister talks about, we know we have to do. So are we starting from the great work that is already going on?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125311	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125312	Yes, of course, we are also starting from the good recommendations that have been made in the past. I have also had the pleasure of having meetings with a number of organisations to get their input, and I also have the pleasure of having to meet with even more of them, because it is important to involve them in this area. And yes, without saying what it will look like, I also intend to have a debate in order to ensure that we have an anchoring of it. Then there is the question of beds. I agree with that if we look at it in such a long-term way. After all, it has also been a focus from the parties, also with pool of rates, where we have allocated specific money to ensure a higher number of beds in psychiatry. Unfortunately, however, over a number of years we have seen a decline. But if you look at the figures for 2016-2017, you can actually welcome a small increase in the number of beds. And then the 150 seats will come in 2018, and I think that will be part of a solution as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125402	Then it's Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125405	Thank you. The Minister has already mentioned this in his reply, but what I can be a little concerned about is precisely when some steps have been taken, both with an explanation and an action plan, where there has been constant praise, but also criticism, and where the Minister himself has listed many of the challenges we face. I can just get a little worried about the further coal dig that needs to be done. The question is: do we not already have enough knowledge in this area to get started? That is actually what I was trying to do in my rapporteur's speech. But I can hear that the Minister is also aware of that. So this long-term development plan, which the Minister is talking about, is actually the same as the action plan that we others want to continue, or what is it like? And how wide should it be? Can the Minister try to elaborate a little more on what is in it? Because I don't think it's just a question of concepts. There must be something else since the Minister does not use the word action plan but a development plan.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125515	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125517	Thank you. In relation to the question of whether we have enough knowledge, I have also had the pleasure of discussing with the Socialist rapporteur here in the Chamber on a paragraph 20 question, I must just say that no, I do not think we do. And I do not share the rapporteur's view that we could just say tomorrow what the solution to all this is. If the rapporteur and I have also said so to the rapporteur in the past, then the solution is to break the curve in relation to far too many re-hospitals, then present it now so that we can do so. I hope that this coal excavation will also give us some input, both in terms of structural and cultural matters, and where there is a lack of coherence and other things that make me think that we are not succeeding as much as I would like with the efforts in psychiatry today. In relation to the question of what things are called, I replied to it earlier, and I would say that for me it is not about what it is called. It's about how it works.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125604	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125605	All right, what I hear the Minister say is that the Minister is slightly in agreement with the adoption text that we are asking for, in other words, that we are just trying to take the experience and advice of the action plan that was put in motion and continue to work on them. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it? Or is it a new move? Because I also want results to come, but you might as well work on what you have instead of inventing the deep plate, and that is really just what worries me. I would just like to make sure that the Minister is also interested in the many good initiatives, including those that have been taken. from the analysis report, and experience, will be continued instead of inventing something new.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125647	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125649	As I said in my introduction, some of my concerns are very much but I can hear that is not the rapporteur's focus... that there is a lack of follow-up to good experience in some places in our psychiatry; they are simply not followed up elsewhere in our psychiatry; there is the big regional difference we see where we can see that in some regions we manage to reduce the use of coercion while in other regions we see a worrying increase in the use of coercion. Should we follow up on that? Of course we do. That is what this is all about when it comes to creating a long-term plan. That is also why it has been important to get to the bottom of what it is that succeeds in some places and does not succeed elsewhere. So, yes, of course, we have to take on board the experience, but we also have to get to the bottom of what it is that does not work. Because there are some places where things work less well than they do elsewhere in our psychiatry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125734	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125737	Thank you very much. I think the Minister and I can agree that it is a pity to use good energy on a bad cause, but we can also agree that it is also a pity to use bad energy on a good cause. Here we have a good cause and we must stand together, and we must really put into practice what we have been responsible for here in the Folketing, namely helping to set up a long-term framework and a good economy for those who bear the responsibility for the psychiatric patients also feeling that we really have a welfare state that takes care of them both in the short term and in the long term. The Minister will make a long-term plan, and that is also what the question is about, and I fully support that. We just have to be careful that it doesn't get too long. That is why I would like to ask a few questions: what is the Minister's intention or thoughts about when we will be able to act where we have to act politically? That is one question. Perhaps the Minister, like the other, could tell me which things the regions and municipalities are expressing are the greatest barriers to raising quality in this area when the Minister has discussions with them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125849	The minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125850	Thank you. The current plan expires at the end of 2018, and it is the Government's ambition that we have a new long-term plan for psychiatry that can take over when the current one runs out. I think it is important that we have a long-term development perspective for psychiatry. In relation to what is being mentioned, many things are being mentioned: it is a complex area and there is not one solution. And the solution is not just to send more money. The solution is complex and requires many things. The questioner himself pointed out in some of the previous questions that we also have a recruitment challenge. That's why I think it's important that when you look at this, you don't get to think it's just about one thing. That is why there is a need both for the coal digging and for the long-term plan, which also involves the actors. And the working group currently with KL and Danske Regions and the state must also help to ensure that we come all the way around, in relation to how we ensure proper conditions for psychiatric users in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125945	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215125946	Thank you. I think that is a very good answer. I can say that this is at least what we are discussing in the Social Democratic Party is the good plan for this. The Minister has not really been held responsible for the fact that nothing has been mentioned in the government's constitution on psychiatry or, in fact, in the Finance Act. But is the overall picture of the Minister such that, in terms of the resources needed in the field of psychiatry, it is both in the municipal area of responsibility and the regional responsibility that the government will take the view that the funds needed will of course be provided?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130026	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130027	In any case, I note that the draft budget of the Social Democratic Party does not include a proposal in the field of psychiatry either. I have had the pleasure of also discussing this issue with Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the author of the question, a few times in this Chamber. Here, too, I have answered, and I would like to repeat this, that I think it is important that every time we talk about health, we do not need to put somatics or psychiatry in front of every sentence. For me, it is more important that when we talk about the development of our healthcare, we talk about overall development, both for our psychiatric patients and our patients in the somatic healthcare system. I think that what we need is for us to think it much less silo-separated. This is also the reason why we, together with the Danish People's Party, say in relation to the close and coherent way that psychiatry plays an equally important role as somatics. That is why neither one nor the other has been mentioned, because it is the overall health care system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130116	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health. There are no more brief comments, and to conclude the debate it is Mrs Stine Brix, the rapporteur for the questioners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130124	Thank you for that and thank you to all those who have taken part in the debate. I've been really fond of it in spite of bushy words sometimes... I don't look at any particular and different views of the matter. In fact, I hear it, just as the rapporteur by the Radicals said: at least on one point we have an agreement, and that is an important agreement, namely that we need a new plan that can follow the existing one, in terms of how we can change and prioritise psychiatry. This would be a very, very important step, and I would be very pleased with that if it could be the conclusion of today's debate. There are a number of people to whom I would just like to thank because they helped me prepare for this debate and marked this debate. First of all, I would like to thank Linda, who has also been here today to hear the debate. That's thanks to Mikkel, who's a psychiatric physician at Risskov, and who also wrote to me. It is thanks to Lone and René I think they have written to everyone in the Health Committee who has told about their experiences with schizophrenia and the savings that are currently in North Jutland. Thanks to all the organisations, Better Psychiatry, SIND, Danish Psychiatric Society, Medical Association, the Social Network, all of which have contributed with lots of important information and suggestions for this debate. I'm not just speaking for myself. I'm quite sure of that when I say that the e-mails that many people, individuals, individuals, write us about the experiences they have with psychiatry make a very, very big impression on us, and they help remind us that we have a very great responsibility. So thank you for them, and please keep writing. This is a very important input to our work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130310	We thank Mrs Stine Brix. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 19 December 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130336	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 19 December 2017. A explanatory statement from the author of the questions, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130359	Thank you. The Danish People's Party has raised this question debate with the wording: What initiatives does the government intend to take to ensure hearing impaired care in health care, given the long waiting times for hearing aid treatment, and what is the working group set up in connection with Bill No. L 59 from the parliamentary year 2012-13, which was to examine the double role of the ear doctors, arrived at? Many hearing impaired people today do not get the best help and treatment in their hearing loss. There are up to 123 weeks of waiting in the public domain. The Danish People's Party wants us to act politically on this, and that is why we have raised this question debate, which is also a follow-up to the legislative proposal adopted by the previous government, namely L 59. Even then, the Danish People's Party had a number of concerns, which we also included in our report, including concerns about increased waiting lists and the problem, as the National Audit and the coal excavation report also pointed out, that the specialists today can function both as a referee and as a salesman of hearing aids at one and the same time. The evaluation of the legislation and L 59 came here in March 2017 and has shown that hearing aids and hearing rehabilitation are both comprehensive and highly complex. And it also shows that regardless of age, it can have profound consequences in everyday life if you do not receive appropriate treatment for your hearing loss; it can be communication difficulties, loneliness, isolation, frustration. The report has also shown that hearing loss is linked to lower employment rates and earlier withdrawal from the labour market, which has both significant negative economic consequences socially, but certainly also personal consequences for those concerned. So how do they get approx. 34,000 people who are on a waiting list for public hearing aids, quickly the help they are entitled to? With a current average waiting time of 59 weeks, the regions are faced with a huge task which is not given sufficient priority. That is why we have called for this debate and I look forward to a good and constructive debate in which we can debate and, above all, discuss solutions to better hearing care. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130619	Thank you for the explanatory statement. Then it is the Minister of Health for the Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215130630	Thank you to the Danish People's Party and to Mrs Karina Adsbøl for raising the question. I am asked in the question what initiatives the government intends to take to ensure that the hearing impaired is properly treated in the health care system, given the long waiting times for hearing aids. In addition, the question arises as to what the working group set up in connection with Bill No. L 59 in the parliamentary year 2012-13, which was to examine the double role of the ear doctors, has arrived at. I will start by answering the first part of the question on how to ensure proper health care for hearing impaired people. Hearing loss is a disorder affecting a large number of Danes, and there is no doubt that hearing loss can have extensive consequences in everyday life. A study carried out by the then Social Research Institute in 2006 shows that hearing loss is associated with lower employment levels and earlier withdrawal from the labour market, and that therefore, in addition to the social isolation that may exist and the problems that individuals feel, there can also be significant socio-economic consequences associated with hearing loss. Fortunately, the treatment with hearing aids can in many cases help to reduce the loss of function, and for the government it is therefore important that citizens with hearing loss receive the right treatment • at the same time an independent treatment without the influence of interests in the hearing aid industry. It is the case that if you need a hearing aid, after receiving a referral from an ear-nose-neck doctor, you can choose either to receive free hearing aids in a public audiological department or to go to a private hearing clinic with a public grant. I think that basically is a very good thing: that you have both a free choice and a few more options. The two possibilities apply to the vast majority of people with hearing loss. For a small group of patients, however, hearing aid treatment is required in a public audiological hearing clinic. This applies, among other things, to: children and adolescents under the age of 18 and persons whose ear-nose-neck doctor suspects that you have an ear disease or that hearing loss is more complex. Those patients should be referred to a public department because they want to ensure that the right professional competence is present in the treatment. Unfortunately, as the questioner also refers to both in the question and here in today's motivational speech, we can see that there are generally far too long waiting times for hearing aid treatment in public audiological departments. An inventory of waiting times is updated continuously at eSundhed.dk, and the latest inventory from December 2017 shows that waiting times across the country vary from 4 weeks to 119 weeks • yes, you heard correctly: 119 weeks! And it goes without saying that it is not an acceptable waiting time, in places where we have such long waiting times. However, it has to be said, and perhaps it is the little disclaimer, that there is some uncertainty associated with the calculation of waiting times, as there are among other things. may differ in the method of registration from hospital to hospital. But no matter how precise the figures are, I agree with the Danish People's Party that it is unacceptable that people should wait so long for a hearing aid. My ministry has discussed the matter with Danske Regions and asked how Danske Regions can do more to spread the experiences that exist in regions where they have actually managed to reduce waiting times. As a follow-up to the discussions, Danske Regioner has recently prepared a report to the Ministry on how the various regions are working to reduce waiting times. This report shows that the regions have taken several steps to help free up capacity, which can then be used to reduce waiting lists. I would just like to mention a few of the examples, and I would also like to send the Danish Regions' statement or status to the committee if there is any interest in it. Several regions have opened new public hearing clinics during 2017, and in some regions agreements have been concluded with private-practical ear-neck doctors that they can provide hearing aids on public terms. In addition, an agreement has been concluded in the Capital Region with the Municipality of Bornholm, which means that in the future the Communication Centre Bornholm will have to carry out a large part of the hearing aid programme. It can be said that this is also one of the points raised in the proposal for adoption which I understand has been discussed in the Danish Parliament. Region Sjælland has recently decided to change the requirement that after four years you should have a reference from a practicing ear-neck doctor in order to have a hearing aid returned. The aim is to make the re-release of hearing aids more flexible and at the same time to free up capacity to reduce waiting lists. Then I would also like to stress that it is important that the regions take this issue seriously and also work to ensure capacity and offers close to the citizens. And in addition to focusing on reducing waiting times, it is also important to ensure that patients with hearing loss are adequately informed about what they have of treatment options. In the spring, we published an evaluation of the area which shows that a number of patients experience that it is difficult to find out what you really have of opportunities as a patient when you need a hearing aid. It is clear that this is something we need to follow up because otherwise the choices that are make little sense. As I mentioned earlier, it is indeed the case that the majority of patients with hearing loss today have the opportunity to go to a private hearing clinic with a public grant for both treatment and hearing aid. It is absolutely essential that we ensure that patients are aware that this is an option they have, otherwise nobody will be able to use it if they are not also aware that they have that opportunity and that offer. Danish Regions are therefore in the process of strengthening and updating the information material available in this area in collaboration with the Danish Health Authority. This applies both to the information provided by the regions on their websites and to the written information provided to citizens to inform them of their options when they come into contact with the regions and address a hearing loss problem. As I also mention, there is a small group of patients with hearing loss who today cannot choose a private alternative to public treatment. This is actually also the reason why the government has decided that the hearing aid area should be included in the health service check, which ends here at the beginning of 2018, and which the government has launched as part of the work on the cohesion reform. Overall, we want to strengthen the possibilities for free choice, and this also applies to hearing aids. Therefore, it is also important to look at what barriers and what opportunities there are in this area. Then I will move on to the second part of the question, which is about ear-nose-neck doctors and their association with hearing aids stores. This is an area that has been focused on in the past and that we also want to continue to focus on, because it is important for the patient to see that there is transparency in this area and that one can choose an offer where one also knows whether the referring ear-nose-neck doctor himself is a private dealer or not in this area. In cases where the private ear-nose-neck doctor is himself a negotiator, it is crucial that citizens can also be confident that doctors guide the individual patient on a factual and medical basis. On 1 November 2014, a new regulation on the cooperation of healthcare professionals with the pharmaceutical and medical industries entered into force. The purpose of these rules is to ensure independent patient care when healthcare professionals have both clinical work and an association with companies with medicinal products or medical devices. The new legislation was drawn up on the basis of a committee work in which representatives of, inter alia: The Medical Association, Danske Patients, the Pharmaceutical Industry Association and the Medico Industry were involved. In this context, there were, among other things, the following: a registration obligation which means that the owners of specialized stores with hearing aids must notify their business to the Danish Medicines Agency. A provision has also been introduced that ear-nose-neck doctors may operate or be associated with a special store with hearing aids after having notified their association with the Danish Medicines Agency. The regime monitors compliance with the rules of association, and it is a very important area that we ensure that there is no doubt about the ability of the hearing area. Of course, patients should be able to be confident that ear-nose-neck doctors guide and treat on an impartial and health-care basis and nothing else. That is why I can be concerned when I receive inquiries that there are problems in this area, and that is why it is also important that, on the basis of the evaluation that is, of the rules, we look at whether there is a need to tighten up and in what ways there is a need to look at and update the rules on viability in this area. So I would just like to sum up briefly and say that I agree with the authors of the Danish People's Party that the waiting times for public hearing aid treatment today are far too long, and this is an area on which the government will focus and which I also hope we can focus on together. It is also important in this area that the regions are better able to learn from each other's experiences. It goes without saying that, when today's variation in waiting time, according to the latest figures, spans four weeks and 119 weeks, it has succeeded in some places, and in the places where it has succeeded, we must also ensure that the good experiences are spread to other places. Then we need to strengthen information for patients so that they also know what opportunities they have to be treated in the private sector, and thus very often even closer to where they live, because there is a greater density in a number of the offers that are available. The government is working to strengthen free elections in this area, and I hope that today's debate will also provide a good basis for the work that needs to be done both on the basis of the evaluation of the eligibility rules, but also when the monitoring of free elections rules is in place that we can have a good debate on how we can ensure even more that the waiting lists come down and that the individual citizen also has options in this area. So thank you to the questioners, thank you from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215131644	Thank you to the Minister for Health for your answer. We are embarking on the debate and, first of all, the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215131707	Thank you. I had some doubts as to whether it was me or whether we moved on to the next rapporteur. First of all, I would like to sign for the Minister's reply, but also in relation to the Minister's statements in Altingen today, where the title is, of course, that the hearing area should be cleaned up. This is a very good start, and I am also looking forward to the evaluation that will come in 2018. But the question is, what can we do now, because when the public subsidy on hearing aid treatment was greatly reduced in 2012, the search for hospitals increased, and the waiting lists have almost doubled since then. That was our concern too. I have just been on waiting information today and printed out the waiting times for treatment, and it screams to heaven. There is only one treatment site that has a wait of 4 weeks, otherwise it is 25 weeks, 34 weeks, 40 weeks, 48 weeks, 50 weeks, 52 weeks, 56 weeks, 60 weeks, 65 weeks, 75 weeks and 123 weeks. This is totally unacceptable. Already in May the Minister wrote in a reply to the Danish Parliament that the Minister had discussed the waiting times with the regions and how the area could be strengthened forward. If we can then still see the long waiting times, is it that the Danish People's Party's disability rapporteur has become impatient, because when does it turn? And when is something going on in relation to concrete action for the benefit of those involved, namely those who have hearing loss? Even if we carry out a public health guarantee from here, there will still be challenges for hospitals to be able to serve their citizens due to a lack of qualified staff. I believe that we need to be realistic in order to get the waiting lists down, and this must also be done in a way that allows citizens to receive the best possible and individual treatment and also to be close to their homes. That is why the private sector must also help more so that we can quickly bring the waiting lists down. So can and will the private sector. After all, the sector has declared itself ready to do so in a way that will lead to greater transparency in the future in relation to the quality of the overall treatment offered to citizens. This will strengthen the individual's ability to make a free and informed choice, and here I am also thinking of the uncomplicated hearing loss, because children and complex hearing loss are always referred to public treatment. The Danish People's Party also believes that we need to look at the quality of hearing aids. There are no special requirements for quality today, apart from the fact that appliances must be CE-labelled, which is a European regulatory framework for medical devices, but the question is whether that is good enough. In connection with the evaluation of the legislation, L 59 came in March 2017, and there were also some areas that could not be clarified, and the Minister also stated in a previous reply that it was due to lack of data that citizens' own payments could not be elucidated and it would of course have been desirable if they had had the data. The Danish People's Party does not want increased user charges in this area. The evaluation, which came in connection with L 59, has also concentrated only on the treatment for the uncomplicated hearing loss, so we probably also lack some more knowledge in relation to the complex hearing loss and the treatment of these. That is why I think we can start looking at, for example, now. the letters that are sent out to the citizens or that are now more likely to end up in the e-box, to see if it is clear what opportunities you have. Are you properly informed as a patient? In future hearing rehabilitation in Denmark, it is recommended that the existing courses be thought through in order to create a more targeted education. Is the Minister in dialogue with his ministerial colleague on this and what initiatives are being taken in this area? The evaluation in relation to L 59 highlighted that it is a challenge that no standard procedure has been established for the questionnaire provided by private hearing clinics in connection with a treatment and that the response rate varies from clinic to clinic and that there is no such follow-up schedule for treatment in public audiological clinics. I think that citizens' experiences are important to take along, and some initiatives could also be considered here, including whether citizens should also be asked about public audiological clinics. The National Audit Office wrote back in 2012 that the measurements carried out today by citizens' satisfaction with the treatment and delivery of hearing aids in the private sector must be carried out by an independent actor. Today, the measurements of the clinics are made by distributing questionnaires to citizens. However, the collection and reporting of the information is carried out in different ways in the different clinics, and it does not seem that this challenge has been solved if the evaluation of L 59 and the comments of the National Audit Office are compared. Now I see that the President has risen, but in conclusion I would like to say that the most important thing for the Danish People's Party is that we achieve a proper hearing care that ensures rapid and effective treatment for the hearing impaired, and that is why we would very much like to discuss broadly how we, as a society, can succeed with it, also in relation to all the billions lost and all the great human costs it has. So my expectation to the Minister is that the Minister will convene us at the Ministry in the near future so that we can resolve the challenges that exist. Thank you for the floor. Is there a agenda? ) Yes, there is a proposal for adoption. You want me to read it? First Vice-President Yes, please.). On behalf of all the parties of the Danish Parliament (DF, S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) I would like to read out this proposal for adoption: The Danish Parliament notes with regret that the waiting time for hearing aids in public hospitals has increased and varies between 4-123 weeks. Parliament wishes to strengthen its efforts in this area and urges the government to take the initiative for a future-proof solution to the waiting list problems and to strengthen citizens' awareness of free choice in this area, including citizens' ability to make use of private audiological clinics, communication centres and private practitioners. This is based on the rules applicable to the provision of hearing aids with public subsidies. In addition, the government is invited to make suggestions on how to adapt the return of hearing aids both in public and in private. As part of the efforts to improve hearing care/treatment, the Folketing wishes to increase transparency and considers it important that the government, when evaluating the associated rules, makes proposals for stricter rules when ear-noseneck doctors both treat patients with hearing loss and are associated with companies with retailing hearing aids. • V 13). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132424	This proposal for adoption is then part of the further debate, and it was on behalf of all the parties of the Folketing as I understood it. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132433	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for putting this question. I just have a question. I had the impression that the rapporteur said that the private part of the hearing area should be used to a greater extent. As I see it, there is indeed a waiting period, whether it is in the private or public sector. Is there a capacity in the eyes of the Danish People's Party that is not being exploited at the moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132503	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132506	What I hear from the stakeholders in this area is that they certainly believe that they can help to remedy the waiting lists, and that is where I would like us to look. Because if the private clinics have the capacity to reduce these waiting lists, then I think we should use it and that the citizens will certainly be better informed that that possibility is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132529	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132532	I am in favour of the citizens being given good information. That is also the position of the Social Democratic Party. However, it is the case that citizens, or let us call them patients, have the opportunity to go to the private sector. To me, the figures show that they actually have enough to do out there too. So it is just to hear again: Does the Danish People's Party believe that there is a spare capacity in the private sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132600	Yes, I believe that private individuals can contribute by helping the public in relation to the long waiting lists that are, and I think we should have that checked. One is whether you, as a patient, are also informed that that possibility is there, another is that many people choose, I think, the public rather than private, because you have such faith in the public sector. I think that we should at least, if only, examine how much capacity is available and, possibly, make use of it, so that citizens can receive treatment as soon as possible, so that we can reduce the waiting lists.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132633	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215132642	We in the Social Democratic Party are very happy to have the opportunity to take this debate on the hearing area and hearing disability. Our health services must, of course, be geared to helping citizens quickly find out what is wrong with them, as well as helping citizens, patients, to put up a treatment quickly. It has consequences if there is no possibility that health care responds to those tasks in a timely manner. After all, it is Danske Regionser who has the task. It is my impression that they are struggling to do the job in everyday life. It's also my experience that a lot of users in the hearing area think there's some mess over this area. I'll meet with that. They say that who is responsible for it, and why are they responsible for it and which professional groups are involved, and should it be public, or should it be private? Now we got an evaluation of the bill called L 59. It was a tough birth for that bill. It lasted for a very long time over changing governments. This was one of the areas in which I, as a politician, saw that there were many very insistent and strong stakeholders. That's probably some of what's still going on in this area, i.e. that there are strong stakeholders. It is there among patient organizations and good for it. There are also trade union organisations, and that is also fine. And, of course, there is also the private part of this which has their own interests, and we also have an industry that plays a very significant role in this area, because Denmark has traditionally been one of the countries which has been strong in the development of aids for hearing impaired people, among other things. hearing aids. In the social democracy we want the best quality for all citizens who need help in our health care. And when that desire is to be fulfilled and I acknowledge that it can be really difficult we need to look at whether you have enough capacity and whether those who are assigned to the tasks have the right skills. When we talk about the area, I think it is right to try to make a distinction between citizens and patients, namely whether they have complicated or non-complicated hearing disabilities. That is something I believe and hope for. I could also hear that the author of the question here today also mentioned that we need to distinguish a little here. Who is it that solves what tasks? That is also what the Minister said. I think that's a way out of the morass that I'm not afraid to say some people think there's in this area. When I say that the Danish Regions are fighting the battle, it is because it is not nice for anyone that there are the very long waiting times, as the Minister also illustrates here. After all, that was one of the things that was part of the dialogue when we adopted the law back in 2012-13, where not all parties in the Folketing voted in favour of the bill. I was a little disappointed about that, but I believe that political trends and interests have now drawn closer together, and I am therefore very pleased that we have had a joint text for adoption on this question. This is, of course, the question of government initiatives, and I am glad that a statement has been made in relation to the work, but I am a little sorry, I would say to the Minister, that we have not been sent that statement before this question. But do it as soon as possible so we can follow up on this. I feel that when we talk about increasing capacity, which to me is where the shoe is absolutely pressing the most, I have also listened to what the hearing association says, namely that this is a matter of trying to find out how we can make the best use of the capacity. It is, of course, waiting hours in the public sector, what the hospitals stand for, which is the biggest problem. Because you go out to the private-practical ear-nose-neck doctors who are lifting a really big job in this, there aren't that long waiting times, and there aren't that long waiting times if you go out to the hearing clinics. Therefore, we must try to find out which patients are going into the hospitals, and that is the complicated ones, and these are the children. I would therefore hope that we can use all our energy to find out how to do it in the best possible way. I have made it clear in the past that we have challenges in terms of re-exportation, that is to say, if we are to have it done in the public sector, a re-reference must be made. It doesn't make any sense at all when you don't have to do it in private. It's just one picture of it. And then there are the communication centres, which are public and which we have 20 of in Denmark. It is a question of trying to build up their professional skills so that they can also solve more tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133210	With a little speed, the rapporteur achieved everything. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133217	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I have a question. It's something I've been thinking about. It is not certain that the rapporteur can reply to that, but since the government of which the rapporteur's party was a part reduced the subsidy for hearing aids at that time, it must have released a certain amount of money, several million kroner. Does the rapporteur know where those funds have gone?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133246	I cannot immediately tick a tick, but it was intended that money should be saved. It is quite true that this was one of the reasons. It could be seen that when the public sector purchased hearing aids through Amgros, which is the regional purchasing centre, they could get them at a significantly lower price than the one they could be bought for in the private clinics. And, of course, that did not make any sense because private clinics also received a high subsidy from the public. So a lot of money was saved. The money was saved at a time when our country so much needed money to finance the entire public service, so I am of the full and firm conviction that the money has been spent really, really well. This was an overpayment, and so, of course, when we dealt with the bill, I also noticed that the private stakeholders were, of course, very sorry that the grant was reduced. But if we look at the figures today, we can see that it is very limited how many more patients go to the public than still go away on the basis of the conditions of the time • went to the private.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133349	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133350	I agree with what the Social Democrats wanted for their bill back then, but what I am thinking of is that the waiting lists had not been taken into account. They simply did not. 7,000 people wanted to go from the private sector to the public sector. That is what the draft law said, and so I was just thinking in relation to the funds that were saved and why it had not been done in such a way that the waiting lists were calculated so that they did not get as long as they are today, because that was precisely the concern. It is just a clear question as to whether there should be some funds somewhere if we are to find some funds, if we are also to have better hearing care in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133439	I am very pleased with what should be a clear question, because it gives me the opportunity to say that, from a socialist point of view, the greatest challenge in terms of the hearing area is that we have too little capacity. It has simply been too difficult for the five regions to build capacity. I am very pleased that there are discussions on this, and I have also discussed it with the regions myself. They are trying to create new clinics in the corners of Denmark, which also takes into account that there should not be so much geographical distance. But it's a question of how hard it is to find staff for it. I can say that I live in North Jutland, and there it draws headlines in the newspaper when there is a specialist who settles down, because we have long waiting times up there. So that's the gap that's the biggest.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133520	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's report to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133528	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question debate. This is an important issue for a particularly vulnerable group of citizens: people with hearing impairments, and the excessive waiting times for hearing aids, and the Left is on the side of the citizens. Since the beginning of the '00s, when we started a wave of reform in health care, we in the Left have actively combated waiting lists in health care, and we have continued to focus on this, because no one is getting well by standing on a waiting list. That is why, of course, it is totally unacceptable that in some places there is an unreasonable waiting period for hearing aid treatment, as much as 123 weeks, and from this point of view a call must be made to those who are lagging behind: tighten up! Because if it is possible to have relatively short waiting lists in one place, yes, then it should also be possible to do the other. For us in the Left, it is crucial that we also overcome geographical inequality, because whether you are a citizen or a patient in Fredensborg, in Fåborg or in Frederikshavn, you should be entitled to the same treatment and a much more uniform waiting time level. There is no doubt that living with a hearing disability is serious. Many people with hearing disabilities are challenged socially and at their workplace. For a hearing handicap is about much more than decibels and frequency. It is about the right to a life full of experiences alone or with others in the family, at work, and for sports and exercise. I have sometimes been to dinner events where there have also been hearing impaired guests, and it is not a party when the talk first goes off across the table. Noisy with cutlery, clanged with glass and laughed and talked in the mouths of each other. Then a hearing impaired easily gets lost and gets lost in the sound jungle. But a hearing handicap can often be remedied, so that a dinner party does not become a nightmare, but a meaningful activity, as long as you get the right help. Too many people do not know about the good opportunities that exist for private help, and this may be because the area is as complex as the evaluation of the 2013 legislation, among other things. pointing out. I would like even more people to make use of the private audiological clinics and from there to have a hearing aid with, for example, a hearing aid. Public subsidies, just as we in the Left consider it essential, when the government evaluates the associated rules, to have a sharp focus on the ear, nose and neck doctors who treat both patients with hearing loss and at the same time are affiliated to companies with retail hearing aids. The Left's call is to try to identify whether tightening the rules would be beneficial. The Left can support the adoption text which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out, and I should like to welcome from Conservatives and say that it is from there too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133838	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. We move on to Mrs Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215133845	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the Danish People's Party for the initiative for this debate on hearing aid. There are a lot of Danes who have a hearing loss. In fact, we can see that there is an increase, especially a large increase from 2012-2013. What exactly is the reason for this I do not know, but at least there are others who are being treated for hearing loss. And that's why this query debate is of great relevance to many. There may be several reasons why more and more people suffer hearing loss and need hearing aid. This may be because technological development makes it relevant for more people to get a hearing aid. But I am thinking that this is probably also the result of the fact that we, as a population, are getting older, and that means that there will be a greater share among those who want a hearing loss. In 2012, a majority in the Danish Parliament, including the Enhedslisten, and I myself took part in the debate, decided to reduce the subsidy for private treatment. The background was that the price of hearing aids had fallen significantly, but the subsidy received had actually increased. And we can now look at the evaluation that has been made of this change of law... it came back in the spring... that it has resulted in a huge saving for the public sector. And I think that is good and something that we can be satisfied with. It was money which both went to a research agreement that was made at the time, i.e. where one among others was. researched better health care, and also other research areas. But I also believe that there has actually been a greater saving than what was dropped by then and what has happened to that money I cannot answer. We can see that waiting lists for public treatment are still long. They have also increased since 2012. They also vary enormously from hospital to hospital. I remember discussing the waiting lists in Aarhus five years ago. They were very long then, but they have fallen markedly since then. Today it is especially Odense who is jumping in the eye in the evaluation that was made in March, and I have also looked at waiting information not today, but yesterday it was Thisted who had very long waiting lists. So there is something strange about the fact that these waiting lists are moving significantly in this way and therefore in some hospitals can be in several years, and it is of course both difficult to understand, but also totally unacceptable, so that you have to wait so long to have access to necessary treatment. I therefore think it is positive that the Minister has discussed this with the regions. I also think it might be very interesting to see what initiatives are being taken. Because there must be something you can learn from each other when you can bring down the waiting list significantly in some places, even in a period when more patients have actually arrived, while elsewhere you have had a very unfortunate development. I think it is also central to look at capacity overall, is it sufficient? For we must probably assume that we are going to see an increasing need as we, as a population, are fortunately living longer and longer. But it also means that for some of us, the ears are not as they always have been. The hearing song is special in that there are many commercial interests involved. First of all, it is well known that in Denmark we have three of the world's largest hearing aid manufacturers, and in fact they also own a large part of the private clinics where hearing aids can be provided, and you can also get them adjusted there and get advice etc. And that means, of course, that we must be extremely aware of whether the economic interests can influence the advice we receive, for example. in relation to which device but is advised to buy. And that's probably part of the explanation that many patients tell that they have a large personal fee that they wouldn't have if they were in the public sector. We have also seen a number of revelations in the past, many years ago, about hearing aids being handed out, where it was not at all because of hearing loss. And there were also situations where you couldn't use a hearing aid at all. For example: if you were completely deaf. This suggests, of course, that we really need to be aware of the fact that professionalism is in order. In the debate back in 2012, we talked a lot about looking at whether there was a real indication slip, that is to say that some people should not be treated. And what happened to that study I don't actually know, so it might be interesting to follow up on afterwards. Was it ever investigated at the time, and what did it show? Several speakers have also mentioned in this debate that it is also known that some specialists, in addition to assessing whether people need hearing aids, can own a clinic which provides hearing aids themselves, and this kind of double role can of course also be unfortunate. I think it is very important to pay attention to both of these examples of commercial interests being involved in the treatment and advice you receive. However, the Enhedslisten can support the adoption text presented by Mrs Karina Adsbøl, and I should like to welcome it from the SF and say that they can do so, although unfortunately they could not be here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134403	Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for that communication. We move on to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134410	Thank you. Being poorly heard can have some serious consequences that those who hear well are not always aware of. It may be difficult, if you are poorly heard, to keep up with a conversation, and if you then ask some questions to which everyone else has just been answered, you are just perceived as being half-dumb or something. And if a hearing impaired person wants to avoid being perceived as being stupid, he may quit the conversation because he simply gives up on it, and instead he risks being perceived as indifferent or arrogant. And neither is particularly nice if you really wanted to participate positively in everything. It is also a major problem in the labour market. It is therefore not right at all that there may be such long waiting times for treatment for hearing aids. We need to do something about that, and there are several parameters where we can take action. But one of them is the free choice, and in this area too we should strengthen the free choice and inform better about the opportunities that already exist in this area. I am therefore very pleased that the Minister will look at the possibility of including citizens with complex hearing loss in the extended free hospital choice, which entitles them to treatment in a private hospital if the waiting period for public treatment exceeds 30 days. It is also very gratifying that the hearing aid area will be included in a health service check to examine how free choice can be strengthened. In addition, it is also good that there is a proposal on how to make the return of hearing aids more flexible both in public and in private. And, of course, you have to be able to rely on a professional opinion from an ear doctor, which is why it is also good to look at the attachment rules and to assess whether there is a need for stricter rules when ear, nose and throat doctors treat patients as well as have to deal with the sale of hearing aids. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which has been read out by Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134622	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134625	I was slightly confused by what the rapporteur said about strengthening free elections in this area. As I can see, the Minister for Health has given the answer to all of us that there is in itself an almost extended free choice in this area, because as it is today, patients and citizens can go directly to the private hearing clinics after they have consulted an ear-nose-neck doctor who has said that they must have a hearing aid. Can the rapporteur just say what the Liberal Alliance is thinking in this ball street?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134702	Thank you. I'm thinking there's no clear information about those things. There is some confusion about who can and who can not and when you can and how you can, and therefore not enough use the free choice. They are in line, I almost said, waiting for a long time instead of using the free choice. Perhaps it is not the case that all groups are free to choose today, even those who have complicated hearing damage.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134729	Then we thank Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. And then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215134741	First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for asking the question we are debating today. It is important that we safeguard free and equal access to health, and it is vital for us that health care is based on the individual patient, so it is not acceptable for anyone to wait a long time for hearing aid treatment. There is far too much difference in how long people have to wait from 28 weeks in Horsens to 124 weeks in Odense. There's gotta be a better way to do it. Too long a waiting period has major consequences for the individual patient. Today, between 24,000 and 34,000 people are queued to be treated and assigned hearing aids. There are very many people who have problems hearing, so the treatment of hearing problems is a central area for many Danes. So the big problem we are facing is the insanely long waiting times that we see for as many as two years and four months. When the hearing area is not equal to other health areas, this means that the general treatment guarantee of 30 days does not apply to hearing loss, and the problem is great for those who suffer from hearing loss, because untreated hearing loss poses a greater risk of isolation, it offers a reduced quality of life, cognitive impairment, depression, anxiety disorders and falls accidents for some people. At the same time, there is also a significantly higher risk of early withdrawal from the labour market. With regard to double roles, which is the second part of the question here today, there has been a lot of debate about the dual role of the ear-noseneck doctors, and it may be problematic that Danish ear doctors have such an interest in their patients getting a hearing aid because, alongside their medical practice, they sell hearing aids. What the ear doctors are being paid for is health promotion, and what citizens expect the ear doctors to do is that they provide health promotion and not just provide hearing aids. This requires that you as a patient be treated by medically trained staff and that you as a doctor tell your patients about all the possibilities and therefore not just tell about your own store. Finally, I would like to say that we can support the adoption text of the Danish People's Party, and I should also like to welcome from the Radical Left, which unfortunately could not be present, and say that they also support the adoption text of the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135046	Thank you to the rapporteur. This means that no more rapporteurs are asking for the floor, and that is why it is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135104	Thank you for your comments, and thank you for the broad support for a joint proposal for adoption in this area, in which it is also emphasised that there is a need to do a number of things in this area in order to improve the conditions for those citizens who have a hearing loss. And once again, thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this issue for debate in this Chamber, so that we can also focus on what we can do in the near future to improve our efforts in this area. I would like to send this status paper from the Danish Regions to the committee, but I think it has to be said that it is an ongoing dialogue with Danish regions in relation to also ensuring that the good experiences are spread elsewhere. I also think that today's declarations send out a clear signal that there is good reason for us to look together at the rules of eligibility and whether they are tight enough when we get the evaluation, also because there is a need for independent treatment and investigation of the individual patient. I also think it is important to stress that having free choice also includes knowing about it, and that is why the information effort is also important in ensuring that the opportunities available are used. We can see that there are different waiting times in the public domain, but also places where there is private capacity that we can make better use of. There is no doubt that we need to focus on this in order to ensure that people get into treatment so that you can resolve your hearing loss, and we also need to ensure that patients are aware of the opportunities they have. So thank you for the debate, and thank you for the commitment of the parties to jointly focus on a number of areas in the hearing area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135250	There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135254	Thanks for the speech. I should just like to ask, in relation to the very specific initiatives the Minister mentioned some of them in his rapporteur's speech: when have these initiatives been launched and when can we expect results from the initiatives that have been taken? I am also thinking of what the Minister said, I think it was in the Region of Zealand, in relation to the flexibility of the re-release of hearing aids. Can it now be expected that the other four regions will follow suit in relation to that practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135331	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135334	You can hope that they are inspired by each other. I suppose that is what we are calling on them to do with the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the parties of the Folketing. I would also like to inform them that when they see that they are significantly better at reducing waiting lists in some places than they are elsewhere, that they can see the whole issue of relaying, the whole use of communication centres elsewhere, and that the use of private actors in this area can help to remedy the waiting lists, I have a clear hope and expectation that the other regions will be inspired.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135404	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135406	Thank you. I expect the Minister, when the evaluation is available, to take the initiative to invite us all to discussions over in the Ministry of Health, and even now look at the letters or e-boxes you get as hearing impaired, to see if there is anything that can be changed in order to tell us what opportunities you have as a patient. So I would like to hear at the end of the debate on the Hability Regulation, which came into force, as the Minister also mentioned, in 2014: Does the Minister consider that it is currently working satisfactorily?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135443	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135446	In any case, I can see that I am getting a number of requests from organisations and from actors who do not think it is working satisfactorily, and also some concerns as to whether impartiality is sufficient and whether there can be a cap confusion if a Danish expression is to be used in this way on the whole question of viability. This also means that I am very much looking forward to the evaluation of the rules, because it will also be the basis for us to discuss what is in the proposal for adoption and in which areas and how we can tighten up these rules. What is my focus is on patients and to ensure that they receive proper and impartial and health-care treatment in this area. That's what they're entitled to, and that's what they need.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135524	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135527	Thank you. In many places myth formations occur, and you have to try to kill them while time is at hand. That is why I would like to ask the Minister something. The minister speaks today in an article in Altinget, and it is called Health Minister will clean up the hearing area. Here I come with a quote, and this is about the legislation we made back in 2012-2013, namely the legislative proposal called L 59. The minister says: "We're going to, and then it was the Left Party's opposition because we feared that it would lead to higher waiting lists. Unfortunately, this has proved to be correct, as an evaluation of the law earlier in the year also pointed out. It was today in Everything. The Minister wrote in a reply to a question from the Parliamentary Health Committee that was Question 985, and it was on 3 July, moreover, on my birthday and I quote: "At the same time, however, there has been an increase in the total number of people over 18 who have received treatment on the basis of hearing loss diagnosis during those years. It cannot therefore be clearly concluded that the increase in waiting time for public hearing aid treatment is a result of the amendment of the law on the basis of L 59.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135642	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135645	No, it cannot be clearly concluded, but I am still away from the clear view that it also plays a role. This is probably also part of the discussion which also led to the evaluation of the draft law. In other words, it is a few years since these decisions were taken. After all, it is no secret that the parties from the blue side of the Folketing did not support those changes, and I see no reason why we spend more time here and now. I have a focus on how we can improve things forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135718	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135721	Yes, but I just do not think it makes sense for the Minister to state it today in the Chamber, when, under the responsibility of the Minister, an answer has been given to the Parliamentary Committee on Health, which says that it cannot be clearly concluded. At least that is not what is apparent from everything today. There's another thing I'd like to arrest here in today's article from Everything. And that is why it says, and I quote: "My party, the other governing parties and the Danish People's Party...'. Then there's a longer sentence. Can I just get the Minister to correct that the Liberal Alliance voted for L 59 at the time that the bill was approved?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135802	Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135805	I think I should stick to speaking on behalf of my own party in relation to what we voted against. Now I have not seen the article in its entirety, but I stand by what I have also replied to the Danish Parliament, namely that nothing can be clearly concluded. I do not think that there is anything in it that has been read out here today that signals it. Everyone can go in and see that my party did not vote in favour of the bill at the time. There were various reasons for this. Among other things, there were: also concerns about waiting lists. There were also some other discussions that took place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135833	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135837	I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the government is planning to withdraw the subsidy again or whether, in the light of hindsight, it is really a good decision that has saved us a lot of money. Or how do you view it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135858	We in the government have undertaken a service review of the whole area of freedom of choice, and I do not want to conclude what can be the right solution for both ensuring shorter waiting lists and promoting free elections in this area. I can say that in January the government will be picking up on how to strengthen the free choice of citizens, and this also applies to hearing aids. I do not wish to anticipate what elements are included here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135924	We thank the Minister, there are no more brief comments. And to conclude the debate, it is now the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Karina Adsbøl, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215135943	Thank you. I would like to thank both the Minister and all the other rapporteurs who have been here today in the Chair for having been able to reach agreement on the text of the adoption. For what matters is that we can act across the parties here and that we can find good solutions for the benefit of the people who are concerned, namely those who have a disability in terms of their hearing. I have asked a number of questions during my speech, including in relation to education, whether the Minister had discussed this with his colleague, the Minister for Education and Research, and whether this is also an area we should look at. However, if nothing else, I expect the Minister, when the outcome of the evaluation comes, to call on us, who have taken part in today's debate, for discussions and also to take initiatives already in relation to capacity in the private sector. Can we already take some initiatives? Can we already start looking at the letters that land in e-Boks or elsewhere, in relation to information? For well enough, the Minister says that a number of initiatives have been taken in this area, but we just cannot see it on the waiting lists yet. And then I will look forward to the Minister sending over to us what the Minister promised Flemming Møller Mortensen. Then I just want to say thank you and wish you all a really good weekend and wish those who are going to Christmas lunch a really good Christmas lunch.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215140117	That was a good wish, thank you for that. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Tuesday 19 December 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20171215140136	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 19 December 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. And I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will also appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
