ParlaMint-DK_20171013100008	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Finn Sørensen (EL) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 18 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of a social protocol to the Treaty of Lisbon). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100033	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100102	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100114	Thank you, Madam President. I am very pleased that we are discussing this bill today, because it helps to provide an even better framework for our common primary school. We Social Democrats want a strong primary school, and we think it is absolutely crucial for our common welfare society that we must safeguard, but also develop that we ensure that it remains a school for all people, both those who need to immerse themselves and those who need to learn through more practical challenges. I'm proud of our primary school. We have a good school, but it can get even better. The draft law we are discussing today provides a more lenient framework for target management of learners' learning. Specifically, we are guiding the 3.170 skills and knowledge objectives rather than binding. The objectives of competence, i.e. the 215 objectives, and the 866 areas of competence and knowledge remain binding. This means that, unlike today alone, the number of binding targets is the goal of what the students should acquire at the end of certain classes, and therefore not all the time. Many people have asked for this, especially the teachers, but also the Socialists. The process of getting here has been very long. On the way, yes, the Minister has suggested that the binding targets we are now setting should be replaced by other binding targets set by the municipalities. Fortunately, we are all against this in the conciliation circle, because we should not replace a binding system with another binding system. Therefore, we also want it to be written into the law itself that municipal learning platforms should not be imposed on the individual teacher, which is happening today. In other words, we want a guarantee that there will be less bureaucracy. We would like teachers to have an even better tool so that they have the opportunity to focus on the objectives as a pedagogical tool and not as a steering device. When we loosen the bonds in the common goals, the schools and teachers will be given greater scope to organise the teaching, while maintaining the ambitions of what students should learn in primary school. For teachers, they are part of the lifeblood of primary school, they are committed, skilled and passionate about their subjects, and they are concerned about giving our children the best everyday life with learning. The simplification of the new common objectives is therefore also a good tool in day-to-day planning, implementation and evaluation of teaching. In short, we want to simplify and that is what we are doing. We want it to be written into the law itself and we want to ensure that the time of teachers and schools is spent on pupils and not on bureaucracy. We Social Democrats have an ambition that our children should become the best and the best generation ever. It starts with a good everyday life in our primary school, which is why we support the bill and look forward to further work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100401	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100414	Since the reform of primary schools was decided, the common objectives of the school subjects have been discussed and criticised. With this change of law today, we are defining once and for all what the original purpose of the new common goals has always been: to make them simple and useful so that they can be used to support the teacher in teaching. Unfortunately, it was regrettable that all targets were made binding in the law, which was interpreted very categorically in the municipalities. Suddenly, more than 3,000 binding goals were set for the teacher. And let me say quite clearly on behalf of the Danish People's Party: that has never been the intention. The aim was to write 1,700 pages of common goals down to a digital and clear version, where the objectives of competence and skills and knowledge should be guiding. The skills and knowledge objectives, on the other hand, were only explanatory texts and a boil-up of the more than 1,700 pages of text, which constituted the overall common target complex. It was never intended to make them binding. So with the new and modern common goals, we operate with three levels. First there are the objectives of competence, then the areas of competence and knowledge, and finally and at the bottom of the skills and knowledge objectives. It is the latter that has been made indicative, i.e. explanatory. Or said in a different way: The third level puts words and content on the top two levels, so the teacher knows what is meant by the two upper levels. And this third level should never have been made binding. It has taken almost three years and three ministers to change it. It is therefore a special pleasure for us in the Danish People's Party that we have finally succeeded in changing the law. It will delight a lot of teachers and make their everyday life easier. Our task in here is to support schools and teachers so that they go to work happily, and that will ultimately benefit the children as well. However, our task will be to keep an eye on the fact that the municipalities are complying with the legislative changes and are not beginning to invent new binding targets themselves. And there is reason for vigilance, because the KL has been critical of this particular part of the bill. In the Danish People's Party we continue to support targeted teaching, but it must be in a form that supports the teacher's freedom to organise his teaching. With the change of law, we are finally back to our original intention, and the Danish People's Party can therefore support the change of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100741	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next one is sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100748	Thank you. Today we first treat L 49 to reduce the number of binding targets for primary education. Why is it necessary to reduce the number of binding targets? Yes, that is because today we have a whole 3,385 binding targets for the teaching of the subjects and subjects of the primary school. It is incalculably many goals for both teachers, parents and students to relate to, and when the core tasks of the primary school are lost in a jumble of detailed goals, yes, we have got the focus too far away from what is important. What is important is not that teachers and educators in primary school spend a lot of time navigating around a large pile of goals, which are formulated from a central point of view. No, the important thing is that they can focus on their pupils' learning and well-being, and when this bill reduces the number of common goals in primary school, it is by no means about our ambitions for primary school having fallen. No, the overall goals of what students should learn are unchanged. What is changing is the freedom we give to organise teaching locally, and I think that is very important. For me, it has never been the intention to regulate schools in detail, so when we end up in a situation like this, where teachers feel that the common objectives are a limitation rather than a help and a guideline, then we must act. Then we must ensure that the mistakes are corrected and that the schools are given the right framework to work under. I believe that it is the teachers in the individual school who know what works best for their particular group of pupils. Children and young people are different. They have different strengths and weaknesses. They have different needs. That is why we should not make one recipe from Christiansborg, which prescribes how we should deal with all children in this country. There must be freedom for schools to do what they think is best from their knowledge of the pupils. Against this background, the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013100955	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013101004	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, we welcome the fact that a legislative proposal is now being put forward that limits the number of binding targets. It is a good thing that the massive criticism that has taken place has finally been heard from the implementation of the part of the reform of the primary school which deals with what, I think, has been somewhat comical about the simplified common objectives. It can actually be said that the wording of 3.385 binding targets was not a real simplification, and fortunately that is also the conclusion that has been drawn from the proposal before us. In the view of Enhedslisten, it has actually emerged from the day that several thousand objectives of knowledge and skill have been completely missed. It has been quite wrong to imagine that the state could lay down such a detailed regulation of the work on the content of the professions. It has been a totally excessive degree of control, and it has been unduly restrictive in relation to teachers' freedom and is, in fact, a contempt of their great knowledge, their experience and their professional judgment in organising teaching, as it is most appropriate for the pupils they now have before them. It is a good thing that the problem is being tackled. It is high time. And I have to say that it is basically fantastic and it is nice to hear the nice words today that we have had to wait so long before the public school circle finally responded, because the criticism has hacked down over the so-called simplified objectives and the whole learning goal management idea, actually since the reform of the primary school was adopted. And perhaps it would have been wise in this case to listen a little more closely to what the teachers and Danish Teachers' Association said. I think it is fair to say that the Minister for Education was one of the critical voices in his rapporteur's report on the management of the primary school set by the previous government, for which I should like to say a word of thanks. I would also like to thank those parties in the public school circle who are now insisting that the municipalities should not be allowed to restrict the increased freedom with locally established binding targets, which will, of course, almost obviously be identical to those that we are abolishing with the bill here. With the announcements from the National Association of Municipalities we have seen, there is no reason to doubt that many municipalities will try to continue the thousands of goals so that their expensively purchased learning platforms and the whole learning-target management idea that characterizes the individual school system can go on as if nothing had happened in this Chamber. That simply cannot be done. Unfortunately, I also find that the legislative proposal we are discussing here is not quite as clear and unambiguous as we would have liked on the part of the Enhedslisten. When the comments on the draft law state that the skills and knowledge objectives which are no longer binding will continue to be relevant to include in tests and tests, it must be said that this will then contribute to a lack of clarity as to what we are really doing away with. And it is clear that the teachers who are preoccupied with these tests, and this is natural when there are tests and tests that the students are doing well in those tests and tests, can be brought into a situation in which they are, to a considerable extent, skewing to these many goals when the objectives, although formally abolished, can nevertheless be the basis for tests and tests. It is therefore an obvious contradiction here. I think we should go further along this road. I think there is a need, one might say, for a battle with the whole idea of targeting the school. I think you should listen to the many, many teachers who say: We have an excellent purpose with our primary school. It is very well described in the primary school law's paragraph of purpose; it also spreads the school's purpose to everything that cannot be measured. So I would say that I think the draft law should be more clearly worded. Nevertheless, we hope that this will be a starting point for a further debate on how to achieve a real battle with the whole concept of targeting and testing. We would like to have the learning objectives and national tests completely out of primary school. However, having said that, despite the critical remarks, we in the Enhedslist believe that the proposal here is a clear step forward. We would like to thank you for that and we would like to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013101521	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013101529	Thank you. With the bill here, L 49, we are embarking on a much-needed decentralization of primary school. After all, there is a long and honorable tradition that our primary school is decentralized, and it has served well for long, long periods. But up through the zeros there was a general tendency in political Denmark to centralise, and this did not only affect primary school but also other things. This tendency towards centralisation has now been seen in the unfortunate aspects. In other areas we have started to talk about large-scale abusers, and I think that is a good word, but now we are also starting to decentralise in primary school. This must not lead to a new centralisation of the local authorities. For the decentralized is to be understood in such a way that school boards and school leaders, and in some situations also the individual teacher, can have some room and space to make independent, sensible decisions. So when we remove some centralisation from the centre here at Slotsholmen, it is not the intention that the municipal offices and the town halls should have a new centralisation. I hear people say that they are aware of that too, so that is something that we must keep an eye on, and I welcome that, of course. But I think we should also take advantage of the opportunity to philosophize where all this control really comes from. For L 49 is not the only legislative proposal in which I have noticed what is actually behind the desire to regulate everything, and that is a lack of confidence. After all, it is a lack of confidence in the school that has led the Danish Parliament to regulate so hard, and when you think that you can decentralise now, it is because you want to express a trust. And in a number of other contexts, and in many policy areas, I have noticed that this is what triggers excessive regulation. So we, as a Parliament, have some sort of task in improving the trust and trusting relationships one has to have with the municipalities. We and the municipalities need to improve the confidence they need for school leaders and individual teachers. Because only by putting in trust where there has been control in the past can we really move forward in the direction of decentralisation. This is not something you can write down in a single bill or something you can decide that you will now implement. Yet this is something that a group of interested politicians could say to themselves that they will be more aware of in the future. So, with these comments, I would like to give the draft law my best wishes on the way forward through the work of the committee and say that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013101903	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013101910	Happy children learn best, that's what we believe in in the alternative. We believe that this bill ultimately leads to some happier children who learn better, namely through some happier teachers who get a little more freedom, a little more air under their wings in order to prepare and organise a teaching that is more in line with their own professionalism and their own desires and not so much with some above-mentioned parameters. That is why, as others have said, we welcome this bill. We really would also like to credit the Minister for having made it as far as possible; I would like to comment on that afterwards that we are standing and removing so many of the binding learning objectives from the legislation. It has certainly not been an easy exercise since it has taken so long to get there. We are not part of the conciliation circle and therefore do not have eyes and ears on the discussions and debates that are going on in there, but from where we stand, we should at least be grateful to the Minister for being here today with this bill. It is no secret that in the alternative, the freedom of all our public servants is one of the hardest things we work for, and this will hopefully give our primary school teachers greater freedom. There are, of course, some elements that need to be taken into account, and there are, of course, a number of rapporteurs who have already mentioned this. One, as the Social Democrat rapporteur said, is how we can ensure that the municipalities do not just maintain these target management tools in the continuing work with the schools, so how we ensure that the schools and teachers are actually given the opportunity not to be committed to these learning objectives. I'm having a little bit of trouble seeing that. The Social Democratic rapporteur said that the Social Democrats would like to see the legislation introduced, that municipal learning platforms should not be imposed on the individual teacher. We strongly support this in the alternative. So if this is something that the Social Democrats can achieve or work to achieve, then at least the Social Democrats can count on the support of the alternative, because that is one of our main concerns. This is a fine step, but in the end the final step is probably that it is the individual teacher who can decide whether he or she will or will not make use of these learning objectives. So this is a point of attention which we will now pursue in the work of the committee. The second is, of course, what Enhedslisten's rapporteur said: why is it that it is maintained that these learning objectives are part of those tests, among others. the national tests that are in primary school? The perfectly logical conclusion of guiding the binding learning objectives here would be to make the national tests indicative or voluntary. It's gotta be what's in this job somewhere. I guess you can't have national tests that are tied up with some learning goals that are voluntary, because everything else equals, when the teacher prepares the students for the national tests, the individual teacher will look at these voluntary learning goals, which then somehow become somewhat binding anyway. This is clearly a focus on which we think we should continue to work now. We need to look at it in committee work, but in the alternative we are clearly of the opinion that it must be a necessary conclusion and consequence of making these learning objectives voluntary that the national tests are also made voluntary. It's all about • several of us were in Finland recently to look and let us be inspired by Finland, in terms of how they ensure freedom for their teachers in schools. Let us have an overall framework for what teachers have to meet in terms of professional requirements for pupils in relation to the purpose descriptions contained in the subjects. But let us give them so much air under their wings that they themselves can be allowed to carry out the teaching on the basis of some general framework rather than the still too narrow management that we think we have in the Danish schools. So there are some criticisms, some attention points, but it is clear that the alternative generally supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013102331	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013102342	Thank you. Yes, it is a day of celebration today with the first reading of L 49, where, in broad agreement in the Folketing, we significantly reduce the number of binding targets. Now there are 215 objectives of competence to be attained during the 10 years of school leaving, and there are over 800 areas of knowledge and skills on which education must be based. It's been a long process. I became rapporteur again in this area in June 2015 at the time of the accession of the new government, which is why I have worked with the then Minister for Education Ellen Trane Nørby and the conciliation circle and later with the current Minister for Education to reduce the very large number of targets that have been made binding. This is clearly an objective, and I am now quoting from the comments to the bill, page 4: • By reducing the number of binding targets and, as a result, the increased freedom to organise the content of the teaching, it allows teachers to focus more on work on the content of the subjects and the mandatory subjects. So that's what's meant to be. Then it says, and I continue to quote: "That requires the municipalities to be prepared to give schools and teachers the opportunity to make use of the freedom that is the intention of the bill, namely to give teachers the freedom to use their pedagogical skills in the best possible way, and not to impose unnecessary documentation requirements on schools and teachers, which take time from the professional work with the pupils. That's the whole point. And with the doubts I can see in some of the rapporteurs' speeches here as to whether the municipalities will now live up to what is the intention and purpose of the amendment of the law, it might be that we should consider how to clarify this here by means of an amendment to the legislation. I would also ask the Minister to be sensitive to this, because we share the intention which I have just set out from the remarks. It is also important for me to stress that when we talk about the professionalism of the teacher and the professionalism of the teacher and being in a primary school, the most alienating thing that has happened in the over 200-year history of the primary school is that in these years of digital opportunities, etc. etc. introduce binding targets to the extent that and thus limit the possibility that the teacher can actually be a teacher, i.e. because the teacher instead becomes a consultant. Therefore, it is important that we know that the meaning of the primary school is actually in § 1 and if you are going to boil it down to something that everyone can join, then the students are supposed to learn, among other things, what it means to live in a society of freedom and folk rule. And that is not taught by binding targets, which must be monitored in one way or another, as has been the case up to now. The second important thing, which is to say to this context, and which I would like to stress very strongly, is that there is also a section 2 paragraph. 2, in the School Act, which deals with the responsibility of the head of each school for the quality of teaching, according to section 1, which thus concerns the purpose of the primary school and to determine the organisation and organisation of the teaching at each school. It is therefore not the responsibility of the administration to go in and interfere in the everyday life of the individual school; it is actually the head of the school, and that is why we have employed a head of the school, and therefore my party believes that there should be a head of the school at any school, not a head of the area, but a head of the school. But this is another discussion that we will take up another time. It is important to know that teachers can make lots of plans for their teaching, which they do, but when they come into Danish teaching in 4.d, a lot of things have suddenly happened in there, which means that the professionalism of the teacher must be expressed by finding the most appropriate thing to do, because the teacher knows what the meaning is, both with the teaching to be done in that hour and with the school at all. Therefore, it is the teacher's professional work that enables the teacher to find the most appropriate way to get back together on 4.d and get them to start the teaching they were supposed to have. And it is not just something you do; it is something you learn and gain experience in which learns for many years in a primary school. It is a respect for the work and freedom that teachers must have in order to be teachers who are also behind the changes that are in the legislative proposal that we have on the table today. I therefore hope that the municipalities will succeed in understanding what the purpose of the school is and that they will refrain from interfering in what is happening in the school's cadastre.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013102834	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013102842	Thank you. Today is a lovely day, and it's not just because it's Friday and Friday is usually a nice day. It is simply a nice day, because we are dealing first with some really important proposals. Only now, when we are freed from primary school, and in a moment, when we are also helping the post-schools. It's gonna be a really nice day when you spend your time like that. But this day has also been a long time along the way. The debate on target management has, of course, been going on since the reform of the primary school. After all, it is more than a year and a half since now that an agreed conciliation group said: now we are going to do away with these thousands of binding targets. It was under the former Minister of Education, and then we pressed and pressed, and now we succeed. It is wonderful, and I think that shows that it works when a whole conciliation group is unanimously pushing for fundamental change in something in primary school. Why is there a need to change this with goal management? What is goal management at all? Why do so many people talk about it? You have to think of target management as such, a hand that goes directly into the primary school and dictates how the primary school should function • thousands of goals, which have now been helping to determine how teachers should behave and organise their teaching inside the classroom for several years. And why is it so wrong? Well, first of all, targeting helps change focus from teaching to learning, and I like teaching better than I like learning. Learning is when some decide that this is exactly what students have to learn, and then they have to be tested in it at the end, and if they can do exactly what some politicians have decided they have to learn, it is really good. Teaching is when a skilled teacher who has attended the seminary or a professional education meets a student and then in teaching it happens magically when a skilled person meets a student with a zeal and a desire to learn. There must be more education and less learning. Then there is also the risk, when you put thousands of goals into primary school, that you can only focus on those goals. But there are some things you can't measure. You can't measure on education, you can't measure on the view of democracy, you can't measure on what the student gets with his peers, you can't measure on how it's practical, you can't measure on the development processes that happen in the student, both at school, but also sometimes after school, when the student goes home and thinks about things. And with this goal management, there's a risk that some of the very valuable things you can't measure will become less important and some of the things that may not be as important but that you can measure will become more important and more important. And that's bad. Then goal management is also a decisive break with the freedom of method that teachers have enjoyed throughout the time I remember, i.e. that as a teacher you take an education and are passionate about children, and that when you get into the classroom you also know how to take care of these children and make sure that they get a good education. And of course you can guide the teachers and inspire them to how they could do it, but in the end it is the teacher, together with the headmaster, who decides how this should actually be organised. So when we come here and say that this method is the one everyone needs, it's basically a violation of the freedom of method, and it's good that we walk away from it. But that doesn't mean that we should be careful not to fall into the trap of saying that now no teacher can use learning-oriented teaching, because those teachers who then think it is the right method should be allowed to do so. It's part of giving method freedom. So please let the many teachers who think this is the best way to teach students continue, but the many teachers who don't think it's a good idea and those there are many of them now getting more freedom, and that's good. Finally, I would like to say that the objectives have been very bureaucratic. Imagine I have received emails from teachers who teach refugee children, and they should sit and fill goals on learning portals, post up and post down, to parents who do not understand what is on the learning portals. And you can't walk away from it, because it was kind of just the decision that now had to be taken, and they had to be filled in on these learning platforms. It leads to what we need with this. Target management is caused or at least strengthened by this requirement that all municipalities should use learning platforms, where teachers should sit and describe the individual goals, and how they meet them. We're not gonna end them today, we're not gonna let them go today. There's still a demand for those learning platforms. And it may well be that it is now coming out to the municipalities, but if municipal politicians are still saying that teachers need to use those learning platforms, then there will still be target management. And therefore, the next step is to have a final showdown with the compulsion to use the learning platforms, which also ultimately cause a large part of the goal management that is in the Danish primary school. But we will achieve that, because there is a very good dialogue; there is a good discussion about what the primary school should be able to do. And I'm sure we're gonna get to the next step and get to the end of this goal management race. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013103354	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last rapporteur is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013103403	Thank you. Good governance requires that we find the right balance between managing the primary school so that we ensure that the children learn something and the freedom of teachers to plan their work, so that we get the teachers' pedagogical skills in play. With the bill here, we are adjusting a little on that balance so that teachers now get a little more freedom. The teachers are happy with this proposal, and I am delighted because it means that they understand that we are giving them a little more freedom to plan teaching within a framework. I hope that teachers will now take on that trust and live up to it. However, simplification does not mean that we let go of the reins. We have a responsibility to ensure that children in primary school are better qualified. Therefore, it is also crucial for us that we do not change the 215 overall competence objectives and the underlying 866 skills and knowledge areas. They are essential for us to be able to manage primary school, and therefore they must continue to be binding. Fewer binding targets will hopefully provide greater transparency in our management of the primary school. It is important that the 3.170 skills and knowledge objectives which are now indicative are not modified or removed, but become indicative. We can send a signal that we expect the children to learn a lot while they go to primary school. It is absolutely crucial for us that we maintain the Danish literary cannon and our history cannon. They must continue to be included in the education, because the general education and a common Danish reference framework must continue to be part of the primary school. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill's further examination.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013103557	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013103608	Thank you. It is with great pleasure that we are dealing today with L 49, and I would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to the conciliation circle for the thorough work we have done together in achieving the objective of simplifying the common objectives. And then I would like to congratulate the primary school because this bill gives you a better framework for living education right out in the classroom. The intention to change the objectives of the reform of primary schools was precisely a simplification, but what was achieved was too violent and also too rigid. We have recognised this in the conciliation circle, and we have acted on it, so that instead of many thousands of objectives we now have a general framework, overall objectives of competence, together with areas of skill and knowledge which must guide the teachers in their work, but which must not be allowed to stand up to the good and vivid teaching. We agree with the conciliation circle that freedom must go right into the classroom. This means that there should be no statutory requirement for learning target management in classrooms. In concrete terms, this means that when you work with teaching, you have to be able to look at the children who are there, what they need and the skills you want to give them; and that all the other things that lie in the reform of the primary school need to have a better framework for success. Today it is the school's exercise day, a lot of happy children are moving and running out in the country. Next week they have autumn holidays, but when they start again, they get into a school that also has to be open to society. It must be an open school where the teacher can make an appointment with a municipal nature counselor to take the kids to the woods. And if you have had a process of breaking down materials, ecosystems, weather or photosynthesis, then you can go out and be with someone who knows even more about that area and thus open the school to the world. There must be a good framework to succeed with all that. All the good intentions that lie in the reform of primary schools and the tools that need to be around them must be balanced in relation to it. There are some learning platforms that you are implementing, they must support the work, they must not be too rigid, and if they are, we must look at them again. We should not unduly bind the work of the schools, the teachers in here from Christiansborg, nor should the municipalities. Where the dialogue is good, when I come around the country, between schools and municipalities, well there is support for the work of the heads of schools in achieving their objectives, the objectives that we have adopted, that children should become skilled, regardless of which home they come from; that they should thrive; and that the tools provided by the reform should come into play. So again: Thanks to all parties in the conciliation circle for a good and thorough work that will now have effect in classrooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104004	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104010	Thank you. If we now simplify these objectives to be indicative rather than binding, we are actually talking about this in the Social Democratic Party. And I said in my rapporteur's speech that I am concerned that it will not be this educational tool that we want it to be, but that it will just continue to be binding. Therefore, I would like a guarantee from the Minister that it will actually be directly included in the law that the 3.170 now indicative targets should be indicative and not something that can be imposed on the individual teacher.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104050	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104052	Well, it is a very good day when other parties ask a liberal minister to be absolutely sure that a de-bureaucratisation initiative is now also a de-bureaucratisation initiative. So I would like to credit the parties for that. I would also like to thank you for your cooperation on this. I have no doubt that the Social Democrats are also genuinely concerned that this bill should come out and work. So what the bill says is actually what matters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104127	Here you go, Mrs. Annette Lind.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104129	It's just that we've had a lot of talking in the conciliation circle, and we can't really get that 100% guarantee. And that worries me a little bit. It is the case that educational curricula have been drawn up in the institutional field, and there it has been written into the law that that is what applies and that nothing can be beyond that. That's just what I'd like to put in the bill, so that you can't continue with these controls, just like in Køge, and tell the teachers to use them. Will the Minister help to include this more clearly in the bill? We can also take the proposal from the Radicals to make a supplement to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104213	Well, if there are any amendments to the bill, of course I would like to look at them. I must, of course, have the opportunity to read them. It is clear and relate to them. When we make a bill of amendment like this, which gives more freedom out there, it also gives more responsibility. There is no doubt about that. After all, responsibility must also be lifted out at the individual school. And I would very much like to see amendments, but it is precisely with confidence that this is also linked to responsibility.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104242	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104246	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. It is true that trust and responsibility are linked, but sometimes there can be structures that make people unable to live up to their trust. I am a little afraid that there are some municipalities that are currently unable to live up to my trust in this issue of setting them more free in terms of target management. After all, the municipalities have committed themselves to these learning platforms, as the Minister mentioned, and I just know that logic is such out there that when you spend a lot of money on a learning platform and you spend many years talking up a concept of goal management, it can be very difficult for your pride to walk away from it again because you've stood and spoken for it for so long. That is why I fear a little that if we do not make some amendment, if we do not give a clear signal that this cannot be done, then the municipalities will continue to use this target management regime. So, first of all, I just want to know whether the Minister could be prepared to look at these amendments which could tighten up the possibility for municipalities to continue to avail themselves of this regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104342	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104344	Thank you. I would very much like to credit the SF for the fact that this subject has been so systematically pursued. Because it is in this way that changes actually come out into the classrooms. Sometimes we stand in here and adopt something and smile and nod at each other, and then it has no effect out there where we want it. And we have a common interest here in terms of freedom reaching the entire classroom. So I would like to look at amendments and I would also like to look at learning platforms and practices and discuss them in the conciliation circle. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104422	Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104424	Thank you. I'm glad the Minister says that. When I ask, it is mostly for people in the outside world to hear that there is actually such a unified attitude across the parties that you want to look further at this. I would also like the Minister to confirm or say something about whether the Minister could be prepared to look at whether to make the rules for the learning platforms more relaxed, because today there is a demand for everyone to have it. We are now relaxing the rules on common objectives, could we not also relax the rules on the requirements for learning platforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104456	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104500	Today, the demands are actually quite lenient. They're all about getting a learning platform. What can then be worked on when the learning platforms are drawn up in relation to a previous legislation is whether they should then be changed now that we are changing the legislation. And we have to look at that in the conciliation circle if that is the case. Of course, the tools there are must reflect the legislation there is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104523	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104525	Thank you. I have just one question in relation to some of what I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, namely the dilemma of maintaining national tests as mandatory when the learning objectives laid down in the tests, on which the tests are based, have now become indicative. So does the Minister intend or plan to make the national tests also indicative or voluntary?
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104558	No, I have no intention of doing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104600	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104606	That was a short and good answer, and we like that. But can the Minister then understand the problem of having some learning objectives which are indicative but which are used in national tests? And can the Minister understand that there may be a concern that teachers will therefore be using these now guiding learning objectives in the teaching, in terms of wanting to prepare their students to complete these national tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104623	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104626	I have not been involved at the time when it was decided to have national tests or when it was decided to make all the learning objectives binding. There is a legal instrument, you might say, and some decisions that we are on today. What's important to me is that teaching is alive all the way out in the classroom. At the same time, there are also some tests and some exams which have been consistent with the work that has been carried out in addition. But it is not the case, when you do future tests, exams or tests, that they must then necessarily reflect the goals one to one. There you can well imagine that there is a development over time, where you will take some inspiration from one place and some inspiration from other places. You can imagine that. But now that we're making this change of law, it's clear that it doesn't change those conditions right away.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104719	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104720	Thank you. I would also very much like to acknowledge once again the Minister's commitment to this process and to the matter as such, but I would just like to point out the choice of words in the comments which I have unfortunately noticed too late to have had an impact on the fact that it might be possible to change it, namely that the greater freedom that teachers are supposed to gain from reducing the number of binding targets requires the municipalities to be prepared to do so. These are, in fact, both the words that it requires and that the municipalities are prepared to do what, like appealing to the municipalities to understand what this is really about. Therefore, I would like to take the Minister so much at his word that I would like to say that it also obliges the Minister and that if the municipalities do not see the advantage of giving the teachers the freedom that the bill is supposed to give them, then we will have to act in relation to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104821	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104822	I predict that we will be following this area together, because we have a common interest in ensuring that the legislative proposal we are adopting will also have the meaning we want. So I imagine we're going to follow this area and discuss it in the conciliation circle. For it is clear that the legislative proposal we are adopting here must also have the effect we want, right out in schools and right out in classrooms.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104847	Mrs. Marianne Jelved.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104848	Thank you. I am very pleased to hear that, and I did not expect any other answer either. But now it is important that this has been said in this Chamber. The next thing I would like to appeal to is that section 2 (2) of this report is concerned with the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women as regards equal treatment for men and women. 2 of the Law on the Folkeskole where it is It is said around the municipalities, at least in some places, that the manager is more in the administration than in the schools, and that is a pity. Because that's not the point of running a school. So I also hope that the Minister will have his eyes open to that issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104933	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013104934	I have decided, and as I said in my speech: when I am around the country, the places where you can see that things work best are the places where, in the administration, they also see themselves as a service body for the heads of schools, so that they ask them: what can we do for you? What are your challenges? What do you think is hard? What are you guys gonna do? How can we help to spread knowledge among the schools that are in the municipality? How can we help you solve your problems? That's where you see a thriving school culture many times.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105013	Then it's mr. Jakob Sølvhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105020	I would like to follow up on what Mrs Magdalene Maier mentioned in her question. Doesn't the Minister think there's a contradiction in this whole structure when it says in the notes on the law: The skills and knowledge objectives express key skills and knowledge in the individual subjects, why it will also be relevant to include them in tests and tests in the future? Can the Minister not understand that a teacher may be in doubt as to whether the guiding skills and knowledge objectives are now indicative or whether they are really so binding that one has to have gone through them to prepare the students for tests and tests?
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105100	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105101	They are. But if we imagine that we should do a test or a test, would we not at all look at any of the guiding targets that lay and would we ignore them altogether? It's hard to imagine, too. So the skilled professional who has to prepare a test or test will look at the material that is at all, including, of course, also indicative targets. But I imagine this will be something that is developing. We have made a choice, we have made new legislation and there will be a development in this area, which means that you will also look at other elements of teaching.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105144	Sir. Jakob Sølvhøj Mound.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105146	So we can safely say to the teachers who are asking us whether there is a hidden obligation, nevertheless, to work with all the objectives that are now skill and knowledge objectives and which have become indicative: no, there is no obligation to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105205	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105205-2	Never rest safely when it comes to primary school. I also have the expectation that Mr. Jakob Sølvhøj never does, and I am delighted, because in the Enhedslisten too, we work systematically to see how the teaching works out in the classrooms. So I and the government will only be pleased if the conciliation circle and also other parties will help keep talking to teachers and school leaders about how this works in practice. Because, as the SF rapporteur also said, there are some teachers who actually want to work systematically with learning objectives management, and they must be allowed to do so. However, out in schools where it has been seen as too tight, we are now getting a concrete boost.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105253	Thank you. And now no one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105307	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105329	Thank you. Yeah, it's a lovely day, like SF's Jacob Mark said. Now we are making it easier for the post-schools and the free vocational schools. I have to say that the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal, which provides for a simplification of the rules for post-schools and free vocational schools, so that the legislation for the schools in question becomes more contemporary and gives them more flexibility. We note with satisfaction the positive statements that have been made in the context of the consultations and thank the organisations concerned for their feedback and good work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105358	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105411	The draft law, which we are discussing here, provides a freer framework for the post-schools and escapes in some areas with what has previously been allowed to the high schools. The changes are made on request from the Afterschool Association to the Ministry. In the Danish People's Party, we can then support the legislative changes which will give the post-schools more freedoms and make it easier for the post-schools to become a stronger factor outside the large cities, where many of them are located. The amendments to the law contain the following points: the buildings will be within walking distance of each other with the amendment of the law. The school can rent a building for 10 years, then it must be transferred to its own right, and it must be protected against abuse, so that there is no group formation such as this. The thunder empire, or that the school is not independent of the owner. Schools are also given the opportunity to own a smaller part of their teaching facilities along with others. Schools can also perform tasks to a limited extent for other afterschools, free vocational schools and colleges by written agreement, e.g.: are administrative tasks for other schools covered by this law, and a school combined with a folk high school can carry out administrative tasks for another folk high school. And finally, a post-school must be able to use the school's own resources to a limited extent for public education activities. We in the Danish People's Party would really like to praise the Minister for Education for a very good and constructive collaboration for the benefit of both the post-schools and Denmark, so in the Danish People's Party we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105620	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Hans Andersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105627	Thank you. Today we have this draft law, L 50, which aims to create a better framework for our post-schools and free vocational schools. It does so in three ways. Firstly, the draft law gives more freedom to our post-schools and free vocational schools. This gives them the freedom to make decisions on how, for example, to make decisions themselves. shall manage their buildings and installations or how to carry out their tasks. In the Left, we basically believe that decisions must be taken close to the citizens. We believe that Danish schools know their own strengths and weaknesses better than we do here at Christiansborg, and thus they are also better able to make local decisions. Secondly, the draft law provides schools with a simpler framework, because instead of presenting schools with a long list of rules and conditions, we are reducing the amount of pointless demands here. Thirdly, the draft law provides schools with a more up-to-date framework to work under. The new rules must give schools more flexibility in their planning and thus make them better able to meet the challenges they must face. Because the demands of the Danes on our schools change, and if the schools are to keep up with them, they should not be slowed down by untimely rigid rules. Against this background, the Left would recommend voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105750	Thank you. The next one is sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013105758	The proposal here meets a great demand from many of the country's post-schools and free vocational schools. There is a relaxation of a number of provisions in the legislation which today constitute a barrier to the development of existing schools and the establishment of new schools. In the Enhedslisten, we think it is important that we have a framework for running afterschools and free vocational schools, which safeguard the special qualities of schools, which ensure that schools first and foremost focus on the core tasks they have and which ensure that we continue to have a protection against corporate formations in this area. This seems to us to be the case with existing legislation, and we think that will continue to be the case if the Danish Parliament adopts the government's proposal to relax the rules on subsidies. We therefore agree that it would be sensible to respond to the wishes of the schools to make this less relaxing requirement, both in relation to the location of the school buildings and in relation to the ownership of the buildings, so that when schools consider that it can pave the way for the establishment of better educational facilities for pupils, then the legislation does not stand in the way of this. We also think it is good if the post-schools can use their own resources to a limited extent for public education, and we think that it is reasonable to envisage possible cooperation between schools in the administrative field, so as to spend the least possible money on administration and as much as possible on school education and other activities. With the proposal here, we can of course see that the request made by the Afterschool Association to the parties here one and a half years ago has been listened to. When you go through the bill, you can almost recognize from word to word some of the wordings that the Afterschool Association had formulated. It's really good. On the other hand, I think it is a pity that we have not listened quite well enough to the wishes of the post-schools and also looked at how to improve the additional rates given for Danish teaching for bilingual pupils. The post-school association has proposed a few improvements to the rules in general, and in addition they have proposed that they also apply to bilingual pupils who have a temporary residence permit in Denmark. After-schools and the free vocational schools have a form in which the pupils are together 24 hours a day. After all, it offers a very special opportunity for a good integration effort, that you spend 24 hours a day together: that you are together both in teaching and in leisure time; that is how you are together, from getting up in the morning, until you turn off the light in the evening. With the focus on the whole immigration policy, the refugee policy and the integration issue, I simply do not understand why we do not accept the support that it is from the post-schools, because it is a new task that they have to carry out, in addition to the other important tasks they have. I really do not understand when the post-schools reach out and say that they want to contribute to the important task of integration, that the government does not stretch out and thus get an agreement that gives the post-schools a much better starting point for working on integration. So I would like to call on the government to reconsider its position on this matter. I know this has been discussed. I have participated in meetings with the Minister and the rapporteurs of the other parties on this matter. I think it is really a pity that some people have had an opportunity to veto this, that we went further with this. With the somewhat bumpy remarks on that part of it, I have to say that I think that what lies is a sensible proposal and the Enhedslisten can back it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110216	Thank you. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110226	Thank you. As Mr. Jacob Mark also mentioned during the discussion of Bill No. L 49, Bill L 50 is also an expression of what trust can accomplish. This shows that we in the Folketing have confidence in the post-schools and the free vocational schools, and it is a very good move that things are going on. They will have better and more flexible opportunities to unfold, and in this way there will be a debureaucratisation, one might almost say. There will certainly be more freedom in this area, and we very, very much welcome that. What you might have to notice here is that both with this and the previous bill, the Folketing is taking on a real responsibility so that more freedom and less bureaucracy can be found in the institutions. I think that is very good, and we could do so in many, many other areas. But every journey must start with the first step, so that is something we very much welcome. So we strongly support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110350	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110357	Thank you. Well, I'll be brief. The alternative supports the draft law, with the same justification as the other rapporteurs who have been up here so far, namely that some relaxation of the rules is being made here and that the draft law provides a more flexible framework for the post-schools. So thank you for that. On a par with Mr. Nor do we understand in the alternative that some elements have been taken out of the bill, as the Afterschool Association rightly points out in the letter they have sent to all the rapporteurs. This concerns, among other things: I should like to ask the Commission whether it is possible to grant a supplementary tariff for Danish teaching for bilinguals when you have a temporary residence permit, and also whether this additional tariff can be triggered, even if the period is less than 12 weeks old; these are quite specific elements. These are some very good suggestions which the Afterschool Association as experts in their field and with the way they work with, among other things. integration on, the best of all knows how to work in practice. So we are going to table some amendments to this bill. I hope that several of the other parties will be interested in joining them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110510	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110519	I shall also sign for a good bill, L 50, which actually implements the relaxations that the previous government had adopted in the Folketing on the higher degrees of freedom of the folk high schools for the establishment of new high schools and greater freedom of involvement in the local folk-enlightening work. Even then, I actually called on the then Minister of Education to carry out the same thing for the post-schools of free schools, but that is now happening, and I am very happy to support that on behalf of the Radical Left. I just want to limit it to one question for the Minister. It is the case that there has been a legislative proposal for consultation, I understand. It's normal practice. And after the hearing, there has been the change that parts of the proposal have been withdrawn from the law. This is the proposal that the proportion of pupils who can trigger the additional tariff given to schools with children with a different ethnic background and thus linguistic challenges should be increased from the current 8%. of a school's pupils to 10%. This corresponds to the average in the proportion of refugees and immigrants in primary school. The additional tariff for school stays for refugees and immigrants who last less than 12 weeks has also been abolished. Both are unfortunate because the young people we are talking about here are some who, at least for a period of time, are in Denmark • we cannot know how long, nobody knows but nevertheless it will be helpful. For the integration of them and their ability to assert themselves in a sensible way in Danish society are, of course, limited if, in this situation, free schools are not able to contribute to the linguistic development which is a prerequisite for good integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110712	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013110720	Thank you. The other day I talked to a student who asked me if there were really any reforms that were good, because he had never seen a reform bring anything good. I do not really know how big a political proposal or how big a legislative proposal should be before you can call it a reform, but at least you could call these two legislative proposals we are making today mini-reform. And then it can be said that with the things that we are adopting today in the form of proposals that are supported unconditionally and broadly, there is in fact something that will make life better for many post-schools and free vocational schools. It started more than 11⁄2 years ago when we got the call from the post-schools, who wanted it here, and where we traveled it for the first time as something we would really like to be implemented, because we thought it sounded like good ideas. But it actually started back under former Minister Marianne Jelved, who made these rules for the high schools. So thank you for the effort that, of course, left some traces for the future. There's been a lot of talk about what this means. This means easier administration for the post-schools and free vocational schools, less strict rules, in relation to how to use the buildings, and that you can rent the building you want to build a post-school in the first few years. This will make it easier to run afterschools, and it will also make it easier to set up afterschools. And it's nice, because afterschools are a fantastic Danish tradition, which does fantastic very good for many children and young people. The same applies to free vocational schools. The free vocational schools have had a difficult time since they made huge savings in this area. So all we can do to strengthen both the free vocational schools and the post-schools are simply good proposals. However, I have also said, and it has been mentioned several times, that when the Minister presented this freedom package, as it was called, to the post-schools, the suggestion was also made that a supplementary tariff for bilinguals who had a temporary stay could be obtained as a secondary school. In practice, this would mean that more refugees could have been taken to post-school school. In fact, the Minister said this several times • I even have a cut from TV 2 Nord, where the Minister says that no matter what the government will vote for this. It is not part of the package ^ as the only one of what the Minister and the government proposed at that time. I put forward the proposal in the last session, when the government would not vote for it, and I think it is a pity, because it is a wish which the post-schools themselves have: to be able to help more bilingual people. It is a wish which I think we should share broadly, that is to say, to have more young bilingual in post-schools so that they can have a network and learn the Danish language. And then I think it's a little too bad that when you go out and say something and say something, it doesn't happen. So I fully agree that we will be tabling an amendment to this bill, for which those parties that still think it is a good idea can vote. And I hope that some parties will. Otherwise, however, it is a very fine proposal, which, of course, we are voting in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111038	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111049	Thank you. At their best, Danish afterschools are a very good offer for young people in Denmark. There is nothing better than meeting a post-school student who is at home for a short time at the family's home this weekend. The enthusiasm is always noticeable when they tell about their afterschool and why the very postschool and the very friends are the best thing that has ever happened. There is no doubt that most people remember their post-school stays for the rest of their lives. Therefore, it is also important to provide afterschools and free vocational schools with the best opportunities to make exciting offers. With the bill here, we simplify and relax the rules for post-schools and free vocational schools and provide schools with a freer and more up-to-date framework. After-schools and free vocational schools must have the flexibility to develop and modernise, and in this way we will give good post-schools the opportunity to become even better. With this bill, we provide schools with flexible opportunities to finance new schools, expand and modernise. We give them the opportunity to own a sports hall or a football field with other schools, and we give schools the opportunity to rent buildings for up to 10 years. It is a flexibility that can benefit schools, and we cannot object to that on the part of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111222	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111232	I would like to start by thanking the parties supporting this bill, this freedom package, which will make it easier for post-schools and free vocational schools to do the work they are doing well. With the bill, the post-schools and free vocational schools will be given a more modern framework for running schools, and this will benefit the pupils, because the bill will allow schools to run an exciting school with opportunities for professional and personal development for the pupils. A stay at a post-school or free school is for most people an experience for life. This may be exactly what lifts a young person out of loneliness, strengthens professional knowledge or gives confidence and courage to the future. Post-schools and free vocational schools strengthen the personal maturity, independence and education of very many young people throughout Denmark. But of course it requires that schools have sufficient freedom to run a well-functioning school. However, some of the legal framework has proved to be outdated and has stood in the way of the continuing development of post-school and free vocational schools. I have listened to the wishes of school associations for a more flexible framework for post-schools and free vocational schools, so that schools can continue to be an attractive choice for young people. Overall, the draft law deals with the buildings and areas of the schools and the possibility of carrying out tasks beyond school and educational activities. The buildings and areas of a school will in future be located mainly in the geographical vicinity of each other. Continuing schools and free vocational schools are thus given geographical and structural requirements which are broadly parallel to those of the free primary schools. The draft law also provides for more flexible means of financing the creation of new schools or the natural expansion and modernisation of existing schools. Schools will be able to rent buildings and land for up to 10 years in certain situations. It is an advantage if the school is to replace existing buildings and land, or if it is to expand the school or create a completely new school. The draft law also establishes the legal basis for post-schools and free vocational schools to own, for example. a sports hall or a ball track with others. This will provide better opportunities to offer students good and up-to-date facilities. In addition, the draft law allows post-schools and free vocational schools to optimise and streamline their administration. Schools are given the opportunity to carry out administrative tasks for other secondary schools and free vocational schools. At the same time, schools combined with a folk high school have a similar opportunity and an opportunity to carry out administrative tasks for a folk high school. Finally, the draft law also opens up the possibility for afterschools to strengthen the school's anchoring in the community by using the school's own resources to a limited extent for public education in Denmark. Thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111526	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111534	Thank you for that and thank the Minister for taking the initiative on this. I think the post-schools call it a liberalisation of the rules, so it must be in the spirit of the Minister, but in this case it is also in my spirit. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, it was part of the government's freedom package to include an additional tariff for bilinguals who had a temporary stay. In practice, this would have meant that more refugees could go to post-school, and this is something that the After-school Association thinks is a very good idea, so I was actually quite sure that we could adopt it in good order in this Parliament. What has caused the government to change its attitude on this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111614	Well, I note with respect to the two legislative proposals we are discussing today that the SF and the Radicals in particular support with great commitment. It is so beautiful in politics that sometimes cooperation and interests cross the hall, and that is exactly what it should be. In relation to the overall package that we are going to deal with here, it is also about the fact that there is a wide range of parties in the Folketing and that we would like to have broad cooperation on this freedom package as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111643	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111647	However, as I understand it, there is a fairly broad majority in favour of this supplementary tariff being granted to bilinguals if the government continues to think it is a good idea. I have heard both the Social Democrats, Radicals, SF, Enhedslisten and the Alternative say that they think it is a very good idea, and the government is made up of three parties. I would, of course, like all parties to be involved, but it must also be said that this is a fairly broad majority. So when it's not in anyway, is it because the government no longer thinks it's a good idea to do this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111719	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111722	One can answer it this way: Some of the things that are no longer included can be viewed both from the point of view of a school and from the point of view of the student. But you can also look at it as part of something bigger, namely that Denmark is a tiny country, which is very attractive for many people to come to. Denmark must not become a dependent country that attracts too many people because we are simply so attractive and have too many benefits for people who come here. That's a very, very small area, but you can also look at it from that angle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111754	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. There are no more brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171013111809	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 24 October 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
