ParlaMint-DK_20171003120002	The meeting is open. Your Majesty and Royal Highnesses. Freedom and popular rule are not a matter of course. We see that everywhere in the world. That is why it is a day of celebration when today, on the first Tuesday of October, for the 169th time, we are opening the Folketing. "On the ground of the law, freedom must be built," said former Speaker of Parliament Christen Berg. We can fight about this or that, but we agree on one thing: the Constitution stands firm! Every government must seek its strength in a trust union with the Folketing. ▪ This has been the case for 116 years since the System changed 64 years under the current Constitution. It follows from the Constitution that, as the so-called 'age' chairman, i.e. Not the oldest, but the longest-standing Member, will be in charge of the election of the Bureau and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003120103	The Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, Aleqa Hammond and Sjúrður Skaale have nominated Pia Kjærsgaard. There are no other settings available. If no one requests a vote, I shall consider the recommendation as adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003120128	For the first Vice-President, the Social Democratic Group has appointed Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen. For the second Vice-President, the Left Group has appointed Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen. For the third Vice-President, the Enhedslisten Group has appointed Mr. Christian Juhl. And to the fourth Vice-President, the Liberal Alliance group has appointed Mr. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003120150	In accordance with the constitution of the electoral federations and the group's recommendation, the following members have been elected: Bent Bøgsted (DF), Mr. Erling Bonnesen (V), Mr. Benny Engelbrecht (S) and Mrs Karen J. Klint (S). Things are now in place and I would ask the President to take the chair.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003120215	I would like to thank you for the confidence that the Danish Parliament has shown me here by re-electing me as President. It's a great honor. But I am also humble, and humility, as you know, comes before honor. Together with my colleagues in the Bureau, I shall endeavour to share the sun and the wind in the best possible way and to be the President of the Council and to look after everyone's interests regardless of party colour. It is my hope that I can lead the work in here in such a way that openness, respect and trust become common denominators. During the summer, the Parliamentary Hall has been rebuilt, among other things. to make it more accessible. The work will continue in the summer of 2018 and will end next year, but the result is already great. I look forward to a new season with my colleagues here in Parliament and to working with all the talented people who have their daily work at Christiansborg.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003120332	I welcome our guests today. Welcome to Her Majesty the Queen, to Hans Royal Highness the Crown Prince, to Her Royal Highness the Crown Princess, to Hans Royal Highness Prince Joachim, to Her Royal Highness Princess Marie and to Her Royal Highness Princess Benedikte. Also warmly welcome to the representatives of the Supreme Court, the Chairman of Greenland's Inatsisartut, the Chairman of Greenland's Naalaksusususut, the Chairman of the Faroe Islands' Lagting and the Faroe Islands' Lagmand and to the Mayor of Copenhagen. I take this opportunity to send Parliament's greetings on this day to Greenland's Inatsisartut and the Faroe Islands' Lating.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003120432	I now give the floor to the Prime Minister to explain to him in the Constitution the general position of the Kingdom and the measures envisaged by the Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003120453	Esbjerg Gymnasium. A windy day in September. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Justice and myself visited. We stood in a hall full of young people. And when the Secretary of State asked out into the hall who dreamed of going out into the world to read or work, his hands went up in a forest of hands. Pia Kjærsgaard): We're gonna stop. I'm sorry, that's unacceptable, but we're gonna have to take a break. Then I think it's quiet again. Here you go, Prime Minister). Thank you. The young people who were in Esbjerg had the courage to live. They raised their hands when the Secretary of State asked: which of you is going with a thought of going out into the world and reading or working after baccalaureate? More than half of them had that dream. Therefore, it can be said that Danish young people, as they are most, have the courage for the world, and that is good. And then it's best if they come back home with new experiences and courage on life, because we need them. Throughout history, the Danes have grasped opportunities, outside and at home. We have not stood still, we have had ambitions, we have driven progress forward. Our country has become richer, our society safer, Denmark has become freer. Richer, safer, freer - this is the balance Denmark is built on, where dynamics and vision are the prerequisites for prosperity and where prosperity is the basis for welfare. It's going well in Denmark. There is cause for optimism. Now we must bring everyone into a brighter future. The government has put in place a plan with four specific objectives right from the start. Firstly, we want to create more private jobs so that we can increase prosperity and thus prosperity. Since the parliamentary elections two years ago, more than 100,000 new private jobs have been created. Secondly, we want to invest in the welfare society that is crucial to the security of all of us. We have invested billions in better health, cancer treatment, care for the elderly and day care for children. Thirdly, we will move thousands out of passive support and into an active life in which the individual supports himself. I believe in the value of taking responsibility, of having something to stand up for in the morning, to grow with the task, to determine his own life. And new figures published this morning show that thousands of people have moved that way. In just over a year, the number of people on cash benefits has fallen by 13,500. We now have the lowest number on public support for 10 years. Fourthly, we will take control of who comes here, because Denmark should not be left open. The number matters. We now have eight years to find a six-month period in which so few people have applied for asylum in Denmark. More private jobs, a stronger core welfare, more members of the working community, managing the influx to Denmark on all four goals, it goes the right way, it goes the right way. Growth has been sustained, unemployment is low, employment is high. The world and Europe have torn free from the crisis, and that is of course important. Of course it has, but we have also made progress ourselves. Government policy makes a difference. I would like to thank our parliamentary basis, the Danish People's Party, for the cooperation. And I would like to thank the other parties of the Folketing, who, after all, have all supported parts of government policy. Several of you are behind important settlements. I also look forward to working together in the new parliamentary year, because even if things are going well and things are going pretty well, we are not in the finish line. We have given the upswing flying height; now we must also give it the flight length. Danish economy is strong. In the years leading up to 2025, we're getting richer. We have an extra room for manoeuvre in the public economy of 36 billion. kr. Firstly, the government will spend 5 billion. kr. on several public investments, motorways, digital infrastructure that bind Denmark together. It is a lot of money, but far from all of them. Secondly, we will spend 7 billion. kr. • the scope for reducing taxes and charges, providing entrepreneurs with better access to capital, encouraging research and the development of new jobs. It is a lot of money, but far from all of them. Thirdly, therefore, we have even more money, the vast majority, back to everything else that we also want: strengthening the police and defence, investing in safer welfare, improving health and care. And then also have something in reserve, for it is always wise with money on the coffin floor. More public investment is part of the answer, but not the whole answer. More public consumption is part of the answer, but not the whole answer. Several tax incentives are part of the answer, but not the whole answer. So when some people are trying to give the impression that the government is going to use rub and stump to put the treasure down, that's not right. But admitted: We will not use rub and stump on public consumption either. We insist on a balance. It is wrong to reduce Danish politics to a choice between tax and welfare. It's a fake choice. I would warn against using all the room for manoeuvre on public spending, it is not responsible. That would be to miss the chance to lay a solid financial foundation under our future. Only to think of the present is such a light-heartedness, one can only afford to do so if one is in opposition. A responsible government must prepare the country for the future. Last time I was Prime Minister, we carried out a number of difficult but absolutely necessary reforms, and the Socialist Government that followed continued the line of clear encouragement and support from both my party and other bourgeois liberal parties. Top tax incentives were implemented; corporate tax was reduced; savings were made on early retirement and cash benefits. And because we here in the Folketing have jointly taken responsibility for the future, and because more Danes work, today we have money to spend. We have already concluded our first partial agreement last week, where together with Dansk Folkeparti we make family cars cheaper, lower the tariffs over Storebælt and find money for necessary investments in infrastructure on Funen. That's a good start. The next step is to ensure that working for even more people pays off. The main objective of Stage II of job reform is to facilitate the tax burden on work for those earning the least. Specifically, 21 000 more people will gain a noticeable gain by moving from passive support to active jobs. It supports a social balance where everyone who can contributes; where there is no standstill, but progress. When the rest of the world moves, it's like standing down. That is why we must have high ambitions. We need to be ready to use the new technology. Robots can provide better welfare, digitalisation can help reduce climate change, future jobs can become more rewarding and less grueling. We must promote a strong Denmark, where we seize the opportunities, and a secure Denmark where everyone will share in the progress. The government has invited the trade union movement, business leaders, experts and others to a partnership for Denmark's future. We must have towering ambitions for digitalisation; therefore, the government will present a strategy for Denmark's digital growth. We must maintain and develop a labour market with both dynamism and proper conditions where there is no social dumping. And in the future, we must be even better at converting and continuing education. That is why the government, employers and trade union movement are negotiating for better adult and continuing training because it is more important than ever to bring everyone along. Individuals are responsible for learning throughout their lives, and that responsibility is greater tomorrow than today, and the new tripartite agreement must pave the way for that. In Denmark we have been good at training as there have been fewer unskilled jobs. It's made us richer, it's made more comfortable. Therefore, the Danes have courage for the future, and a courageous people deserve a courageous Parliament. It looks good for the future when Denmark can attract important investments; when Apple and Facebook put data centres in Aabenraa, Odense and Viborg, because security of supply is high and because we have a lot of green energy. Because we have created a balance between high green ambitions and making money from it. On good days, all our power is produced by wind. Renewable energy accounts for more of energy consumption than ever before. The government has set the target that at least 50%. energy consumption by 2030 must be from renewable energy and that we must be completely independent of fossil fuels. This is not a new ambition, because it was set ten years ago by the then Prime Minister of the Left. At that time he and we didn't have the courage to date, but we've done that since, and it has to be in 2050. And how best to go in that direction, we will make a bid for after New Year in a proposal for a new energy agreement. And when that proposal is in place, and hopefully there is a broad agreement on it, we also have a number of key building blocks for a comprehensive climate plan. Denmark is a green pioneering country. And we have been through a long and tough and joint effort. For 12 of the last 16 years, when we have strengthened our green position, Denmark has had a bourgeois-liberal government. It does not give us a patent on the green transition, but it shows that it is not true when others try to take it. The government, together with the Danish People's Party, has set aside 1 billion. kr. to the solar and wind energy. Last month I launched in New York the new global initiative Partnerships for Green Growth and the World Goals, P4G, so in the green area we are not standing still here too is progress. It's going well in Denmark. Several people have a job, and I am particularly pleased that optimism has taken root throughout the country. I experienced this last month in Esbjerg, the headquarter of Denmark's offshore industry. It was also my clear impression in Thisted, where Hanstholm Harbour has just celebrated its 50th anniversary and has gone from being nothing to today being one of Northern Europe's leading fishing ports. I also recently saw this in Vejle, where old family businesses are helping new growth companies to get on the road. And I saw it just last week when I helped take the first spade at the company Foss, which is setting up a new building that will make room for hundreds of new knowledge workers. There is progress throughout Denmark, and we must continue this course, because we must bring Denmark as a whole. That is why the government is in the process of implementing the largest overall relocation of state jobs ever. 3,900 jobs have come out of the capital and into the rest of the country. We have just received a new status which shows that out of the 3,900 jobs, more than 2,500 have moved in. 23 institutions have moved, and more than 25 cities around Denmark have gained new state jobs. On the way, there were some who thought that it was difficult and perhaps almost impossible to get skilled people to the governing bodies and institutions that moved away from Copenhagen. That criticism has been put to shame. In August I visited the Danish Civil Service and the House of Names in Viborg, and I spoke to a young man who had chosen to take the trip back and forth from Copenhagen while he was watching the time. Others had taken the leap and had moved with the family, and again others commuted to and from Viborg from e.g. Aalborg, because it has now succeeded in creating an attractive legal environment in Viborg. And it is to the satisfaction of the people who are getting new job opportunities and of the citizens who are getting the authorities closer and to the benefit of the city that is getting new jobs. We are moving state jobs on an historic scale, and I am glad that there is a growing understanding here in the Folketing and broader support for it than there was for a start. Because we also have high ambitions for the next wave. In a new round of relocations, the government will re-establish several thousand jobs in the country and we will present our proposal in December. There must be a better geographical balance and we must also stick to the social balance, which is Denmark's strength. After all, some people are talking about the American dream and about the fact that the newsboy can become a billionaire... I've tried the first one myself, but I have the second one for the benefit of me. And I have always believed that it is Denmark that is the country of opportunity: here is free education, safe welfare, gender equality. It is here, in Denmark, that you can have your dreams fulfilled, and people can move. And I am convinced that this gives us a special driving force, because out of social security dynamics and confidence in the future are growing. I'm proud of living in one of the safest societies in the world. That is why the government is also looking after the welfare society. The agreed service costs in the municipalities from 2015-2018 have increased by well over 1 billion. kr.; 1 billion kr. more and not less money, as under the Social Democratic Government. Denmark has one of the world's best welfare societies and it keeps getting better. But perhaps we are not always so good at remembering what we have achieved. Take e.g. Health. A lot has happened since I became Minister for Health in 2001. At the hospitals, 5,100 are employed doctors and as many nurses, i.e. 5,100. This is equivalent to an average of 1 doctor and 1 nurse employed every day except on Sundays. On average, 6 additional doctors and 6 extra nurses per week. So today we have more employees and spend more money on health than ever before. So can you imagine what happens to all the money, and where have all the warm hands and money gone? Yeah, they're one of them. to carry out close to 300,000 more operations, to halve the waiting time for surgery, to significantly better cancer treatment, so much more today than then survives a cancer disease. That's good, and it's worth remembering. But is that good enough? The answer, of course, is no. And it never will be. We must constantly improve. And the challenge we have now is that the needs of the individual are often forgotten and squeezed into a mess of systems. It is unhappy for the citizen, it is demotivating for the employee; we must do better. Therefore, at the beginning of next year, the government will present a cohesion reform. After all, I myself get both angry and worried when many elderly people and runners get into trouble between the hospital and the municipality and their own doctor. In a time of specialization and supersickness, it is extra important that we also take care of the individual very closely. In the new parliamentary year, therefore, the government will also present a proposal for a close and coherent health care system for the elderly and the chronically ill in particular. Because the community has to be there for us if we get sick. The Community must be there for us when we grow old. We need to protect the community. That is the great thing I am talking about here, what embraces all of us, but it is also the community of everyday life. It has to be even stronger. Here, associations and civil society are a cultural pillar of our society. The government will present a strategy to bring more people into society. We'll put money on it from the bet pool. The Community must also be ready with help if the disaster is seriously affected. On 17 June Greenland was hit hard by a mountain slip that caused a tsunami. People lost their lives, homes were destroyed, the basis of life was removed for most citizens in the two settlements, Nuugaatsiaq and Illorsuit. The Danish and Greenlandic authorities have together made a great effort. Thank you for that, and thank you to the Danish Parliament for the support to support the autonomy extraordinarily by 30 million. kr. to help the affected citizens create a new life. We have also agreed to work together to clean up after the previous American presence in Greenland. We have a dialogue on the fisheries area with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, and we have cooperation in the Arctic Council. In the Faroe Islands there is high economic growth and close to full employment. In the Faroe Islands too, optimism is great. For the first time ever, the population has reached 50,000. Both in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland there is a national pride and a sense of self, which is currently the foundation for the work on own constitutions. I fully understand that. But at the same time, the Constitution sets a clear framework, and I know that there is attention to that. I take this discussion seriously. I love Greenland very much. I'm very fond of the Faroe Islands. I love Denmark very much. I care about the Kingdom community. Today I would like to take this opportunity to say to the Greenlandic and Faroese members of the Folketing: Thank you for the great work you are doing for all of us. The terms out and the conditions at home are closer to each other than ever before. The government's new foreign and security policy strategy sets out some key points for Denmark in a challenging time. I look forward to discussing the strategy here in the Folketing soon. This is an important debate, because there is a lot to talk about, unfortunately, that I had just said. The most powerful country in the world, the United States, is on a more unpredictable course than before. The British decision to leave the Community challenges cooperation within the EU. There's a more aggressive Russia and a crazy North Korea. There is instability in North Africa and the Middle East, terrorism and migration. There are threats from cyberspace and attempts to influence our communities from the outside. It's a troubled world. Just yesterday, there was the most horrible and evil act in Las Vegas, the most bloody mass shooting for decades. Just ordinary people who had fun at a country festival were brutally mowed down. So the price of peace and freedom has risen. The overall threat picture is more serious than in any other period after the fall of the Wall. That is why the government will give the military, defend more muscles, so that we can better contribute to NATO's collective deterrence and defence, and so that we can continue to be engaged in the world. We will increase defence capabilities to support the police for the benefit of our security, and we will significantly strengthen protection against cyber attacks. This will be part of the proposal for a new defence agreement that we will be presenting later this month. The government will give the defense a substantial boost. The major investments in defence, border control, police, intelligence services and our other national security are necessary. But the common culture and the ideals of freedom and equal opportunities that have bound us together for generations are our firm place in a troubled world. Our community is the strongest protection of all. Freedom and equal rights are also common European values. And here the EU is the crucial forum for defending Danish interests. Cooperation is not perfect, but it is infinitely better than the alternative: a divided Europe where everyone is closest to themselves. We must not take the winnings for granted. Brexit reminded us of that. The benefits may seem invisible in daily life, but they are there and they are large: the internal market • Danish companies that have free access to 500 million consumers, Danish consumers who have free access to a sea of goods. The benefit to an ordinary family can be estimated at DKK 65,000. a year. We need the European Union. It is our participation in the European Union that has brought prosperity to Denmark, and it is precisely for this reason that it is so important not to lose sight of new, large and far-reaching integration projects, but to use our strength for what matters: growth and jobs, migration, control of external borders and security. Precisely because we need the European Union, we also need to put an end to obvious injustices. There must be a balance in EU policy. The vast majority of EU citizens in Denmark work, they pay taxes, they contribute to society, and we cannot do without them. But when freedom of movement is exploited for begging rather than for work, or when you bring a child's check back to a country where it is worth three times as much as in Denmark, it is unreasonable. We need a new reasonableness and a better balance. Next month, Denmark will take over the Presidency of the Council of Europe, and here it is my clear ambition and the clear ambition of the government to work in the same direction: against unreasonableness and for reasonableness. In some areas, the Court of Human Rights has created a practice and a legal situation in which the people and individual countries cannot see themselves. I cannot accept that we cannot expel deeply criminal foreigners from Denmark on the grounds of family and private life. It's against my sense of justice. I cannot explain that criminals from some EU countries have to stay in Denmark because the prisons in their countries of origin do not live up to the human rights that the countries themselves have signed. That should not be a problem in Denmark. So here, too, there is a need for new reasonableness. European cooperation, both within the European Union and within the Council of Europe, must make sense to citizens. It is part of a free, rich and peaceful Europe. We fight for Danish values in the world. I am proud of the efforts of our sent-out men and women in the world's hotspots: Iraq, Afghanistan, Mali, Kosovo, South Sudan, South Korea. You're honoring Denmark. And I am very proud that Denmark is fighting for the women of the world. When others pull out, we're gonna run with extra strength. And the government will now devote the largest amount of Danish history to humanitarian aid. We want to help and give more people the hope of a better future in their home countries, so that fewer people are looking towards Europe. We are saving money at asylum centres in Denmark, and it is money that we can instead use to help people in the neighbourhood. And that way, what we do at home and what we do out is all together. That is why the government will continue with the tight immigration policy. We are working to have asylum seekers who have been rejected sent home. We want to maintain strict family reunification rules and we want to tighten the rules on citizenship. Danish citizenship is for those who want to be part of Denmark, for people who want our value and democracy. The joint action in the European Union has brought down the migratory flow. Politics makes a difference. The tightening up of immigration policy which we have implemented in Denmark has helped to bring down the number of asylum seekers in Denmark significantly compared to the rest of Europe. Politics makes a difference. The tightening of cash assistance and integration benefits that we have carried out together with the Danish People's Party helps to get more refugees and immigrants to work. Politics makes a difference. The integration agreements concluded by the social partners, the municipalities and the government mean that far more refugees are now declared ready for work than ever before. Politics makes a difference. It's going the right way, but we're not there. Despite many good intentions, a large number of plans and proposals, including several for which I myself have a responsibility, there are problems that have not been resolved. Rundtom in the country holes have been struck in the Danish map; it is in geographical areas and mentally. Here you live without contact with the rest of society, and many obviously do not want that contact. There is a counterculture that has grown out of an environment where too many live on transfer income, where it is not the rule to do a job where there is not the participation, the responsibility, the community that results from having a job where more are criminals. And we just have to note that we have failed to take effective action against parallel societies. It is a serious failure and we must take that responsibility on board. It is important for me to say that the vast majority who come to Denmark from outside make a positive contribution. I meet many well-integrated immigrants and descendants who are concerned about the future of their children, who fear that their own children, who are caring for the school, who work well, will be beaten up with young people who do not use the opportunities offered by Danish society. I will say to all of you with a foreign background that has taken Denmark to you: you are welcome. You're doing good, keep doing it. Integration is not about skin color or religion, it is about choosing Denmark for. Denmark is and must be Denmark, a safe country, a free country, and therefore we must address the major problems that arise when our freedoms are placed in the hands of some who use them to counter freedom. The Danish free school tradition is an example that shows the dilemma. The free schools have grown out of Grundtvig's thoughts, from Kold's thoughts, as a tool for empowering, creating more freedom. But the freedom used in the hands of Danish school leaders, teachers and parents to enlighten is unfortunately used in other schools to darken. Danish rules, laws and norms actually fail in areas that are not free and Danish in their sets of values. That is why the government has tightened legislation for free schools. That is why the supervisory authorities have followed up. One school has been permanently deprived of its state subsidies, others have been placed under tighter supervision, and I am very pleased that the authorities are doing away with schools that are failing their responsibilities, a responsibility to equip children to live in a country where we have freedom and democracy. But it doesn't stop here. We need to take a firmer and more direct approach to the root of the problems. We need to take a firmer approach to the root of the problems, because otherwise they will grow over our heads with the risk that everyone will be cut over a comb, so that we lose the tolerance for diversity, which is also a Danish value. The government will therefore come up with a series of concrete proposals at the end of the year on how we can take a much more targeted approach to parallel societies. Last month two citizens were hit by shots at Nørrebro in Copenhagen. Last week, a civilian police car was shot at a direct attack on those employed to look after us, a direct attack on the confidence and security of our society. As citizens, we must be able to live our lives and walk in peace and quiet on the streets, and public servants must not work at the risk of their lives. On the contrary, they deserve a huge respect for what they do. Fight respect for all of you who work hard, for Denmark to be a good and safe country. This is the case in the police, in hospitals, in nursing homes, in kindergartens, in schools, in social offices, in settlements, in all public places. You take care of Denmark. And that's why we have to take care of trust and security. That is our task. There are serious gang conflicts. Crime must be fought hard against hard. We do so with the series of strong initiatives against gangs that we have adopted here in the Folketing. We do that by strengthening the police. We do this by asking the defense to relieve the police during a difficult time. But, most importantly, we must prevent people from ending up in the situation where they destroy their lives, destroying the lives of others. And most importantly, we need to get hold of young people before things go horribly and irreparablely wrong. We need to get children and young people away from crime and into a decent life. The government will hold the very young criminals to account for their actions. There has to be a consequence. But children are children, and we don't want to have children in prison. We will propose to set up new juvenile delinquency boards with a judge in charge to deal with cases involving children and young people down to 12 years of age, which are going into hard crime, so we take it at the start, meet them with a quick and consistent response. The government will shortly be presenting our reform of the fight against juvenile delinquency. Young people must meet with a consistent and firm hand when they go wrong, but they must also meet with a warm heart and a push towards a different and better life. The government's proposal on juvenile delinquency is a new piece in our overall strategy to support children and young people on the edge, get them off the edge and forward into life, along with the vast majority of Denmark's youth. Last year 138 000 young people received a diploma in their hands, from vocational training, high school or higher education. These are historically many. In these years we spend more money on education than ever before. More than 30 billion. kr. for secondary and higher education only. That is an increase of 30%. over 10 years. Nevertheless, in each class there are typically three, four, five pupils who do not have a hold on the profession, who are not enthusiastic about the possibilities, but, on the contrary, are drawn down by powerlessness. We must not let them down. Education is becoming increasingly important to get a job, to support yourself, to survive in life. The price of not doing anything increases. That is why I am pleased that in June we reached a political agreement on day-to-day offers with additional support for vulnerable children. That is why I am very pleased with the agreement we have reached with the trade union movement and employers on more internships for young people in vocational training. That is why I look forward to an agreement very soon, hopefully, on the preparatory training provision for young people who have the most difficulty finding their way after primary school, and that is why I am pleased that the school pool of 0.5 billion. kr. now working at more than 100 primary schools across the country, a pool which is an offer to schools with many professionally weak pupils. On the other hand, let me say that, as it is, it is completely incomprehensible to me that the schools of the City of Copenhagen, the municipality with the greatest problems, are closing the door to a bag of money and an outstretched hand. I think that is a failure of the students in Copenhagen. In August I visited the Søndervang School in Aarhus. Here they have already raised the level by 1 character points in a few years, although more than nine out of ten pupils have immigrant backgrounds. Now the school pool needs to help them make it even better. Last month I was at Særslev-Hårslev School on Nordfyn. Here Cecilie and Liva from the 7th grade told us that school day is now mobile free, that the students must be out in all the free areas, and that a more structured school day makes it easier to learn and to thrive. It is my hope that methods and approaches from around 100 schools around the country will now spread to many more schools for the benefit of the children who need it most, so we will all get along. 'Cause everybody's coming! Now's our chance, with the better times. And why is that important? Yes, it is important because Denmark is a country where we gain common strength by being at eye level with each other. We share school and residential quarters and talk over the hedge or coffee, even though we are different. That balance is more important than anything else. That is why I say quite clearly against the counterculture and parallel societies that divide people. I want a Denmark where there is freedom of diversity and equal opportunities. Today I am delighted to be able to give my speech in a Parliamentary Chamber where we have got better working conditions for those who, for example, have been able to do so. Need a wheelchair. All that was missing in the heart of democracy. It's about time, you might say. I would like to thank the President of Parliament and the rest of the Bureau for their important priorities. Next month the government will table a bill against for For we must constantly move towards a Denmark where more participants, where more are involved, where more participate actively, not only the enthusiastic young people at Esbjerg Gymnasium and their like-minded, but all of us, all of us Danes, all of us who want Denmark. It's going well in Denmark. It's kind of going pretty well. There is cause for optimism. And if we use the good times with due diligence, we will also have something to have optimism in future, even more. Then we can face even better times, better than ever, for more than ever. May I not suggest that we start the new parliamentary year by bringing a Denmark live. Denmark live! Three-fold hoorays from the hall
ParlaMint-DK_20171003124756	Thank you to the Prime Minister for the opening statement, which will be debated on Thursday.
ParlaMint-DK_20171003124807	Then there are only four draft laws: Minister for Finance (Kristian Jensen): Bill no. L 1 (Proposal for the Finance Act for the financial year 2018), Bill No. L 2 (Proposal for a Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for state, municipalities and regions for the financial year 2021) and Bill No. L 3 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial years 2014-2017, Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2018, Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2019 and Law on the establishment of expenditure ceilings for State, Municipalities and Regions for the financial year 2020. Tax Minister (Karsten Lauritzen): Bill No. L 4 (Proposal for a Law amending the Registration Tax Act and the Fuel Consumption Tax Act. of vehicles, raising the repair limit and raising and increasing the differentiation of fuel consumption tax, etc.). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 4 October 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
