ParlaMint-DK_20170112100018	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 114 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Environmental Approval, etc.) the law on the protection of the environment, the law on the use of fertilizers in agriculture and on plant cover and various other laws. and the introduction of general rules on the use of fertilisers on land and on livestock farming, etc. to implement parts of the Food and Agriculture Package and amendments resulting from the EIA Directive, etc.). Marie Krarup (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 49 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution amending the Defence Act with a view to clarifying the objectives of the defence parliament). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). The Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so in accordance with paragraph 19 of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to give the Folketing a written statement of 12/1 17 on the development of EU cooperation in 2016. R 7). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk. The statement will be debated on Thursday 9 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100108	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100314	The debate is open. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100333	When you look at the text of the agreement from the trialogue, you see that there are, of course, some of the texts that you can only agree with. It says that we must ensure that in future companies can have the employees they need. It also says that we must act in good time and ensure that we can continue to develop more jobs in the future and provide the skilled workforce that companies are looking for. Right now, things are going much better in the country with greater growth and more jobs. That's really good. And if this continues, what we all hope for, of course, then we can also run the risk of missing people in the future. That is why I am actually very pleased that the social partners and the government have come together and made this agreement that we are discussing in the Chamber today. When you talk about education, there are three things that I think are incredibly important. First, we need to ensure flexible opportunities within the education system. We need to ensure that people want to train, and we need to ensure that more people can do it on an ongoing basis. I would therefore like to highlight three points from the draft law. Today we have a fairly good system in which, after you have been fired and lack of training, you can get training for up to six weeks in order to be able to stick to the labour market. The framework for this has, however, become too rigid, and this proposal allows training to be adapted more individually than before and to increase the range of courses. It is incredibly important that the individual unemployed have some opportunities and can adapt their education to the needs of the individual. The proposal also provides for a five-week waiting period, but I am particularly pleased that we can continue the course of the period of notice and therefore not stop. This is incredibly important. We all know that if people cannot train, it is of course useful; it is no use putting them into training if they do not want to and if they do not want to. I have worked with a number of people at the harbour and met many other people, whom I would say have little positive experience of sitting on a school bench. And they'll actually only do it if there's an economic carrot. It is, of course, a good thing that, in future, you can train at 100%. I think so, but the reason why the Social Democratic Party wanted 110% was precisely to give this group an extra carrot, which we believe will be able to get even more in education. One of the major problems is to ensure that skilled workers with outdated skills can continue to train and get a job. That is why we are now saying that if you are skilled and have been unemployed for six months, you can have the right to an adult apprenticeship scheme if it is in occupations where there is a shortage of labour. Today we have to be unemployed for 12 months, which is why the proposal is also a clear improvement. So, overall, we in the Social Democratic Party agree with the proposal. We are pleased that the parties have agreed and we are therefore voting in favour of the proposal. But that being said, there are things we do not quite understand. With one hand the government gives the opportunity for more and better education, with the other hand you take. You cut 2%. In the future, which everything else equal will mean quite a lot. Quality will be lower and fewer people will be able to get an education. The former Left Government also proposed a few weeks after the introduction of the tripartite negotiations in its 2025 plan to abolish the adult apprenticeship scheme for people at work, which I think seems rather uncomfortable to the parties. Now we have a new government, but we can only say that we are more concerned with finding money for tax relief than is the most important thing, namely to ensure proper training and thus to do what is in the tripartite agreement, that is to say to act in good time. I know that many in here and elsewhere are trying to tell you that the Social Democracy has no answer to anything, but as far as I know, we are actually the only ones who have a 2025 plan, as the government has fallen and the new government has not yet come up with any. And here we point out precisely the importance of focusing on education; to ensure that the many unskilled must have an education because we need everyone. We must ensure continuing training, as there are many people today who have a job but who still need to build on more. For us, the time is not for tax cuts and major labour market reforms. The time is to focus on more education and an increased level of education. But all in all, of course, we think the proposal is sensible and we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100753	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100758	Thank you. Apart from the conclusion itself, I am very much in line with the rapporteur, in other words that there are some clear improvements in the proposal. And then I can see a really stupid, meaningless deterioration, namely that you want to introduce a five-week waiting period for the unemployed before they can get started with an education unless they get started with it during the period of notice, then you can continue, and that is of course very good. What is the rapporteur's position on that part of the proposal? And will the rapporteur help us to table an amendment and see if we can obtain a majority to vote it out of the proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100842	I know that the Social Democratic Party has a bit more experience of sitting in negotiations than the Enhedslisten has, and that is how when you sit in negotiations there are things you have to swallow and things you can take. That's what happens when you're a shop steward. I have great respect for the fact that this has been a negotiation between the parties that some have taken and some have had. The overall result is fine and therefore the Social Democracy will not help to change it. We have great respect for tripartite negotiations, and when we have decided in tripartite negotiations to make this agreement, that is what we are sticking to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100913	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100914	Yes, but now it is not the director of the Danish Employers' Association or the chairman of the LO and the FTF who has to sit and press the button in this Chamber. Leif Lahn Jensen and all of us, and so it would be nice to hear what Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen thinks about the point of the agreement, if it is not entirely contradictory, that at one end some good things are being done to improve the training opportunities of the unemployed, and then at the other end something is being done that is going in exactly the opposite direction. For this career period will mean that there are some unemployed people who are missing out on some educational opportunities and perhaps also some job opportunities. Shouldn't we try to get rid of it from the bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112100956	What was extremely important to me, even when we had it among the conciliation parties, was that I could see that at some point it was actually difficult and that if one of these courses were given during the period of notice, it could not actually be completed. It was discussed quite a lot among the conciliation parties, and it ended up that if during the period of notice you start an education within the 6 weeks of training, you can sort it out. That was the most important thing for me, and that is why I have approved it and said that we have got it in and that I therefore think that the agreement that is now is a fine agreement and it makes everything else equally easier for a lot of people to train, and that is why, of course, we are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101036	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101042	Thank you for that, President. This bill and the agreement there is is one that we in the Danish People's Party think is a good deal. It is also difficult to be opposed when one can see that the parties in their negotiations have largely taken it in and talked about what we in the Danish People's Party have pointed out in the last few years that we should have changed. That is why we can only be satisfied that they have arrived at that result. We would have liked there to have been more, but as a starting point we think that the measures included in the agreement are very good. One of the things that I think is missing and that should have been looked at a little more is the direct placement of jobs, the direct contact between cashiers and job centres and employers, where employers should be more enlightening about what they lack of labour in the future so that we can get people started with the right education. It's missing from the deal here. I think we could have taken that on board, but it is something that we need to talk to the Minister for Employment about afterwards, i.e. whether we can do some work there. But when you look at what's in the agreement... this training boost where you can get 100 percent. We also think it is quite fine, especially that it is targeted at those areas where we can see that we are going to lack labour. It is there when the Minister makes the positive list that I think employers should play more with, rather than, as we hear Danish Industry say, they have to pick up labour from abroad. Then they will have to play more and mark what it is that we have to do with what education we have to give so that they can get the labour they say they can't get at this time. I hope this will work, but otherwise we will have to deal with it later. But it is an excellent solution which we in the Danish People's Party support. There is also the point that if you take an education that is not on the positive list of courses on unemployment benefits, you can still take away at the 80%. of the benefits, if that's what you want. It is not much used today, so it will probably not be in the future either. But, you know, we hope that a lot of people are going into it. Then there's this six-week well-chosen education. One of the criticisms was that more courses could not be combined. That was among other things. what Danish Metal had criticised, that is, that you could not combine more courses. This was then corrected here, and now you can take combined courses within the 6 weeks. But why f... No, I must not say that I am sorry in advance, but could you not have looked at it and then said that you had to delete those six weeks, because it might be that there were some employees who needed 8 weeks of combined courses, instead of sticking to those 6 weeks and then a word I must not say. It is simply foolish to lock up in 6 weeks if it is 8 weeks or 9 weeks or 10 weeks with some combined courses needed, and then you have a job. Then I know that there is a pool where you can get long-term courses in connection with employment, and that is also fine, but drop as the 6 weeks of self-chosen education and look at what the reason is in it, how to combine what it is for some courses that provide a job. And then we can say, that's what we have to do. We must ensure that the unemployed receive the courses that can provide a job. But I understand that there were some who insisted that the six weeks of training should be there, and I also respect the agreements of the social partners there should not be anything that we do, of course. Then there's this adult student thing. I think it is fine, if it is in those sectors where there is a shortage of labour, that you can then start an adult education after six months of unemployment. There are a lot of people who can make use of that scheme, and I look forward to it. However, the Danish People's Party supports this proposal, and we hope that we can see what other measures will be taken. I know that we are in the Finance Act and all that, but I also think that we should perhaps look a little more closely at the reduction in vocational training there. Of course, I also respect a financial law, which the Danish People's Party itself has voted in favour of here. There can always be things that can be looked at if they can be done differently, and I hope the Minister will be able to do so, but we respect the agreements that have been made, of course. After all, that's the way it is. So we say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101543	Thank you. And there is a brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101547	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. The rapporteur said something extremely sensible, and I hope that many more parties in this Chamber will be able to join us, namely: we must ensure that the unemployed receive the training they need in order for them to be able to get a job. Whether it lasts 6 weeks or 8 weeks or something else is minor. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. Should we try to make some amendments together for this proposal so that we can try to get closer? That is one question. The second question is: since you have the sensible approach, why does the rapporteur support a proposal to limit the educational opportunities of the unemployed? This is done by introducing a five-week waiting period before taking advantage of the possibility of a six-week training course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101640	Thank you. And here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101642	Thanks to Finn Sørensen. It's not often you hear such commendable words. You have to take them with a kiss hand. Thank you. I shall now turn to the amendment. We support the agreement that has been made and do not propose amendments to an agreement reached by the social partners, but we are ready to negotiate with the Minister whether we could have it removed by six weeks later. So for the five-week waiting time. Now I have been out on the labour market for many years before I came in here, and basically I do not think that when you leave a job you should start training from day one. You need time to figure out what kind of education you need to get a job. I also think it is reasonable that we should have the opportunity to see if we could now get a job elsewhere without starting an education. Most people get a job quite quickly when they leave, and I don't think it should be the case that you should start by having an upskill from day one, no, there you have to start by looking for a job, and if you can't get it, you have to think about what it is then for a course you need to get a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101758	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101801	This is quite contradictory, because in his rapporteur's speech the rapporteur said that we should ensure that the unemployed were given the training they needed so that they could get a job. And if it's the case that you as unemployed may even have a job on hand, but you just need a course on e.g. 6 weeks to get the job, then it is pointless that you have to wait 5 weeks before you can get started on it. Then perhaps someone else has in the meantime got the job, or the employer has found out that he doesn't need anyone or anything, I don't know. This is the way to reduce the opportunities for the unemployed. So that's pretty contradictory.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101838	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101839	I don't really think so. The purpose must be for the unemployed person to get a job. And then for this, if you have a job on hand, but you need a course. There is, in fact, the possibility that you can get the course in connection with employment, and then you have to use that opportunity. This can be done by making an appointment with the employer. You have this job, and you want to start the course. Then you make an appointment for the course in connection with the appointment. You can actually do that today. Then you can present your employment contract and say: I have an appointment here, I need this course, and then you can get it according to the rules. It's working. There's a pool that you can get in addition to the 6 weeks that are here. So I do not think that is contradictory.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101920	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted, and then it's Mr. Bøgsted. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112101922	Thank you. L 97, which we are discussing here, translates parts of the tripartite agreement on employment concluded by the former Left Government with the social partners in late summer last year. I would like to thank the parties involved for their wide cooperation and broad agreements for the benefit of both employers and employees. It is Denmark at its best. The Danish economy is progressing, and of course it is contagious in the Danish labour market. Employment is rising and unemployment is falling. This is an incredibly pleasing development, but it also makes demands. This requires the government, the municipalities and the regions. It makes demands on companies and workers. There are now sectors and parts of the country where companies find it difficult to recruit the necessary labour force, and the problem and challenge are growing as economic growth progresses. That is why we need to put into practice the initiatives contained in the tripartite agreement, and that is what we are doing with this bill. Firstly, the draft law ensures a more flexible training boost. A temporary scheme shall be introduced from 1 March 2017 to 31 December 2019, during which benefit recipients may receive 100% of the daily subsistence allowance. of the previous daily allowance rate during training. There is, however, the condition that the training is linked to posts with the greatest recruitment challenges. Secondly, the draft law makes it easier for unemployed skilled workers to have access to the adult apprenticeship scheme. Today, as I said, there is a requirement for 12 months of unemployment, but the draft law gives access even after six months of unemployment, and again vocational training must be in areas where there is a shortage of labour. Thirdly, the draft law provides for a more flexible system of 6 weeks of job-oriented training. Benefit recipients and unemployed people in flex jobs are now given more freedom to combine courses within occupational groups on a positive list when they take part in job-oriented training for up to 6 weeks. At the same time, a five-week waiting period is introduced. Overall, the training is targeted at areas where there are good employment opportunities, and the initiatives thus support sufficient and qualified labour throughout Denmark. This is necessary if we are to ensure growth, prosperity and prosperity in the future. Against this background, the Left can support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102212	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102216	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. I agree with the positive points raised by the rapporteur. My question is: why is it so important to introduce the five-week waiting period before the unemployed can embark on such a six-week training course? Why is this so important?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102236	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102237	After all, this is an overall agreement reached by the social partners and the government. As previous rapporteurs have said, it has been given and taken, and this is an overall agreement in which all parties can see themselves and which is also economically linked. And I would like to make it clear that there are in fact 70 AMU courses which are possible within that period, but it is of course a question of their being particularly relevant to the needs of the labour market. So it is not either-or that is actually possible to take a course within the first 5 weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102318	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102319	Yes, I am aware of that, but nevertheless it is a restriction, in relation to what exists today, when you introduce such a waiting period, and that is just what I am asking: why is it so important? And then you can't just answer that somebody else has agreed to do that. I mean, why is it so important that it should definitely be included? Is that what saves the whole economy in this proposal to introduce this five-week waiting period?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102344	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102347	I believe that this is an overall, sensible agreement. There are some good measures that I have mentioned, and Mr. Finn Sørensen is of the opinion that the five-week waiting period is restrictive in relation to the availability of the unemployed. But I think that, overall, this gives the unemployed better opportunities than they have had. I'll give you 100 percent. unemployment benefit if they take training courses in certain areas where there is a shortage of labour. So my conclusion is that this kind of thing gives a boost, both in relation to the opportunities for the unemployed, but also in relation to the opportunities for companies to obtain future labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102424	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102429	Thank you. I'm gonna stay on the trail, and that's the way it is out of sincere curiosity. I think that in relation to this five-week waiting period, we certainly have all the parties assessed for and against every detail of this proposal. What does the rapporteur think is the reason why this five-week waiting period is being introduced? What is the attempt to create value? So why, in the rapporteur's view, is this done?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102457	Now the social partners and the government have dealt with the various elements, and this is an element among many. Overall, this gives, I think, a positive approach and a boost to the entire labour market in Denmark. It is true, then, that for some unemployed people it can be seen as a restriction if you cannot start an additional training immediately after you have become unemployed and receive unemployment benefit. But there are both elements that are about the fact that you can start an education during the period of notice. This is a new step, it is an improvement and there are, in fact, as I have said before, 70 courses that you can take because there is a widespread need for labour here. And that possibility is still absent during the Karen period.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102547	Sir. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102549	I am not really asking for the rapporteur to defend it. I ask more because I am really lurking at why it has been introduced, what is the point of it. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Why is this little thing being introduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102603	Well, this is also about the fact that when you are available and have gone on unemployment benefits, there will be the opportunity for some unemployed people to go back to a job without having to qualify for any given period, and we also need that. We need, as a matter of fact, at the moment, the unemployed, as soon as they leave one job, to get on with another job as quickly as possible. Everyone benefits from this. And then I also think that this has helped to ensure that we could also take the other positive elements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102640	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, next rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112102655	Thank you. The previous rapporteurs have, of course, explained very well the improvements in this proposal, so I do not need to repeat that. Perhaps I should say, and it is not in any way to destroy the good feeling that what we are doing here is not something huge, and I really do not think the previous rapporteurs have done that either. The most realistic compared to that was perhaps Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Because I think we have to acknowledge that these things are good, they point in the right direction, except for one thing. But this is far from being sufficient to meet the challenges we face in the coming years, and it is a development that is already under way where thousands of unskilled people become redundant and where thousands of skilled people are needed. I shall confine myself to saying that there are thousands of figures floating in the air about it, but some are up in really large numbers, so that in a few years we lack 30,000 skilled workers. And there is a huge educational effort to be made. And if we can agree that this is just a tiny patch on that problem, we've come a long way. Then there is our position on the bill. I simply do not understand why, in a bouquet of good improvements, it is absolutely necessary to restrict the opportunities for the unemployed. And that is what we are doing by introducing a five-week waiting period in which the unemployed cannot get started on the course of such a six-week period. There is absolutely no justification for this in the comments in the draft law. It just comes in: Boom, we're gonna do that. There is no description of what the economy in it really is, how many are affected, what the consequences are or anything. It just seems like some spot you have over at the Danish Employers' Association, so if you are going to give the unemployed some better training opportunities, which you are basically opposed to, then they also have to pay themselves in some strange way. And we think that's pulling it all down to a level where it doesn't belong. The position of the Enhedslisten is that as long as one cannot argue objectively for such a deterioration and can make it probable that it will have no negative effects, we must fight to remove that deterioration. And if we cannot get it removed, we will not support the bill in the end. This is completely meaningless, because whatever that means, it will mean that some unemployed people will be restricted in their educational opportunities and therefore also in their job opportunities. And that is quite contrary to the intention that has been expressed, the excellent intention which is also reflected in the other parts of the legislative proposal. So what's the logic of that? There is no logic at all, I am seriously afraid. So it's just gonna have to be tampered with. And I am surprised that rapporteurs, who themselves have to take political responsibility in this Chamber and have to press the button at some point, simply refer to the fact that this is something that some others have agreed to do and then do so. But the fact that you yourself are not able to reflect on the consequences of what you are doing, I think it is really a pity. So that is our position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103020	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103023	I would just like to ask the rapporteur very briefly whether the rapporteur agrees with me that, overall, this bill helps lots of people, unskilled and skilled, to get closer to education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103036	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103037	We agree that there are a number of elements in this bill that are improvements, and I have said that too. But unlike Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen therefore has the Enhedslisten's view of the legislation we are going to make in here that concerns workers in this country, that we should not be subject to a position that, because improvements are being made at one end, we absolutely must find some deterioration at the other end. That is the difference between our approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103108	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103110	Then I guess we also agree that all those people who can look forward to a hundred percent education allowance, all those who can look forward to having a more flexible 6 weeks self-chosen education, all those who can look forward to adult learning, certainly cannot thank Enhedslisten for it, because Enhedslisten votes no. I guess we agree on that, don't we?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103129	We do agree that here in the Danish Parliament our work is to deal with the legislative proposals that lie in the substance of it and argue for the views we have in relation to the individual elements, and to do our work and our best to ensure that the legislative proposals are best for employees. I assume that is our common agenda in here. And that means fighting to change things so that they are in order.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103200	Thank you. There are no more comments... I'm gonna have to call sir. Finn Sørensen back. Finn Sørensen very much). Mr President, there is one point I should like to make. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103218	Thank you. It's really just to follow up on Mr. Mr Leif Lahn Jensen's question to the rapporteur. When, in general terms, these are measures that increase the opportunities for Danish employees, is it correct that Enhedslisten will vote against? I have actually understood that the Enhedslisten votes for things that make things better for people. As a whole, I think that this is an agreement that offers more opportunities to Danish employees, and especially when we talk about training and training boosts, this is something that is going in the right direction. And then Enhedslisten votes against. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103312	It is true that the Enhedslisten is voting for improvements, for things that make it better for employees in this country. But we are also voting against the deterioration in the conditions of employees in this case: the unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103331	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103334	But do I understand that Enhedslisten is going to make a proposal for a period of waiting? The Enhedslisten will put it, and it is likely to be voted down. And then Enhedslisten will end up voting for the entire bill... it was an opportunity. Otherwise, one must at least defend outwardly that the measures, the promise now being given, that one can now receive and take an education of one hundred percent daily allowance for a period of time, do not really want to be part of the support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103410	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103411	Now, it's kind of sir. Hans Andersen and all the others who will vote in favour of the deterioration that lies in what has to be defended. It is simply pointed out that this is something on which the social partners agree. But in this Chamber we must therefore discuss the substantive content of the legislative proposals, and we must be able, as rapporteur, to argue why it is sensible to introduce a five-week period which will reduce the educational opportunities of some unemployed people. The Enhedslisten agrees with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103448	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103450	I understand perfectly well that the Enhedslisten is against the five-week period, but at the same time Mr. Finn Sørensen, that when you vote against, you vote against the tripartite agreement. You just can't use it for anything. That's it, sir. Finn Sørensen says. There is nothing to raffle about: Enhedslisten votes against L 97. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103516	What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that we will fight to remove the deterioration in the situation and that we cannot live with the legislative proposal as it now stands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103526	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103528	Why does Mr. Finn Sørensen didn't see directly that Enhedslisten votes against L 97? For the change proposed by Enhedslisten is not going through, and I have argued why a 5-week period is good enough from the point of view of the Danish People's Party. You have to have time to look for a job, and you have to have time to find out what training you need, and if you have a job on hand, you can get an education in connection with employment in the company. I guess it's pretty simple to understand. But Mr. Finn Sørensen says: The Enhedslisten cannot use the parties' agreement for anything. Then you vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103606	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, we are not going to vote on the agreement of the parties here, we are going to vote on a bill tabled by the government, and each rapporteur has to deal with the specific elements of that bill. And through my questions to the previous rapporteurs, I have given the rapporteurs a fair chance to argue why they support the deterioration in this draft law. Sir. Bent Bøgsted was the only one who tried to go into the substance of it. I don't agree with Mr. Knox. Bent Bøgsted's arguments, but Mr. Bent Bøgsted certainly wanted him to do it. The other two rapporteurs just referred to the fact that this was something the parties had agreed on. They didn't have any arguments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103650	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103703	We are dealing here with L 97, which is just a legislative proposal, as has been said, which intends to translate parts of the tripartite agreement negotiated by the former Left Government with the social partners last August. As has been said, there are several elements, among others. the flexible training boost, better access for the unemployed skilled workers to the adult apprentice scheme and a more flexible system of 6 weeks of job-oriented training. We also feel in the Liberal Alliance that it is positive to strengthen the opportunities for the unemployed to return to the labour market. Obviously, this is something we are also very concerned about, so overall, the Liberal Alliance can of course support this bill. As a matter of fact, I would like to respond to Mr. Finn Sørensen's question by just talking about this five-week waiting period. In fact, in the Liberal Alliance, we think that the reason why this is a very good idea, apart from the fact that it is quite factual, that it is something that the parties have negotiated and agreed that it makes sense. Because when you get free, we actually think it's very healthy that you have a time to figure out what you can and what you can do without qualification, i.e. if you can get a job with what you already can today. If from day one you can take a 6-week course or another course, then maybe that's what you tend to resort to right away. We do not know that, but we in the Liberal Alliance think it is quite reasonable to consider and try to get a job with what you already can before you start continuing training and upgrading. That's why we actually think this five-week waiting period is reasonable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103853	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103857	Thank you, and thank you, for initiating the debate. But it is well understood that the reason why this restriction is introduced is because it is not today a fear that the unemployed should abuse it to sit down on the school bench instead of getting out and looking for a job. Isn't that the real reason for this deterioration?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112103923	I do not think it is right to use the word abuse. I understand if you consider as available whether there are other options that might be exciting to look at. It is not abuse that you look that way, but we believe that when you stand as a free person, it is most obvious that you are considering trying to get a job on the basis of the competences that you have before, as the rapporteur says, that is how it is today, and you have the right to do so, but we just think that it makes more sense to consider whether you cannot get a job on the basis of the skills you already have, rather than immediately thinking about upgrading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104005	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104007	Does the rapporteur not agree with me that this is a contradiction in relation to the objectives that have otherwise been described, excellent objectives that it is a question of ensuring that the unemployed are trained, and then a limitation is introduced? That is what we are doing because that is not the case today, and that can only lead to some unemployed people, we do not know how many, we have to ask about, being restricted in their training opportunities within the framework that is now in place? So what's the sense of it? That is a contradiction in relation to what is otherwise the objective of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104048	After all, the objective is to get more unemployed people into work, and it is true that there is a situation where we have to recognise that there may be a need for skilled labour, and that is exactly what we want with the coinage here, namely to be able to train more people. But that doesn't mean that everyone has to be trained to get a job. There are some who do not need upskilling, and we give them a greater incentive for them to go out and find a job, by having a waiting period. In addition, the example used by the rapporteur himself in his rapporteur's speech was that if you were standing with a job that required a course, you would be forced to wait five weeks and that was silly. Yeah, but then it could be that the company could go in and offer it. If a company would like to have the individual unemployed as a workforce and see qualifications in the individual unemployed, the company could go in and offer the course in question, because the company also has an interest in not having to wait 5 weeks. So there the company could go in and take responsibility and offer the course instead of that being something that we as a society have to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104146	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104154	Thank you. The alternative supports that benefit recipients can continue training against occupations with a shortage of 100 per cent labour force. daily subsistence allowance. We support better access to the adult apprentice scheme and we support a more flexible system of 6 weeks of job-oriented efforts to combine more courses. I'm also having a little trouble understanding the meaning of that caring period. I think it's fine that both LA and DF have tried to explain it. But I do not agree that this is an advantage. I myself have a small company, and I do not really see why it should be an advantage for companies to be unable to get a rapid retraining programme started. So I would like to help you to see if you could table an amendment on that point. On the other hand, I really like sir. Bent Bøgsted's proposal to make it more flexible, so that if it should take 8 weeks or more, we can still ensure that people get the qualification they need and it should not be so rigorous. We are pleased to support legislation that is so widely anchored in the population and that the social partners have been aware of. It is, of course, a pity that it is cast so much in concrete that we cannot just fine-tune the last parts and get them into place in this Chamber today. I think it would be very good if we could use the knowledge that we have here in the Danish Parliament. After all, in all the parties we have discussed this very much, and since there are a few edges in an otherwise very good bill, it is a pity if we cannot adjust it in place. But we're positive about this. In general, we are happy to invest in people. Well, an investment in people is an investment in welfare. So we can support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104346	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrat, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104350	Thank you. I just need to get it right. Now, of course, we all know that the Enhedslisten will certainly, which they are entitled to, put forward a proposal that they want to get rid of it with the five-week waiting period, and that supports the alternative then, can we hear, but if it ends up with a minority being in favour of it and that it is not voted through, will the alternative subsequently support the original proposal? Does the Alternative agree to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104421	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104426	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104428	However, the alternative does not have the same view as I do, so if you try to get something through that you do not get through, and you still vote no to the overall proposal, even though there are a lot of benefits in what Enhedslisten does, then in fact, also helps to say no to people can get it to 100 percent. In the case of unemployment benefit, can people get through a good adult apprenticeship scheme and that people can get a good flexible 6-week education? Does the rapporteur not agree with me that, if you vote against the original proposal, you cannot at least take credit for helping these people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104504	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104505	Yes, but it is insofar as Enhedslisten's own drama, and I think they should answer that. Well, for us, the little knot isn't big enough to vote no to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104515	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104521	For us in the Radical Left, there's not much drama in this bill. It is a bill that translates parts of the tripartite agreement on a sufficient and qualified workforce in Denmark and on internships. We support the agreement in the Radical Left, as we have already indicated, as part of the conciliation circle on the reform of employment efforts. Generally speaking, it is very good that we have a model whereby we can make broad agreements for which all the social partners take responsibility. It's strong when it works. It is also a good agreement, because it has to help to ensure that there is more qualified labour throughout Denmark, both adequate and qualified. With the agreement, as we see it, there will be much more flexibility in the training boost that can then be obtained here, and indeed also a higher compensation • in fact 100 per cent. In general, we need many more people to want to do so and, in general, throughout their lives. Then there will also be better opportunities for unemployed skilled workers to access the adult apprentice scheme. We're really happy about that, too. So general support for this section from the Radical Left. It in no way solves all challenges of upskilling, continuing training throughout life, but it is a small and really fine step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104716	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104730	Tripartite agreements are a strong construction. It provides solid agreements that can last for a long time when both employers, trade unions and parliament are behind it. This part of the tripartite agreements is in perspective, as education is so absolutely the way forward, both in that more people have to have initial vocational training, but also in that more people have to keep on training throughout their lives. It is high time we made the six weeks of self-chosen training more flexible. It has long been pointless to force employees into a package which did not optimise the benefits they should have from it. This will make it easier to use resources and make it more attractive to enter such a training course. We still find that the economy is weak with a 100 per cent benefit coverage. A few years ago, there was a 125 per cent coverage when someone took part in vocational training courses, but this was what could be achieved, but we really think that one should be more ambitious. We also think it is high time that the period was reduced to six months in order to start an adult apprenticeship course. We do not really think that the Karen period makes much sense, but it is part of the agreement that lies. We wonder why it has not been documented now, for example, how many people there are. would have been affected by it if it had been introduced. We wonder why the two sides have not clarified what the ambition of introducing this was, what the positive effects were expected to be. Nevertheless, it is part of an overall agreement that we think makes very good sense. And it's not like this Tripartite Agreement is a revolution. There is, in fact, a good way to go until we have a labour market that matches the challenges of the future, but it is a step in the right direction and SF supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112104945	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative rapporteur is not here, so that is why it is the Minister for Employment now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105002	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you for the consideration of the draft law here today in the Parliamentary Assembly and, above all, for the many positive and good comments that have fallen here at first reading. After all, the draft law in the field of the Ministry of Employment translates key parts of the tripartite agreement on sufficiently qualified labour throughout Denmark and internships. That is why, as several rapporteurs have done here from the parliamentary platform, I would like to take this opportunity once again to thank the social partners for their cooperation in the context of the tripartite agreement in 2016. There is no doubt that the parties have contributed to the joint finding of solutions to the common challenges that exist here in Denmark. It is a really, very good instrument and it is an instrument that we should all be happy to find. The draft law provides for a more flexible training boost, better access for unemployed skilled workers to the adult apprenticeship scheme and a more flexible system of 6 weeks of job-oriented training. The whole idea of the legislative proposal that has now been put forward is, of course, precisely that which is also part of the agreement that has been reached, namely to support the existence of sufficient skilled labour throughout Denmark. For the government, it's important. And I also note that today, at first reading, a great many parties support the position that is essential, namely that we have a flexible and efficient labour market in which companies have the opportunity to recruit the employees they need. This is absolutely crucial for the future growth that we need in Denmark to make our country richer and thus also create the prosperity that is the basis for our welfare societies. I am also quite prepared to go on and that is also why the government has taken a large number of initiatives in the government base that has been presented to look at how the future labour market should be organized when looking a little further in the future. That is why we are in the process of setting up what we call the Disruption Council, which must also look at what competences in the future should be in the labour market. This does not, of course, concern the legislative proposal we are discussing today, but it is, in fact, just to put it, as several rapporteurs, among others. Mr. Bent Bøgsted, has mentioned that it is also important to discuss things that are outside this tripartite agreement a little further. We will have ample opportunity to do so both in relation to future financial law negotiations, but also, of course, in relation to some of the longer-term challenges. As is also well known, the government will continue with the constructive tripartite cooperation later here in the course of 2017 on adult and continuing education schemes and also other issues mentioned in the government base. So with that, I would like to thank you for your comments and I look forward to a good committee reading where several of the issues mentioned today can of course be discussed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105321	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105325	Thank you. And I would like to ask one of the questions right now, otherwise I will have to do it in writing if the Minister does not have the figures. How many people are expected to be affected by the proposed period of care, and what is the economy in it? What savings might there be in it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105345	I think that if I'm gonna give Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen the best and therefore the most correct answer, I shall reply in writing to that question. I will.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105359	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105426	The debate is open. It's Mrs. Trine Bramsen first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105456	The bill that we are discussing here today is about judgments in default and the preaching and use of digital communications in criminal proceedings. It is extremely resource-intensive and, of course, also a great provocation to the sense of justice when sentenced people do not appear in the courtroom. That is also why, a few years ago, we launched a greater effort to find out what could be done better. The proposal we are discussing here today is about more effective communication, and unfortunately it is not a joke that fax machines still exist and are being used in the courts, which is why it is time for us to modernise practice. The bill contains a number of amendments to the Code of Procedure, the Law on the Enforcement of Punishment and the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Services to be adapted to the Code of Procedure. It acts among other things. on better opportunities for telephone preaching, the use of digital communications in criminal proceedings, the application of judgments in default in criminal proceedings. These are all initiatives which, in my expectation and my hope, will lead to quicker and more flexible and, above all, more effective judicial proceedings and, therefore, to a quicker clarification and closure of the cases, both for the benefit of the victim and also for the sake of our all our sense of justice. As something very important, the draft law provides that injured persons in criminal proceedings on incest are treated as injured persons in cases of violation of Chapter 24 of the Criminal Code on sexual offences by granting access to documents and by publicising criminal proceedings. That would mean that the identity of the wrongdoers would not appear either. This is incredibly important in this kind of case where the victim can be so fragile and not least violated. Furthermore, the draft law also extends the possibility for prison officers to carry means of power, such as pepper sprays and, at the very other end of the proposal, to re-determine the fees of defence and assistance lawyers and appointed lawyers in certain cases. I guess I've been through them, too. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Social Democratic Party support all parts of the proposal, but at the same time we would point out that there is still a need to look at the rules for a slightly different part of what concerns this, namely the rules for judges. That is why it must be a call to the Minister of Justice, when he is here today, to allow us to see the rules through, both in relation to the age limit, but also in relation to the equality of judges in the light of the ministerial response that came last week, which shows that imams from unrecognized religions are not excluded from becoming judges, even if this is the case for those who form part of recognised religions, namely priests, for example. So let us also have a good discussion on this. In any case, we believe very clearly on the part of the Social Democrats that there should be equality in the law; but we support the proposal as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105837	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105842	There's a lot of good things in this bill. There are also some things that I think involve some problems and perhaps also a problem with which Mrs Trine Bramsen agrees with me. Compared to section 4.2. 2.7 in the comments, which concern the wearing of means of power, including pepper spray, in prisons, it is of course the case that the bill means that the Minister of Justice is empowered to lay down rules on the access of prison officers to pepper spray and other means of power. However, just before New Year we had a discussion in this Chamber on L 17, which concerned the use of pepper spray by the police. After all, there was the argument that it was not something for which a minister had to lay down rules. It was something so important that it was something, the Folketing therefore included the bill that the Folketing laid down the framework for how the police use pepper spray. Now that we know, for example. from the Institute for Human Rights and others, that pepper spray is not a mild means of use, but can also have serious effects, for example. If the cornea is damaged, would it not be appropriate to say that it is the Folketing that should define the framework for the use of pepper spray in prisons as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105954	Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112105955	I think we need to know the history in this area a little, because it was the way we had government power that there was a great desire on the part of the prison officers to be allowed to wear pepper spray permanently. Until then it was the case that a pepper spray had to be picked up first in cases where a conflict situation arose. It did, of course, mean that the prison officers could not defend themselves if they were in the current and sudden conflict situation, and that is why we changed it at the time, so that the authorisation was granted. And we really think it makes sense that we now also have a legal basis, so the Minister for Justice has the authority to lay down the framework for it. This is about the security and security of the prison guards, and that's where we're gonna go really far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110043	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110045	Yeah, I understand. The debate on pepper spray is a major debate because it has indeed been shown that the introduction of pepper spray by the police has not led to less use than other means of force, for example. use of a gun. That was actually the intention; it has, in fact, only meant more use of force overall. So pepper spray is not necessarily always the solution, especially since it is not in a situation where we see that, unfortunately, there are many cuts in the area of criminal justice, which everything else just increases the pressure on prison officers. But the question is: should it not be the Folketing that sets the framework for this, just as it was in connection with the adoption of L 17?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110122	To repeat the answer from before: No, we do not think that we in the Folketing should sit and be the ones who judge where it is exactly that these pepper sprays should be stored and exactly in which situations you can walk around and carry them. In fact, we think it is fair that a Minister of Justice has the power to lay down the framework for this. Again: we adopted it ourselves when we were in government, and now we are just getting the legal basis in place in order to ensure that the prison officers can wear pepper sprays. After all, it must be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110155	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110158	I would like to hear the views of the Socialists on the responses that have come from, among other things. Østre Landsret and the Lawyer's Council, Danske Lawyers and Defence Attorneys, who are asking about the fact that the pricing is proposed to be transferred to the Ministry of Justice, which is of course the prosecution's superior. It seems to me, and this is what I would like to ask, that there is something of a concern in principle, even very worrying, about the need for the superiors of the prosecution to set the framework for defence. What is the position of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110238	We see no problem in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110240	Mrs. Zenia Stamp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110242	Perhaps a little more words could be expected when so many concerns are raised by actors who are so widely represented. I am also counting on the Socialists to have respect for the players here who put forward a very fundamental view. Could I not have a few more words on why the Socialists do not see this as a problem, and could I also have a few words on why it is sensible to reduce the hourly rate for defence, even if the courts say that this is certainly not what is needed, because on the contrary they have been underfunded for a period of time? Could I have a few more detailed words on this, both in principle and also on why the time limit for defenders should be reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110323	First of all, we have great faith in the prosecution and we have no reason to believe that they should not be able to manage that part of it. It is clear that there are sudden problems with that, of course we must discuss it. But should we not take it if problems arise? Let us just remember that we have a very transparent and extremely trust-based legal system, not least with regard to the part that is on the public side, and that is why we are confident that this can easily be managed. It should be borne in mind that it also provides a more efficient administration, and if it will ultimately mean that we will have a quicker clarification of matters for the benefit of both the victim and our entire regulatory system, we think this is a perfectly reasonable proposal. Compared with the other, this is a general adjustment, and we have no problems with that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110418	Thank you. There are no more comments, and then it's Mr. Knox. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. It's a good thing you have long legs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110439	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now lays down a number of different things. There are quite a few elements in it that I want to run through. The first part we have fallen over is about the ability of the prison staff to wear pepper sprays. It is, in fact, a proposal that we are very pleased with, because we think it makes good sense, given the pressure on our prison staff, that of course we have the opportunity to wear a pepper spray, we have easier access to it, and we are in fact very much in favour of it. So, of course, we'll follow this closely. I see no problem in what has been put forward in relation to pepper sprays. I hope, as I also said, when we dealt with it in an earlier proposal on the use of pepper spray by the police, that it is an expression of a development that you will have a greater approach to pepper spray, so that it not only becomes the police or our prison officers, but that it is also something that ordinary people can one day own. But it must be in the future. So far, what's on pepper spray is really fine. Then there are proposals for anonymisation in incest cases in relation to the victims. There is no doubt that it is one of the worst crimes that can be committed at all, and that is why it makes very good sense to set up to protect the identity of the victim it has suffered. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party very much support, and it is good that an initiative has been taken in this area. Then, as a result of the Finance Act, it will be put up to look at the counsellors, and that will be done by moving it from the presidents to the Minister of Justice. We think this is really, really fine and, of course, we support the agreement that we ourselves have been involved in in the past. So we can support that element too. Then there is the whole issue of default in the courts. It is, of course, an expiry of the respect package that we concluded last year with the other blue parties, and we are, of course, fully in line with the objectives of the agreements we are making. This is a very important issue, and we have also dealt with it in an earlier parliamentary term, when we tabled resolutions on this particular subject. It is gratifying that we are at least taking a major step in this area, and we are very pleased with that, and we naturally support that part of the agreement. Then it is suggested that the courts take over the preaching work. A very large part of the proposal is about preaching and how to use the new digital opportunities for preaching messages. It's not really because I'm very keen or crazy about digitalisation for the sake of digitalisation, but it can make sense in these very situations, and it's also an offshoot of a clear recommendation that this is the path we need to move if we want to push any cases and, of course, create more efficiency in this area. That is also very sensible, so we can support that too. Another initiative is the initiative on judges, in which it is proposed that judges should not be involved in criminal proceedings where the defendant is at most at risk of a fine. We have not yet taken up our position on this question, because we need to ask some sensitive questions in relation to what is stated in the comments, which seem a little thin, so we need to look at this in committee. However, in addition to one point, we support the proposal, which in many ways makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110827	Sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110833	My question is about item. 2.8 in the comments on fees in criminal proceedings. This follows on from what Mrs Zenia Stampe asked Mrs Trine Bramsen earlier. Because there has been a backlog on the lawyer's office and, at the same time, a saving is being made on lawyers' assistants, there is a danger that a step will be taken in the direction of some kind of legal certainty for those who have money and another legal certainty for those who do not have money. Unfortunately, being a defence lawyer today is much less paid than being a lawyer in other areas. Now the Danish People's Party is a party that wants to protect the little man in society, at least I have heard that many times. So is it not worrying that here we are actually seeing a step towards a legal situation which will mean that those who have money will have better legal certainty than those who do not have money and will, as such, have less legal certainty?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110940	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112110941	Sir. Rune Lund is right that the Danish People's Party is the small man's party. But we are also protecting the small man's tax money, because we have seen a somewhat sharp increase in the cost of this particular area. And it is quite fine to work to calm them down and make sure to go a little further on the liter and that it is taken care of, including in that area. I think that is very commendable. But, of course, we are following developments very closely in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111010	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111012	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Peter Kofod Poulsen at least indicates that the Danish People's Party will follow developments in this area. As far as I am concerned, there is no doubt that there is a backlog in defence lawyers, that is, that they are paid lower than other lawyers. And if you look at a real saving in this area, that would mean less legal certainty. I think it is a problem if we have a society where some people are simply given less legal certainty because there are not as many good lawyers who would like to be defence lawyers for those people, while people with a lot of money then, contrary to that, will have much better opportunities to bring their case to justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111051	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111052	As I said, we are following developments very closely. Now, I'm not sure it looks as gloomy as Mr. Rune Lund is setting up here. I can't imagine. But I have to say that these are quite drastic developments in relation to the price increase here, and I think it is quite fair, of course, to work to calm it down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111112	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen as rapporteur for the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111122	The draft law here, as other rapporteurs have said today, is a mixture of many different things, and we could go into each individual point. However, I can agree with the factual review that my colleagues have carried out in the past. That is why Parliament will actually be spared a factual and detailed examination of the individual points of the proposal, but will stick to a few of the more important ones. What has not been mentioned so much, but which is quite essential, is the relationship between default sentences in criminal proceedings, that is, the situation where the defendant does not appear. It is a situation which in practice plagues the courts to a greater or lesser extent in different places, and it therefore has the importance that very many cases must be postponed, the defendants appear. This means that the judge and secretary and prosecutor and the victim, the defender and whoever else is involved are wasting their time, and the common name for it all is that they are wasting their time on the account of the state. So it is a really, really good idea to change this, and the way we change it is that the matter can now be brought to the main debate, despite the fact that the defendant is not present. We are raising the threshold for the prosecution's claim from three months to six months, so now there are far more cases that can come under this rule, after which, as I said, they can be carried out in the absence of the defendants. But let me just stress one thing, and that is that it remains conditional on the usual presentation of evidence. Well, the judge will hopefully interrogate witnesses and make sure that there is full evidence that the defendant can be judged. The judge must do so, and that is also stated in the observations. So there is no change in that. But the matter does not necessarily have to be postponed because the defendant has not appeared. So far as that relationship is concerned. We can then say in this context that the rules on appeals and re-election are also being changed. It will be a little technical, but in substance it will be the case that the person who has been convicted of non-compliance in such criminal proceedings will not be able to have a prison sentence reinstated, but will be able to appeal to the Court of Justice. He or she is guaranteed two treatments, and that is very fine. And if it is only a small fine which cannot be appealed to the Land Court, then you have the opportunity to reopen the case, so that again two readings. I think that is quite excellent. Preaching in criminal matters is now taking place through the courts in the future, and it will release a whole lot of police resources, and this will create a much faster review. Perhaps we should also say that Denmark is actually the second fastest country in Europe, with 47 days on average, to carry out criminal proceedings. We can be very proud of that. We are only surpassed by one country, and that is Russia. I have no idea that we should continue to compete, I would say. But I would still be delighted if we could go further down. So the preaching work becomes easier and more effective. A message will be sent to the recipient's e-Boks and, if it is opened, it is deemed to have arrived. If it is not opened, the person will be called by the court, and if this is not possible, preaching will take place in an old - fashioned way. I think that is quite, quite reassuring. Another matter which has attracted attention, not least among my colleagues from defence lawyers, is the appointment of defence lawyers. And now, to not get shot in the shoes later by the press or anyone else, let me already confess that every Monday I spend my time as an appointed defense attorney, so now there should be no false weights in the scales. Perhaps this should mean that I was standing here and rejecting this reduction, but I do not. I can confirm that what is happening here under the law is that the hourly rate is regulated. It was precisely the criticism that came from the national courts that changed it, so it is not the indicative rates at different stages of criminal proceedings that change. The courts and the presidents of the High Court are still allowed to have their hands and their throats crossed. But as I said, it's the hourly rate that's regulated with these 5.8%. In the downward direction. In order to predetermine the questions, I can say that there will be no shortage of defence lawyers after all. It is a desirable job, and when a so-called benefice is thrown up, a lot of people are looking for it. And I don't believe you get 5.8%. less justice for that reason. With those words, I can say that the Left supports the bill in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111630	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then it's mr. Rune Lund. And that is not a brief comment, so it is as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112111654	This bill, like many other legislative proposals in the field of justice, consists of a large number of things, some of which we can support and some of which we cannot support. That the courts take over the preaching work because of it. We think that economies of scale are sensible. Digital preaching also makes sense, that is the way to go. However, there is one comment from the Data Protection Agency which believes that there is no legal basis in the Personal Data Act for an automatic message to be sent that the service has been received if you go in and click on the message in your e-Boks. And I think that is a question that needs to be clarified. Because is there a technical solution to that? Well, we all know that when we receive emails in our mail program, there is a feature where you can confirm the receipt of an email. So are there some technical things that can be done so that the Personal Data Act is respected? I think it could be worth drilling in. In addition, however, it is certainly something that is the future and in which there are opportunities, and I also think it has been taken into account that there are, of course, citizens, socially vulnerable and people on the edge of society who will then have to be reached in other ways. However, digitalisation is, of course, a way to go as long as it is taken care of that the people who cannot take advantage of the digital opportunities also get the service. The same applies to telephone preaching, and we can also support the expansions that are there. The same applies to paragraph 2.3 on the use of digital communications in criminal justice, so that writing in criminal proceedings does not prevent the use of digital communications. This is definitely the right way to go. There are some consultation responses which also point out that if you are a defence lawyer and have to take care of your client's interests, for example when you are looking after your client's interests. If we are visiting a prison, then there will be fewer and fewer opportunities in prisons, for example. to take the telephone with and use digital aids at all. So there are some issues there that we need to deal with. As society becomes more digitised, we can see that in prisons it is the case that some restrictions are made, for example. because people want to limit the possibility that people can use mobile phones in different contexts. This is certainly a challenge on which we need to focus our attention. Then there is the part about increasing the use of default sentences. And I have to say that there we are beginning to see the proposal as problematic. As the Lawyers' Council states in its hearing answer, we agree that waste of resources should, of course, be prevented, but we doubt that increasing the use of judgments in default is the way forward. And we do not have the impression that the current rules are a restriction, and we do not think it is appropriate to restrict the possibilities for the courts to deal specifically with situations where individual and concrete relationships imply a flexible approach. It is our experience that the courts are fully able to balance the concerns involved, including the consideration of the wrongdoer. We must also look at the fact that the Danish Parliament has adopted rules on the use of digital communication, i.e. memory text messages for people who are going to serve. In other words, this kind of digital solution will also contribute to the emergence of more people. The problem is not very big either. At least there is a hearing answer from the Institute for Human Rights which shows that for a period of five weeks, according to an investigation by the Court's Board of Justice, there were reframed up to 1,400 hearings, and out of them there were 178 which were reframed because of the defendants' absence for various reasons. It is, of course, a certain percentage which cannot be overlooked, but it is clear that there are other reasons why court hearings are being reframed in the judicial system today. For the principle of this is that you can be sentenced to a sentence and now also a prison sentence for up to one year, even if you have not been present in the courtroom. And that is of course problematic from the point of view of legal policy. Then there is paragraph 2.5, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen also referred to the limitation of the use of judges, i.e. only if there is a penalty involved. We also have some follow-up questions on which we would like to look during the committee's reading. Then there is paragraph 2.6 on the anonymisation of the identity of wrongdoers, so that a victim of incest also receives the same protection as a victim of sexual crimes in relation to access to documents and publicity of criminal proceedings. We support that. Then there's point 2.7, that's the one with pepper spray. We are critical of this and I will refer to the brief remarks I made earlier in the debate here. We also think that it is a problem, in relation to the fixing of fees for defenders, that the sagas will be reduced and that there will be a movement towards a situation where there will be less legal certainty for people with lower incomes than those with high incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112257	Thank you. Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112300	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I was a little curious about the point that Mr. Rune Lund mentioned, in relation to judges. Given how many different initiatives there are in the proposal itself, there is not always so much time to elaborate on the platform, so I would like to know whether Mr. Rune Lund wanted to elaborate on that point of view. Because it might sound as if we could actually agree with Enhedslisten for one of the eight elements in some of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112328	That's point 2.5. I have read it several times, and it is a little unclear to me exactly what the effect of it will be and exactly in which cases it will have a meaning. After all, if we are to go in and restrict the use of judges, there may be an idea in it if it does not make sense or if it is a waste of resources. But restricting the use of judges is, after all, an equal deterioration in our legal system. For the use of judges in our legal system means that ordinary people come in and have a meaning, in terms of how to judge and, if so, what the punishment should be. So a restriction on the use of ordinary people in our legal system seems to me to be problematic, which is why I think it is worth drilling more. Then it is true that it is very difficult, especially in the area of justice, here in the Danish Parliament to get through all the many important points that lie in the legislative proposals, because there are incredibly many legislative proposals, and I really think that is a problem in principle that we should address. And it is really difficult to go through everything within the allotted speaking time of five minutes. Perhaps this is a matter for the Bureau.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112440	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112444	I don't need any more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112449	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112456	The draft law here entails a number of rationalisations in the administration of justice in order to make better use of the resources of the police, the prosecution and the courts. It is basically sensible to introduce further use of digital solutions and the necessary precautions have been taken to ensure legal certainty when courts communicate digitally with citizens. In addition, victims of incest anonymity shall be ensured so that their identity is not disclosed through access to documents and through publicity of criminal proceedings. It is only fair that victims of incest should be guaranteed the same anonymity as victims of other sexual crimes. Finally, it is possible for the Minister of Justice to allow prison officers to spray pepper in the closed prisons, in the closed prisons and in the prisons. Unfortunately, this is necessary in the light of increasing, brutal and unacceptable behaviour towards the prison officers who are doing hard work and carrying out an important task for all of us. All in all, a number of, a total of eight, changes supported by the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112616	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment from Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112621	I would really like to see a deepening of the Liberal Alliance's position on the element of the draft law which deals with judgments in default, so that in future the courts will have to pass a judgment in default if the defendant does not appear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112636	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112637	I agree that there may be some dilemmas on this issue, but when we have a legal system, which I know the alternative also concerns us when we have solid judicial systems and people who are accused of something and who know, sometimes several times, that the system is missing from court proceedings, then I think it is fair that the judicial system should be able to deal with it in a fair way, especially with the wrongdoers and, of course, with others involved in legal proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112709	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112710	I fully agree that this opportunity must be there. What's in this bill is just that we take the authority away from the courts to judge for themselves whether they will pass a verdict or not. And so it can be said that we are precisely depriving our courts of an authority which I sense the Liberal Alliance agrees with us in the alternative in is extremely important, namely that we have the independent body which takes these decisions on professional practice. So it is more in relation to that: whether the Liberal Alliance thinks it is a positive development that we are now taking that authority away from the courts and putting it into, it can be said, the Ministry, in saying that the courts must:
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112756	It is very much a question of interpretation. It is true that we can say, as the questioner does, that we are depriving the courts of authority. It can also be said that with this we take responsibility for ensuring that there is the respectful dealings with the judicial system that I think there should be. So it's a question of words. However, this is certainly something that we will be following on a regular basis, and I fully agree with the legal dilemmas that exist in it. However, I think that with the way in which the draft law is drafted, it strikes a very fine balance, and I think it is okay that we can go in and take responsibility for dealing with it when we see that there is a problem with the total legal system and, in particular, with the wrongdoers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112840	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112112855	Thank you. As some of the rapporteurs have mentioned so far, this draft law is made up of various elements, and in the alternative we feel in the same way as some of the other parties, namely that there are elements that we can clearly support, and then there are elements that we consider to be quite problematic. A uniquely positive element in this bill is, of course, that the bill will equate incestores, i.e. people who have been subjected to incest, with those who have been raped, with access to documents and publicity. It is clear that this is a very clear and unambiguous improvement in relation to the current legislation. We are also clearly positive about the levels of digitalisation. There is no doubt that our legal system needs to be shaken up a little in relation to the opportunities in digitalisation and that we have not followed our legal system in the same way as we are in other areas of society. That is why we are clearly in favour of making use of the opportunities for digitisation. However, a certain tolerance is also needed for those citizens in our society who may not be following digital development in the same way, and here we are thinking in particular of the fact that, of course, there are socially vulnerable people who do not use digital instruments and who do not have an e-Boks. And it is possible for them, in relation to the entire public system, to renounce communication via e-Boks. Of course, it must continue to be, but perhaps one should consider, in connection with the digitalisation of the service, that the socially vulnerable are told that it is now under e-Boks and that an extra effort should be made by the system to reach those who have renounced e-Boks. I also think it is important to follow up on the practice experience with digitalisation, because it is quite important that we do not keep anyone from getting the necessary information because for some reason they do not get a look at their e-mails or e-Boks. Then there are also some other problematic elements in the bill. Some of the other rapporteurs have mentioned this, and I also mentioned it in my question to the Liberal Alliance. We think it is problematic in relation to this element of the fact that the courts are going to have to recognise that, and I would like to stress that there are challenges with some defendants not attending their trials. However, I would like to question the scale of these challenges. In other words, the Institute for Human Rights mentions the figures in their hearing answer, and this saying that it is such a general trend that many defendants are fouling our justice system by not showing up, may have to be slightly nuanced. For the figures show that out of 4,000-6,000 hearings in all the town courts, the national courts and the Greenland National Court there were 178 who were postponed because no one showed up. So it's just a call for a little nuance. However, it is clear that the fundamental problem with the element of the draft law is that we are depriving the courts of authority in relation to being those who judge whether or not a judgment should be given in default, and we think that in principle is really problematic. There is no doubt that we could do something to encourage the courts to maybe, in several cases, pass judgment in default. I really do not have a problem with that, but I think it is a really big problem that we are imposing on the courts that they should be left with the courts in the future. And that is something that both the Council of Lawyers and the Institute of Human Rights point out in their hearing response. It may be a major problem of legal certainty for the individual if there are some reasons why one has not stayed, which may not be covered by what is written here in the draft law. So that element seems to us to be very problematic. The last thing I want to mention is the fixing of the fee. It is quite true, as Mrs Bramsen said in her rapporteur's speech, that in Denmark we have a legal system which we can indeed rely on to a great extent. I am actually very confident about the legal system in Denmark; I am extremely confident about the courts we have. That is precisely why we must maintain the independence that lies there, and when we start to say that it is the Ministry that has to set the fees for defence lawyers, which are the Ministry's own, one might say, opponents in the judicial system, then we have a problem of principle, because then we start mixing apples and pears and bananas together. And we don't think you should. So exactly the confidence we have in our legal system is, of course, that we have found a way of organizing it in such a way that it is the independent authority that sets the fee for defence lawyers, and it must continue to be so. So we think that is a problem of principle. I will say no more: my speaking time has now expired. So with that I can just say that because of the fact that there are these different elements, of which we can support some and not support others, we cannot support the legislative proposal in its entirety.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112113428	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112113433	It is, of course, a mixed country trade, and so may I not start by calling on the Ministry of Justice and the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Justice to divide this type of proposal a tiny bit more. This proposal contains seven proposals, and it is not, of course, because we would like to sit here for perhaps seven hours if we made a bill per. point, but one might consider lumping them together a little according to the theme. There could be something that was about digitalization, that is, as an example of a lump. I think it is going to be a rather strange debate we have here in the Folketing, where there is a very short time for some rather fundamental discussions. That must be the general comment, but I will also give a rapporteur's speech, as I usually do, in which I say that there is something we can support, something we are more doubtful about and something we are opposed to. We can support everything about digitalisation, digital service, telephone service, digital communication in criminal justice. But we also see problems in it. Clearly, it is a problem, then, that there has been a restriction of the defence's access to computer and iPad, i.e. electronic devices, in prisons. These are some specific problems that I hope the Minister of Justice will resolve. Then, of course, we can also support the part that is about comparing the wrongdoers in criminal proceedings about incest with the wrongdoers in cases of sex crimes. Then there is what we are doubtful about or directly against. One thing is the increased use of judgments by default, not only increased use, but also automation, so to speak, in other words the removal of the decision from the judges and making it a mandatory requirement. We don't like that. Nor do we do so when it comes to the limitation of the resumption of a case and the introduction of access to appeal, which is more troublesome. We are very critical of this, as is the increased use of pepper spray as part of ordinary personal equipment. We are not at all opposed to using pepper spray in some cases. This is the last option, and it is sometimes necessary. However, we think it is a slightly loose mandate that we give to the Minister of Justice on an issue that is so important. We simply think that there is too little meat to be seriously safe in giving that mandate. The last thing we are very critical of is to move this tariff from the Presidents of the Court of Justice to the Ministry of Justice, which is the head of the prosecution authorities, that is to say the defence counterpart in the courtroom. We think this is highly problematic. So in those words, the conclusion cannot be different from that we cannot support the overall proposal. If the Minister were prepared to divide it into a number of different lumps and pieces, we would probably be able to vote in favour of some of it, but we cannot support the package as a whole. I therefore call for a future attempt to scissor these big mixed country traders into more coherent parts for the sake of democratic treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112113807	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112113819	I feel the same way as my colleagues from the Radical Left, and as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur said, this is a very mixed country trade, which is why it would be good to divide it. A lot has already been said about the various elements, so I will just quickly go through what we from the SF think about the individual parts. On paragraphs 2.1 and 2.2 of the comments on service in criminal proceedings, I would say that we think this is excellent. It works badly, and many do not, so binding preaching will be very good. We are also positive about electronic communications, that is point 2.3. I am sure the Minister will also be aware of the consultation answers that have been given, with a little hint that we should also remember that many people are still having a hard time in the digital age. But it is good to be able to make things smarter as long as you take into account those who are also having a hard time with it. I would like to say that I find it deeply insulting to the sense of justice when people fail to understand what to say, unreasonable reasons. It's expensive, too. That is why we in the SF think that no-one's judgment can be good, but it must be based on a concrete assessment and we must not deprive the courts of that assessment. So we do not have a problem with default sentences in any case, but we do not think that this is something that should be automated. It must be the courts as the authority that makes that assessment. So we cannot support that. As far as judges are concerned, it is a good thing that they should not be involved in trivial matters, and if matters develop, they will end up in the court of law by a jury, so we can support that too. One of the things that is really, really good in this bill... what several people have mentioned... is the anonymization of incestofre. It's about time. As some speakers have said, it can of course be a bit difficult in relation to the family relationships that are naturally in incest cases, but we think it is very good that it is now being equated. In relation to pepper spray in prisons, I would like to say that the prison association itself has asked for it. It is also one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, and we have an obligation to protect them. But I don't want it to be a sleeping pillow. Increased use of force does not solve the massive problems of overcrowding of negatively strong prisoners in prisons, and I also hope that the Minister will recognise that this in itself does not solve the whole problem or the attacks we have seen outside the prisons. We recognise the responses of the Institute for Human Rights and others who have problematized the fact that there is pepper spray as common equipment in prisons, and then I think that the bill is too vague when there is something about pepper spray and other means of force. The Ministry of Justice writes in the answer that it is not intended to be extended to other means of force, because this is about pepper spray, but then you have to write it. Because that opens the way for it to become all sorts of other means of force. In order for us to be able to support that part about pepper spray as standard equipment, we need a little more language. We think there is a little more language missing on how it should be used, in what situations and by which groups of prison guards. Of course, with regard to the regulation of tariffs, you may think that many lawyers have an extremely high hourly rate, but that is the way it is, and the fees that the defence lawyers get just make us have a problem recruiting them. In addition, if it is to be moved over to the Ministry to be further put down, we simply think it is a problem. We cannot support that part of it: either that it is reduced or that it is taken from the courts. The last two points I would like to raise are the fact that the Council of Lawyers lacks an assessment of the compatibility of the proposal with the European Convention on Human Rights. In general terms, and especially in this area, I think it should be natural that, while screening a bill for administrative consequences and financial consequences, it should also be screened for legal consequences. It is strange that we have a number of points that the Ministry's officials put 'yes' or 'no' on whether it is going to cost private people, public opinion, administrative consequences, relations with EU law, etc., but not on what this bill means for legal certainty. That is why I also had a proposal a year ago that, in the form developed in relation to legislative proposals, we should also have an assessment of the legislative proposal with regard to legal certainty. I would just like to repeat that message; I think that would be fine. The very last thing is that it is very exciting what has become of the secret searches. There's a single sentence on the rear side that says it's deleted. Perhaps the Minister could tell us why it has gone out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112114405	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112114411	There are two main objectives of the bill. The first is to ensure that criminal proceedings function as effectively as possible, and the second is to maintain respect for the judicial system. As several rapporteurs have mentioned, the draft law contains a number of legislative changes that adapt and simplify parts of criminal justice so that we can make better use of the time and timing of police, courts and prosecutions. This applies, in particular, to the proposal to make it possible to use digital communication more and more in criminal proceedings and also to move the preaching work from the police to the courts. The draft law also makes it possible to make judgments in default, because unfortunately, in far too many criminal cases, we find that cases must be postponed or reframed because people do not show up, and that is bad for the wrongdoer, for the judge, for the defender, for the prosecutor, etc. and so on, and that is also going to drag the case out, and we cannot be familiar with that. The proposal also provides for the possibility for prison officers to carry pepper sprays. We think that is sensible. There have been several cases where there have been very, very serious attacks on prison officers. Today they have to go to a depot to get pepper spray. From now on, they will be allowed to carry it around, and we think that is sensible. All in all, this is a sensible legislative proposal that we in the Conservative People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112114611	I would like to thank the rapporteur. It's the minister's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112114624	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteurs for their statements. I note that everything else seems to represent a majority in favour of this bill being adopted, and I fully agree that there are some things that will of course need to be discussed in greater detail in committee. It is crucial for me as Minister of Justice that we take a firm stand against crime, so that the Danes can be safe on the street and in their homes, and at the same time it is important that criminal proceedings are carried out as soon as possible, for the sake that victims of crime can move forward with their lives and to maintain respect for law enforcement. That is why we must constantly focus on ensuring the best possible framework for effective criminal prosecution, and this legislative proposal is basically aimed at ensuring that the treatment of criminal proceedings functions as effectively as possible in a legally sound manner. In addition, it aims to maintain respect for the judicial system. The draft law therefore contains a number of legislative amendments which adapt and simplify parts of criminal justice, including: with a view to ensuring respect for the judiciary and appropriate use of the resources of the police, prosecution and courts and the organisation of the proceedings. This is particularly true of proposals to make it possible to use digital communication more and more in criminal justice and the proposal to move the preaching work from the police to the courts. In addition, there are proposals for non-judgments. Unfortunately, we find that far too many criminal proceedings must be postponed or reframed because the defendant does not attend the hearing. That is not fair to the wrongdoers, and it is not fair to the witnesses who have been summoned or to the judge, prosecutor and lawyer who has spent time preparing for the case, and the criminal proceedings take place unnecessarily. That is why the government is also proposing a change to the rules on default sentences. The amendments require a judgment to be given in default in the future if the prosecution so requests and the conditions for giving judgment in default are fulfilled. This is only fair and, in the view of the government, is not a matter of legal certainty or concern in relation to our obligations. In addition, the proposal contains a number of other amendments to the Code of Procedure, which I do not wish to go into in detail here and now. I would, however, like to make a few brief comments on the proposal, which allows prison officers to wear pepper sprays as part of ordinary equipment. Unfortunately, lately, we have seen more and more serious assaults on prison officers. We must respond to that. Prison officers, for example. closed prisons, where the clientele is hardest, must have the opportunity to react quickly and effectively in a violent conflict situation, and it is inappropriate here that pepper spray should only be dispensed from a depot when such a situation arises. It is proposed that it should be possible for prison officers to wear pepper spray as part of ordinary equipment. That is why this proposal is included. This proposal is not about the rules for the use of pepper spray, but just about the fact that the prison officers have the opportunity to wear it. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their contributions. I look forward to further consideration here in the Danish Parliament and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may arise during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115003	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115006	It's about pepper spray. Today it is the case that the Minister of Justice can lay down rules on the application, but what this bill means is that in future, too, the Minister of Justice will be able to lay down rules on the use of means of power, including, among other things: pepper spray. However, it would not be more appropriate if the framework of it were to be regulated not by an order from the Minister, but by legislation in the Folketing, as we do, for example. Did when we had the treatment of L 17? And then the Minister for Justice was not the Minister for Justice, but he was the rapporteur and said at first reading that it was common sense that it was regulated directly in the law, and that was the law of the police. So my question would actually be: is it not equally common sense in this area to regulate it in the law? That's one. And the second is that it not only concerns pepper spray, but in fact also concerns other non-defined means of power, and is it not an additional argument that this is something that should be regulated by law and not by means of a decree?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115120	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115121	I think there is a big difference between whether it is about having a means of power and whether it is about where to use it. So here we have a situation where we need for a period of time that the officers in a closed prison have it and can carry it, and then that is something the Minister of Justice can say yes to. If it was about how to use a pepper spray, as you do with the police, i.e. what the rules of using it are, then of course I think it belongs to us to adopt it in the Folketing. But this is all about being able to say: yes, it's okay, now you can use pepper spray. It's needed. The prison officers in a closed prison need it for security reasons. These are not the rules of application, this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115209	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115210	Okay. But is the answer to be that the Minister for Justice is open to the fact that the use of pepper spray is also something that must be regulated by the law in the future, and not, as it is today, something that can be regulated by the Minister in a decree?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115227	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115228	I mean, the proposal here is just that you have to wear it. How to use it and in what situations you use it is a completely different discussion. After all, this is just a discussion that you can say yes to them having it at all. I therefore believe that everyone in here knows that we have some challenges in our prisons, and we will come back to that later this year, because it is not done with this. We have a lot to talk about when it comes to our prisons, and I hope we will have a broad majority in the Folketing on this. It takes more than that. But it is also a question of safety for employees and the possibility of wearing pepper sprays.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115259	Thank you. And then it is Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, short remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115304	Thank you. I'm also hearing like Mr. Simpson. Rune Lund, that the Minister, also on the basis of the Minister's earlier statements when the Minister was rapporteur, is open to the fact that we then regulate it in the law, so it is the Folketing that decides it. That is also one of the points raised by some of the hearings, among others. The Institute for Human Rights that it should be defined in the law itself. I am actually told that the Minister is open to that, and we can then take it in committee. However, I would like to ask a question as to why the amendment to section 799 of the Code of Procedure on secret search has been removed from the entire legal complex.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115340	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115342	It is true that it says that the proposal to extend police access to secret searches to cover serious cases of doping and certain serious cases of financial crime is not included in the draft law here. This is, of course, due to a consideration that, when extending the use of interventions such as the one we are discussing here, we are thinking of extending the use of interventions. Secret searches, then you have to consider it particularly carefully and also consider whether it belongs in a case such as this one, where you bring together a great many areas. Some would say that these are slightly smaller things, but of course they are not. But this is very much a joint legislative proposal, and there we may feel that we are now going to look at a biker gang package and intensify the fight there, and there it would perhaps be more natural to look at what tools are needed for the police in that fight, including secret searches. So it is such an assessment of when it is that the system should be extended, when it should be, and that is why it has been taken out here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115448	Thank you. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115449	I fully agree with the Minister that this is a major and important fundamental discussion which does not belong in a pile of legislative proposals or a pile of proposals like this. This can of course be said in principle in a number of areas where, for pragmatic reasons, we bring together several things in one legislative proposal, but it also has some consequences, among others. That means that we rapporteurs often ask for something to be split up. I also believe that the Minister, as rapporteur, has seen that there are parts that can be supported and parts that cannot be supported. The rapporteur for legal policy in the Left was also very critical of this particular proposal and agrees that it should be taken independently because of its fundamental scope.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115537	Yes, we can then confirm each other in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112115541	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. We are waiting with the last item on the agenda until 1 p.m. 13.00 after lunch.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130009	The sitting is resumed. If the rapporteur of the Left wishes to pay a little attention, the rapporteur of the Left may have the opportunity to begin here. We are missing the Socialist rapporteur right now when he was picking up papers. Excuse me, sir. Martin Henriksen now. Respect for the size of the lot. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130105	Thank you for that, President. We are happy to give way to the left some other time, if that is to be the case, that is not the case. Thank you for the floor. The proposal we are discussing is primarily about transferring competences from the Ministry to a number of boards and boards, and we find this in the Danish People's Party for several reasons is problematic. We believe, among other things, that it is wrong for the government to transfer more competences to the Refugee Board with the bill. The Danish People's Party does not support the strengthening of the Refugee Board; in fact, we want to abolish the name. It is also worth mentioning that the rules of the Aliens Act have not been put into effect for the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The Foreigners' Board's decision on visas to the Faroe Islands and Greenland will therefore not be subject to a complaint to the Foreigners' Board, which the government is proposing for a number of cases. These cases will continue to be dealt with by the Ministry in accordance with the rules which now apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. This creates different rules within the Kingdom community, which could be avoided by maintaining existing legislation. Because differences are now being made within the Kingdom Community, in a number of cases where both Schengen visas and visas have been applied for to the Faroe Islands and Greenland, the Foreigners' Board will be required to provide guidance on the right of appeal to the Foreigners' Board concerning the part of the decision concerning the application for Schengen visas and on the right of appeal to the Ministry concerning the part of the decision concerning the application for a visa to the Faroe Islands and Greenland. We in the Danish People's Party find this a mess, and we can avoid it by maintaining the current rules in this area. In relation to the other elements of the draft law, we do not think that there is any problem with cases in the field of foreigners being subject in some cases to a complaint to the Ministry or to the Minister. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that there is a need for more political governance of the area of foreigners and not less, which is why we see no reason to move the right of appeal to a number of boards and boards. In fact, we in the Danish People's Party would like a work to be started which would result in the general abolition or reduction of the right of appeal in the field of aliens, so that the general rule would be that the decision taken at first instance is a final decision, and then, in exceptional cases, a minister, possibly on the recommendation of a parliamentary committee, should be able to reverse a decision taken at first instance. As I read the draft law, even new forms of redress are being created in the field of foreigners, which is moving in the wrong direction. We will also be asking about this in the course of the committee procedure. Among other things: We would like to know what additional costs are involved in extending the right of appeal in a number of areas. However, there are also a few positive elements in the draft law, but as things stand at present, it becomes a no from here to the overall draft law, as overall it is moving in the wrong direction. The bill weakens the political governance of the territory of foreigners. In the Danish People's Party we want fewer redress opportunities, not more, and we want more political governance and not less. That's it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130346	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we go back to the rapporteur, and then we let the Socialists have the floor, and that is Mr Beazley. Mattias Tesfaye, who has now obtained his papers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130403	Thank you. We welcome the proposal. We are in favour of strict foreign policy, but we are also in favour of a proper foreign policy. With this bill, assignments are moving from the Ministry to the more independent agencies... the Refugee Board and the Aliens' Board. It creates more clarity and removes suspicion of political interference in individual cases. In addition, the proposal contains a number of other adjustments to the legislation, such as: As a result, the possibility of appealing against a decision is extended in some cases. Denmark cannot handle an influx that we saw particularly in 2015. That's way too many. This will push the Danish welfare community both economically and culturally, and that is why we have supported the tightenings in the Aliens Act, which has been discussed here in the Danish Parliament. We have even proposed further tightenings and had them adopted together with the SF and the Danish People's Party, and this together with other initiatives has all meant that the influx has decreased sharply. However, when we tighten for access to Denmark when we decide to be more strict in issuing new residence permits, it is also important that the authorities behind the decisions make their decisions on the basis of well thought-out procedures that both Danes and foreigners can understand. This bill creates a little more clarity, a little more political arm's length, and it's positive. At the same time, it is important for the Social Democratic Party to state that, although individual cases in the media may be a testament to the minister in office at any time, we also have a couple in our own parliamentary group who can confirm that at the same time, in several cases, they have proved to be useful in focusing on the legislation and how it is administered. This is among other things. on the basis of such individual cases that we will be dealing with a proposal for changes to the rules on residence permits before too long. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party, in the committee procedure, would like to stress that we consider it important that members of parliament can go into specific cases if they find that the legislation is not properly administered; it is part of the normal work of the Folketing. It is with the comments that we look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130610	We thank the rapporteur. No one has asked for brief comments. Then we reached Mr. Marcus Knuth from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130617	Thank you, President. I don't see any reason to repeat the core of this bill. The two previous rapporteurs have just done so. The cases, which the two boards, the Refugee Board and the Foreigners' Board, will take over from the Ministry, are heavily leaning on the cases which the two boards are already dealing with today. The transfer allows the department to focus on what is the Ministry's real core task, namely ministerial and parliamentary service, and then it is appropriate that the handling of the same type of cases is not on too many different desks. This ensures continuity of decisions, which is ultimately a good thing. The Left believes that the draft law here contains some really sensible changes that act as a sort of clean-up in the tasks that lie in this area. When we have bodies such as the Refugee Board and the Foreigners' Board, we might as well use the competences that lie there. Then I know that there is a concern that this might give rise to an increased right of appeal. I am not so worried about this, not least in view of the fact that we have recently improved the composition of the Refugee Board. That is why the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130727	We thank the rapporteur. The next one that has emerged is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130737	I always try to show up in the Assembly Hall. Legal certainty in the field of foreigners is not always ideal, I think. You can, for example. Fear that the quality of the Refugee Board's decisions falls with the decision of a majority in the Danish Parliament last month that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Danish Refugee Aid no longer have to nominate members of the Refugee Board. Having said that, however, this draft law we are discussing today represents progress, namely the transfer of competence in complaints from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to the Refugee and Foreign Affairs Boards respectively. This applies, among other things, to: cases of unaccompanied minors, visa cases and a number of other cases. Already with the Aliens Act of 1983, complaints in asylum cases were removed from the Minister's table and placed in the new independent judicial body, the Refugee Board. The idea supports Enhedslisten, just as we supported in 2012 that a number of other complaints in the field of aliens were removed from the Ministry and placed in the newly created Foreigners' Board. If we want to avoid human fates becoming a football for the media and politicians, I think it is a good idea to put the specific decisions in independent bodies. And if you then come to the conclusion that a single case shows that the law is wrong, you have to change the law. So we support the main thrust of this bill. We can then discuss whether the Refugee Board and the Foreign Affairs Board have sufficient resources and whether, in future, too many of the complaints will have to be decided by the President alone or on a purely written basis, but, overall, we think that it is a step forward to place more complaints in the lists. That is why we can support this proposal as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130937	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112130945	Thank you. As has been mentioned in the previous rapporteur's speeches, this is a legislative proposal which moves a number of complaints from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to the Refugee Board and the Foreign Affairs Board respectively. We in the Liberal Alliance also think that this makes a great deal of sense. This provides clarity, and we are also in favour of the political arm's length arm's-length. Because that does not mean that, as a politician, you cannot deal with individual cases and change the law if you think that the law is wrong, but, overall, we believe that this strengthens legal certainty. So in the Liberal Alliance, we also agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131020	Thank you. Then we have reached Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131031	Thank you. As the other rapporteurs have also mentioned, we are dealing here with the transfer of tasks from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to the Refugee and Foreign Affairs Board. In the alternative, we are in line with most of the consultation answers, which say that the proposal in general will strengthen legal certainty, and we think this is really important because several of the foreign law decisions will be taken by independent judicial bodies, where professionalism is already based, rather than being decided administratively by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. We also welcome the establishment of a right of appeal in the Foreign Affairs Board for certain cases dealt with at first instance by the International Recruitment and Integration Agency. I think it is equally important to point out that the Foreigners' Board does not itself consider it in accordance with its general competence that it should have several of the transfers of specific complaints proposed here. I have taken note of the reply of the Ministry, but I think that is one of the things that it is important to continue working on in committee. Because it is quite clear that when we do this, it is important that there is both focus on the fact that competences are there and indeed also resources. So that is one of the things I want to focus on in committee. But overall, we are in the alternative positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131201	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then we have reached Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131210	Thank you very much for the floor, President. We also support this bill by the Radical Left. We are very pleased that cases have been added to the independent boards, the Aliens' Board and the Refugee Board. The more transparent the rules are, the more clear and transparent the remedies there are, the better for legal certainty, and the arm's length of the complaint processing is a good idea, because it provides more independent decisions. Like the previous rapporteurs, I feel that the hearings must of course be taken seriously and that in committee we must identify whether there are resources and competences to deal with the complaints that will then come. After all, we have had an earlier treatment in relation to the competences of the Refugee Board. It is certainly no secret that we in the Radical Left are sorry that there are no more competences from them in relation to people on earth, both where the refugees come from and where they come from, in the Danish Refugee Aid and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which has the factual and professional knowledge of the conditions in the world. They are no longer part of the Refugee Board. But overall, it's a really nice step in the right direction with these transfers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131406	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131421	In the SF, we also support this bill. Especially in the cases described here, it is important that there is an arm's length arm's length, and that is what is promoted by this bill, and that is why we support it. I can refer to many of the other wise remarks made by the rapporteurs earlier in the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131446	Thank you. Then we reached Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131455	Thank you. The bill means that the handling of a number of complaints is transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to the Refugee and Foreign Affairs Board. We understand the proposal that cases which are very similar to those already dealt with by the Refugee and Foreign Affairs Board should also be placed in the Refugee and Foreign Affairs Board. As such, the handling of complaints is not part of a department's core task, so we think it is sensible to move the tasks to the boards, where you are experts in this kind of case-handling. In the Conservative People's Party, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131536	Thank you. After a number of commendable short speeches, we have now reached the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112131545	First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving the proposal. I understand that there are some things that need to be unveiled in committee, and that is quite appropriate. The draft law before us today proposes to transfer a number of specific complaints from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to the Refugee and Foreign Affairs Board. As has also been mentioned by a number of rapporteurs, the cases proposed by the bill have been very similar to, or relate to, the cases which are already being dealt with by the Refugee Board and the Foreign Affairs Board. It makes good sense that the handling of specific complaints does not lie in a department whose primary task should be to assist the minister who is now and, of course, also to provide parliamentary services. The transfer is also appropriate and makes good sense, as the Refugee and Foreigners' Board are independent and courtlike bodies which already have a great deal of expertise in dealing with specific cases. In addition, the bill contains changes to the rules on the term of appointment of the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the rules on the reimbursement of fees, an adjustment of the visa complaint system, and a transfer of certain cases from the Board of Foreigners to the Board of Governors for International Recruitment and Integration. The types of cases proposed to be transferred to the Refugee and Aliens' Board concern various areas of foreign law. This is among other things. cases of age-setting and residence permits for unaccompanied minors asylum seekers. It may be cases of identification of aliens' identity, it may be complaints about refusal of a visa, where the Immigration Authority has taken a decision at first instance. But there are other cases as well. One might then ask whether there is a particular reason why the complaints are being transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration to the Refugee and Foreign Affairs Board right now, and there is, in fact, no particular reason for this to happen at the moment, but rather that it is appropriate to do so. It can be called a sort of clean-up, as I think it was the rapporteur of the Left who called it, to ensure that the Department of Foreign Affairs and Integration deals with fewer specific complaints and thus has more time to carry out the core tasks which traditionally belong in a department. At the same time, it ensures that the specific complaints are dealt with by the same authority which deals with other similar specific cases in the field of aliens. The Refugee Board and the Foreigners' Board are two independent and courtlike bodies which, with their professional knowledge in the field of aliens and expertise in dealing with specific cases, are extremely competent to deal with the cases proposed for transfer as well. The draft law also provides for an adjustment of the visa complaint system. The current complaint system has been put into effect as of May 2015, and no fundamental change is proposed in this respect. On the other hand, an adjustment is proposed to ensure better use of the resources of the immigration authorities. This will also benefit visa applicants. The adjustment provides for the possibility that several types of visa decisions taken locally at the Danish representations are not automatically considered to be subject to appeal, but only to appeal proceedings if requested. Taking advantage of this possibility will, of course, take account of legal considerations such as: explanatory statement and guidance on complaints. Finally, it is proposed that the President of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy be appointed for a further period of four years and could therefore be a member of the Board for a total of 12 years. This is a proposal which corresponds to the arrangement applicable to the President of the Refugee Board, which has just been adopted here in Parliament last December. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the support the proposal has enjoyed here today, and I look forward to the committee reading. I can also hear that there are a number of written questions that are waiting, and of course you will get answers to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132026	There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132031	Thank you. On the length of the proceedings, the Left said in the election campaign that we should have the processing period down to 3 months in both asylum cases bodies. As far as I can see, you are now over half a year in the first instance, and now we are putting further tasks into the Refugee and Aliens' Board. Is the Minister not worried that with this excellent proposal we will get even further away from what was the Left's electoral vow?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132056	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132056-2	There is no doubt that the processing times will have to be reduced, but you will probably also have to see it in the light of the large number of asylum seekers we saw in 2014 and 2015. Now we have seen a marked decline in 2016, and everything else must make it easier for us to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132116	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132118	Yes, of course. This is an extraordinary situation and it is, of course, difficult to predict. But is it the policy and ambition of the government that we have to reduce the three-month processing period in both bodies for a normal asylum application?
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132132	It is certainly the ambition that the processing times should be significantly reduced, and I would very much like us to achieve a target of about three months. I think that would be good for everyone. But we have been in an extraordinary situation here, and it is clear that it has been a great strain for the mention too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132152	Thank you. With these informative comments, the point is in fact over, as there are no more who wish to speak. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170112132210	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament is tomorrow, Friday, January 13, 2017, p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
