ParlaMint-DK_20170323100015	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 166 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Rural Fund. Minister for Health (Karen Ellemann, fg.): Bill No. L 167 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Health and Access to Complaints and Compensation in Public Health). René Gade (ALT) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B-96 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on a lower VAT rate for fruit and vegetables). Rune Lund (EL) and Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 97 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the appointment of 1000 additional annual work for the inspection work in the SKAT). Karsten Hønge (SF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 98 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the promotion of the use of ferries). Titles on the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk. above). Member of the Folketing Karina Due (DF) and others. She has informed me that she wishes to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a parliamentary resolution on the establishment of a labelling system for dog kennels. B 87). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the motion for a resolution has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323100130	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 52 by Jep Jakobsen (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel (KF). Has everyone voted? Now I think everyone has voted. In favour of 52 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 52 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 53 by Astrid Krag (S), Stine Brix (EL), Lotte Rod (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and proposals for adoption No. V 54 of Pernille Schnoor (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323100253	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323100321	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323100357	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323100415	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 94 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 8 (EL), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323100444	Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten. It'd be really good if you just remember to get in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323100520	I'm sorry, President. Thank you. This proposal is, after all, about the pay and pension conditions of ministers. In the Enhedslisten, we have been working for many years to normalise the pension situation of politicians, so that our relationship with the rest of the population is more abated. It is therefore also positive with this bill that a few small steps are being taken that limit the most unbearable privileges that we are covered by. Unfortunately, the draft law is quite inadequate and, in fact, runs the risk of making politicians more advantageous in certain areas than with the rules in force. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments from the Enhedslisten which we hope will be supported. Unfortunately, when it comes to the retirement of ministers, the parties behind the agreement have chosen not to follow the remuneration commission's proposal for a contribution-based pension, which is more like the occupational pensions to which other employees are subject. Instead, this very lucrative civil servant-like pension scheme has been maintained, where politicians can earn a very high pension much faster than virtually all other Danes. But that can be corrected now, because we have tabled an amendment from the Enhedslisten, which means that we are giving up the privilege pension for ministers and, instead, following the recommendation of the Pay Commission to move to a savings-based pension, which is more like the occupational pension to which other Danes are subject. Then there is the question of retirement age. This proposal has raised the retirement age for ministers, so that in future it will follow the old age of retirement. As has been suggested, this little trick has been introduced to introduce something called an early retirement pension. And this is not the kind of early retirement that we know from other Danes, with work tests and medical declarations and bureaucracy and things like that. No, this is an early retirement pension which is completely independent of health and which you can just choose if you want and which, combined with the very lucrative pension, means that in future ministers can also retire with a high pension 5 years before the retirement age and can even receive the pension, while they have other high-income jobs. We don't think that's okay. The right to early retirement, despite the fact that a deduction is made, will nevertheless mean that it can be economically lucrative to opt for early retirement in relation to waiting to retire, since, depending on the overall life cycle, a higher amount of pension can be paid than if one waits for the retirement age, i.e. an improvement in the current rules. That problem will also be solved if our amendment on a savings-based pension is adopted. Alternatively, during the third reading, we will propose that the possibility of early retirement be completely removed. Finally, it is a major problem in relation to the pension that the change in pension rules only applies in the future and thus does not cover the part of the pension already earned by current and former ministers. This means, of course, that the ministers who took the lead some years ago in raising the retirement age of the population will themselves be able to raise their pensions many years before the retirement age, and I think that is a very unfortunate signal to send out. It should be the case that when we adopt rules that apply to the population, they must also apply to the politicians who adopt the rules. It has then been argued that it would be contrary to the basic law to include the pension already saved in the new rules, but the legal notes we have received are not so sloppy in their conclusions. There is talk that it may be; there is talk that it depends on where you set the limit and how long you let it go back. That is why we have tabled an amendment which means that the law will be revised in two years' time and that, in the meantime, we will have an independent legal assessment of the possibilities of allowing the generation of politicians who raised the retirement age of the population to be included in the new rules so that they themselves cannot retire as 60-year-olds or 62-year-olds as they can with the rules in force. A final and quite wrong signal from the proposal is that the 5% reduction in ministerial salaries that was adopted in the context of the recovery package in 2001 should be dropped, so that ministers' salaries are now increased. After all, that reduction was adopted at the time in 2001 because it was said that now that everyone else had to keep up with loss of benefit, it would be preferable to stick to it as a politician. So it's just a little funny that it's not like the attacks you made on ordinary people's relationships, for example. the shorter benefit period and a number of the other impairments in the recovery package have been removed again. But the deterioration imposed on ministers seems to us to have to go away now, and that is once again a strange signal to send out. So we have also tabled an amendment on the part of the Enhedslisten, which maintains the current salary situation of the ministers and, moreover, also removes the possibility of receiving a ministerial pension, while at the same time receiving remuneration or remuneration for certain other political duties. I hope, of course, that the majority will support these amendments, but at the same time I must say that this is not something I am counting on, because unfortunately we are experiencing an incarnate reluctance of a majority in this Parliament to do something about these privileges for politicians.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101108	Thank you. Then there is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101113	Radical Left and Enhedslisten have fought together for many years to make this change, so members of the Folketing have exactly the same retirement age as all other Danes have. We think this is a great step forward, and that is why we are voting in favour of this. When I take the floor, it is because I believe that Mr. Pelle Dragsted says something that's vertically wrong. He claims that the so-called early retirement pension, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted calls it, that is, the fact that you can retire a little earlier and then get a lower performance, is entirely exclusive to politicians. I know that it is included in virtually all occupational pensions agreed on in the private contract market that one can choose to take out one's occupational pension earlier and then retire earlier, but then, of course, one gets a lower benefit. This is exactly the same thing we have done here for the politicians in the Folketing and that it should be something quite extraordinary, which only applies to parliamentary politicians, I think is in fact vertically wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101207	Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101208	The fact that it is exactly the same is at least vertically wrong, because it is the case, and it is clear from a note that we have received that if you have an occupational pension and choose to leave, for example. 3 years before the retirement age, that means you lose 20 per cent. of his pension for the rest of one's pension period. If I choose it as a minister or a member of parliament, the deduction is 6%. I think the questioner can see the difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101241	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101243	There are different rates for different agreements, that is quite correct, but the rapporteur must admit that it is quite the same principle. Then there are different working groups on the labour market and different rules for this, but that is quite the same principle, the rapporteur must admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101304	Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101305	It would be quite the same principle if we had followed the remuneration commission's call to make a labour market-like and savings-based pension. Then it would have been a similar principle, for then you would have spent your own money. But that is not the case here. Here you get a deduction, and that deduction is just much, much less than what ordinary employees get if they choose to retire earlier. You can't see this separately from the extent of the pension saved as a member of parliament or as a minister. As members of parliament, we save in eight years the same thing as it might take a metal worker 20 years to save. Then it is clear that a small deduction means much less than it would for a metal worker or a truck driver or other professional groups. So summa summarum we are left with an opportunity that other Danes do not have, to withdraw with a golden pension 5 years before the retirement age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101355	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor. Thank you, sir. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101410	I just think it is appropriate, at second reading, to thank first and foremost for the cooperation that has taken place in a broad circle of parties, to do this modernisation of the conditions for the remuneration and pensions of ministers. This has been something that we have been discussing for a long time, and also modernisation that has forced us to do so. That is why I am glad that there is a broad circle of parliamentary parties behind this modernisation. On the other hand, I am sorry that the Enhedslisten, here by Mr. Pelle Dragsted, continues to make false claims about what the content of the proposal is. Wrong claims were made at first reading and false claims were made during the consultations. The wrong claims have been answered and refuted and, unfortunately, they are being repeated here. The fact is that the possibility of retiring earlier towards a reduced benefit is exactly the same as that in the private labour market, compared to the right to go earlier, and to the fact that there is a deduction. Then, in relation to our ministers, there is the possibility of stopping an earlier deduction corresponding to the pension scheme we have, namely the civil servant pension. However, regardless of whether you are in the private labour market, in other words as a private employee, and you have an occupational pension, or you are an official and have a civil servant's pension, it is possible to stop earlier. So when the Enhedslisten's mr. Pelle Dragsted argues that it is a unique opportunity to be able to stop before the retirement age from reducing the benefit, so it is, as Mr. Martin Lidegaard said, vertically wrong, and it has been refuted every time Enhedslisten has put it forward. Apparently, it bounces off because it doesn't fit in Mr. Pelle Dragsted's story that one here in Christiansborg only takes care of one's own. That is regrettable. It is particularly regrettable that neither the facts, the answers, the consultations, nor the discussion in this Chamber can affect Mr. Pelle Dragsted. On the other hand, I would just like to welcome the fact that there are so many others in the Danish Parliament who agree to have this modernisation done now. I think it has been important for us to get this done so that the retirement age that parliamentary politicians and ministers have brought forward will fully follow the retirement age limits that apply to the rest of the population. I think that is essential. Then there is the whole discussion as to whether our remuneration and pensions should be different, in other words whether our pension scheme, rather than following the civil servant pension, as it has done historically, and as the proposal here should also continue to do, should not have followed an occupational pension. That is part of the Commission's proposal. But where the Salaries Commission said that they are proposing it at the same time and as part of a package that then means setting up the current remuneration to change the pension earnings that exist, Mr. Pelle Dragsted simply to take one side of the coin with him, and I have a vertical disagreement with that. I believe that we should neither be embarrassed nor ashamed of the salary we pay to our MPs or ministers in the Danish Parliament. It is at the level of what is in similar parliaments around, it is at the level of choosing not a political deed for money's sake, but also being paid for the work you do. That is why I think it is excellent that we are now getting these things straightened out and put in place, and I am glad that there is a broad majority rejecting the Enhedslisten's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101732	Here you go. Sir. Pelle Dragsted for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101734	After all, it is difficult to refute all the nonsense that comes from the Minister in this case. It is not an equal position with occupational pensions that has been expressed, because the deduction of what you lose by going earlier on into retirement is just much smaller. The minister says it corresponds to the civil service system. Yes, it may be, but it is funny that when the Minister negotiates agreements and agreements in other areas of the labour market, he tries to remove the civil servants' appointments. There are fewer and fewer people covered by them. However, in modernising our pension situation in the future, you start with civil servants who are trying to get rid of them everywhere else. Then the Minister says that the remuneration commission also proposed raising the salary. Yes, that is true, but there is nothing to prevent us from saying: 'No, we want to take part in the removal of some of the worst privileges in terms of pensions, without the other hand having to demand more in terms of pay.' We can then choose that completely freely, regardless of what the remuneration commission has said. It's just that the majority of people in here have decided that you don't want to. These golden pension privileges will be retained.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101841	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101842	There was no evidence of anything I should have said wrong. I said from the outset that there is a model here which follows the principle of the private labour market and the principle of civil servants, namely that you can retire earlier if you want a reduced benefit if you accept a reduced benefit. And then, because our pension is similar to that of civil servants, it has also been said that the deduction that applies if, as a minister, you choose to retire earlier is the same as that applied to civil servants. It has nothing to do with restricting the recruitment of officials in other contexts. It is a question of what choice has been made, what rules the pension scheme should follow. We have plenty of civil servants today who have chosen to retire earlier than the retirement age against a reduced benefit. It came as a surprise to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, when we had the consultation. That's when Mr. Pelle Dragsted doesn't know that. Nor was he aware that Section 1a of the Pension Tax Act allows private employees to retire early. So the allegations that came from the beginning were erroneous and they are no longer right from being repeated here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101946	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323101949	Then may I just ask the Minister to confirm quite calmly that if a lorry driver or an industrial worker or cashier who is covered by an occupational pension chooses to retire three years before the retirement age, that means a 20% deduction. less in retirement for the rest of his retirement? And if the Minister for Finance chooses it himself but now I know that the Minister for Finance is not covered by these new rules at all, because the Minister for Finance is subject to the old rules and can retire earlier, so if future ministers choose to retire three years before the retirement age, they get a 6% deduction, i.e. one third of the deduction that ordinary people are covered by. Can't we just get it confirmed quietly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323102041	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323102043	I would just like to say hurry up and say that I am fully covered by the rules that are here. It is not the case that the rules that are here do not apply to me. The rules here apply to me under the same conditions as they apply to other current and former ministers. That is why it is quite wrong to say that I am not covered by the rules here. After all, I have said several times along the way that there is a difference between the deductions in occupational pensions and in civil servants' pensions. That is why it is nothing new. I said it in my introduction, I said it in my first reply, and I can say it again, because then I think most people are getting involved: there is a difference between the amount of deduction on occupational pensions and on civil servants' pensions. As ministerial pensions follow civil servant pensions, it is the deduction that applies to ministers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323102122	Thank you. There are no more brief comments if there are no more who wish to speak. That is not the case, so the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323102132	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF). The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 70 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Two and three, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 63 (S, V, LA, ALT and KF), abstentions 4 (RV). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF) voted against 64 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. Nine, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6-8, elected by the committee? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 10 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF). The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 67 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323102500	Sir. Pelle Dragsted would like to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323102521	Thank you. The proposal we are now debating is then about the pension situation of members of parliament. And, as I have said, this is also an area which we in the Enhedslist have been working for many years to normalise, in other words these pension conditions, so that they are more refugees with the rest of the population. Basically, we do not think that, as members of parliament, we should have excessive special privileges. The proposal, like that on ministers, contains some small progress, but not at all enough to deal with some of the very far-reaching privileges that politicians, including members of parliament, enjoy. Yes, I would like to say again that in some areas it is in fact in danger of increasing privileges. That is why we, the Enhedslisten, have tabled a number of amendments to this proposal which, if adopted, will help to create more reasonable conditions which are more similar to those of other Danes. Firstly, like what we have just discussed, the draft law means that in future politicians will also have a very lucrative pension scheme, where, in just a few years, much faster than virtually all other Danes, the right to a very high pension is acquired. And here, unfortunately, the majority have chosen to ignore the remuneration commission's proposal to move to a more moderate savings-based pension, which is more similar to the labour market pension of ordinary Danes. But again I would say that the Folketing now has a chance to get it right by voting in favour of the amendment tabled by Enhedslisten, which means that we follow the remuneration committee's recommendation for a pension based on savings. Secondly, the draft law means that the retirement age will be raised to the age of retirement, but, as in the case of ministers, this new early retirement has therefore been introduced. And again, it is not an early retirement scheme like the one we know from ordinary people, where you need to be checked and through various wear and tearing processes. No, it is a self-chosen system for which you can just choose if you want to, and even get paid even if you have a job next door. Combined with the very lucrative pension, it will mean that members of parliament can also retire in the future with a high pension 5 years before the retirement age and can even receive the pension, while working and having a high income next to it. And the right to this so-called early retirement will mean that, despite the deduction resulting from opting for early retirement, it can actually be economically more lucrative to go earlier, i.e. to get your pension paid earlier • thus more lucrative than to get it later but also more lucrative than today • because, depending on your life span, you can receive a higher amount of pension than if you wait until the retirement age. Finally, as I said, it is a major problem that the pension rules only apply in the future and thus do not cover the part of the pension already earned by members of parliament. In fact, this means that the generation of politicians in here who, a few years ago, led to an increase in the retirement age of the population will be able to raise their pension even many years before the age of retirement. It's not okay. The rules adopted for the people must also apply to the politicians who adopt them. That is why we have also tabled an amendment which means that we will obtain an independent legal assessment of the possibilities of including these changes in the pension that has already been earned. Let me turn now to some of the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group. After all, the Social Democrats have tabled an amendment to the effect that members of parliament should be able to choose for themselves whether they want to retain their very lucrative pension or whether they want to go down on an ordinary labour market-like pension such as the one that more flees with what ordinary people have. Let me be clear: I think this is a completely embarrassing proposal. Instead of listening to people's criticism of politicians' golden pension relationships; instead of following the remuneration commission's suggestion that politicians should go to an occupational pension-type scheme, you make this suggestion that those who are disgruntled, as they say, with this high level, can just go down to a lower pension themselves. Dear Social Democrats, that is not what this is all about. It's not about whether some people in here are unhappy with a high pension. It is about the Danes being dissatisfied because they rightly do not understand why politicians should have such far-reaching pension privileges, which means that you can actually retire with a golden pension long before ordinary Danes. And the discontent and politicianism that this creates does not disappear because some of us voluntarily retire while the rest of you hold onto the privileges. Speaking of sticking to the privileges: both the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have indicated that they will support this proposal, but I have not heard a single politician from the two parties indicate that they will take advantage of the new opportunity and renounce the golden pension, but of course I am looking forward to keeping up with that and seeing if you intend to do so. In the Enhedslisten, however, we have decided to support the Social Democratic proposal that in future we can voluntarily renounce the privilege pension and move on to a more general occupational pension, and we have also jointly decided that all our members of the Folketing will move on to the lower pension so that we get more on the same footing with other Danes. We have done so in a way because we are not afraid to let action follow words. In fact, we have been serious when we have been criticising these very privileged retirement conditions for years. It cannot be the case that politicians adopt deteriorations that affect all other ill, unemployed, worn-out conditions while maintaining extremely lucrative conditions for ourselves. We have also chosen to support the proposal and renounce the privileges, because we hope that by taking the lead we will be able to put new pressure on our fellow Members in here to put an end to the unfair pension conditions that many will still be covered by. It is therefore also, of course, absolutely essential for the Enhedslisten that, if there is a majority in favour of this, there must be full openness and transparency about which parties and politicians maintain the old privileged pension and who voluntarily gives it, for example. is shown on the individual politician's website in the Danish Parliament, so the Danes have the opportunity to follow who really believes that they should have pension conditions that lie miles away from what ordinary Danes have. The Enhedslisten will table an amendment on this at the third reading, and of course I expect the Social Democrats to support it. Because I can read from the explanatory statement of the proposal that you are fully committed to the pension situation that you have. So I expect there to be agreement on that, but it may be that the Socialist rapporteur can go up and confirm it. That was the speech I was going to make, but just before I went to the platform here, a news was rolled into the Ekstra Bladet, and some quite surprising news has come out this morning just before the debate, namely that the Social Democrats' amendments have a very unfortunate consequence and a derivative effect. For as the proposal stands now, it will actually mean that politicians who have been in parliament for more than 20 years will be able to have even greater pension privileges than today. It is the case that, when you have been sitting here for 20 years, you have earned the maximum pension under the current system, but if the Social Democrats' proposal is adopted as it stands, people who have then reached this ceiling, Members who have been sitting here for more than 20 years, or ministers who have been sitting for shorter periods, will be able to choose to jump onto the labour market pension and then add to it, and that is, of course, totally unacceptable. The aim was, of course, to remove privileges and not extend them, and I would like to commend Mr SF. Jacob Mark for discovering this very serious hole. I haven't been smart enough for that myself. But with this new information, we cannot vote in favour of the amendment as it stands today, and I would therefore propose that the draft law be referred back to committee, and I would urge the Social Democrats to table a new amendment closing this gap, so as to maintain the proposal that has been put forward but without this opportunity to add. For even if Mr. Henrik Sass Larsen is a clever fox, I don't think it has been intended that he should be able to add to his already saved pension. So that will be the request from this and we will, of course, vote for the new amendment on behalf of the Enhedslisten. To conclude, I would just like to say that we have been working for many years to normalise the pension situation of politicians, and that is not because it is about a great deal of money. When we insist on holding on to unfair privileges, while ordinary Danes are hit by reforms and higher retirement age, we basically send a signal saying: We are worth more than you. And we in the Enhedslist will not be able to send that signal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323103453	Thank you. It does not appear that there are any more who wish to speak and then the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323103500	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (DF), and a vote can be taken. Has everyone voted, and has everyone voted correctly? In favour 50 (S and DF), against 49 (V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), abstained from voting 4 (RV). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (S), joined by a minority (DF), and a vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour 50 (S and DF), against 49 (V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), abstained from voting 4 (RV). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT and SF). The vote is over. For the vote: 40 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 62 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions: 0. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 3, 5 and 6, 9 and 11, tabled and joined by the same minorities, lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, EL, ALT and SF) and can be voted on. The vote is over. In favour 41 (DF, EL, ALT and SF), against 62 (S, V, LA, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 12, tabled and joined by the same minorities lapsed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (S) and a vote can be taken. Has everyone voted? I have to ask whether everyone has voted correctly, to which somewhere has been committed. In favour 50 (S and DF), against 49 (V, EL, LA, ALT, SF and KF), abstained from voting 4 (RV). PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 10 and 13 by a majority (S, V, LA, RV and KF), elected by the other committee? The proposals have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 14 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF). The vote is over. In favour 35 (DF, EL and SF), against 68 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. It has been proposed that the bill be referred back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323104029	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. It would be wonderful if there were the same calm in the Chamber as there have been in the previous proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323104100	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323104118	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Thomas Jensen, Social Democrat, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323104147	Thank you, President. The financial crisis showed us that the regulation of the financial markets was not good enough and fine-meshed enough. Deregulation from the 1980s and up to the 00s meant that unscrupulous speculators could start the financial crisis, which then developed into a real economic and social crisis with unemployment, where ordinary employees lost their pensions and life savings. Now, nine years after some of the world's economies are getting back into business, let us not forget that it is our responsibility as legislators to prevent a repetition of the financial crisis. Already in 2009, the G20 Summit in London decided to strengthen the financial system by developing financial regulation and building a more delicate network for the supervision of capital markets. Since then, we in the Danish Parliament have taken many different steps to ensure financial stability. And the two legislative proposals we are working together today are an update, an extension and an adaptation of this regulation to Danish legislation. Overall, legislative proposal L 155 has to address the problem that a wide range of transactions in financial instruments are currently taking place outside the trading venues currently regulated by MiFID I from 2004. Trades have been more automated than in the past and a number of new market players have been added. Here, then, we must make sure that trade takes place in a regulated market where there are clear rules within which players must remain. A number of new areas are therefore also subject to regulation, and it is most important to emphasise that there is a sharper focus on such more computer-controlled trades, which are, after all, developing strongly. These are all steps in the right direction. There are many elements in the two legislative proposals, and I will not go through them all, because there is absolutely no time for that here, even though the speaking time here at first reading has been extended. But I will try to crack down on some of those that I think are the most important to work hard on in committee. In L 155 there is this section on algorithmic trade, and in an algorithmic trade a computer makes a large number of trades based on pre-programmed instructions. Applicable Danish law today does not contain special rules on the use of algorithmic trade, and this bill must then be corrected. What is in the draft law is the introduction of a number of new rules designed to reduce the risk of an algorithmic trade causing market disruption. This also applies to algorithmically high-frequency trading, which is a special form of algorithmic trading, where a trading system analyses market movements in a very short time and then responds to the analysis by placing a large number of orders. What is the content here is that the proposal requires fund brokers using algorithmic trading to have control measures to ensure that trades do not disrupt the market. And fund-brokers offering their customers direct electronic access to the markets through their trading facilities must carry out continuous checks on customers' suitability and use of access. Then it is also the case that there has to be some control. Fund brokers must inform the FSA of their application and strategies for algorithmic trading and testing of their systems. Furthermore, it is required that trading venues where algorithmic trading is used have the necessary systems and control measures to deal with severe periods of peak and market stress. In the extreme, the draft law means that trading venues must be able to suspend and restrict trade in large price fluctuations caused by the use of algorithmic trading. It is good and positive that regulation of computer-based algorithmic trades is now being introduced at all, but during committee reading and during a thorough technical review of this bill, it would be appropriate for us to have a slightly better overview of whether this bill, the new regulation, is sufficient to ensure that algorithmic trades do not disrupt the market and help to start a new financial crisis. Then there's something about the management of these companies and the management of regulated markets. I have to say that the stories of the financial crisis with more or less incompetent directors continue to be frightening. It is therefore also a good thing that directors or holders should at all times be suitable for the task, be honest and, of course, devote sufficient time to their duties or duties. The proposal also limits the number of management posts that a management member can hold in other companies; demands are made on the composition of the board, the overall competences of the board; and calls for the allocation of resources for introductory courses and further training of board members. In fact, competent management is needed, and it is my view that the proposed rules are essential steps in the right direction. That is good and it is positive. With regard to the supervisory and investigative powers of the FSA, it is proposed that it is the FSA that is designated as the competent authority to ensure compliance with the law, and then in the hearing answers some people believe that supervision and inspection should not be carried out without a court order. Here it is essential to stress that the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority and also the Danish Business Authority are subject to the principle of proportionality, where they first have to obtain information before an inspection is carried out, and if there is a suspicion of a criminal offence against the law, the case has to be handed over to SØIK, which has to carry out a possible search in accordance with the rules of the Code of Procedure. So all in all, I consider that legal certainty is quite well balanced in the legislative proposal, and it is good that it is proposed that two years after the entry into force of the law it should be evaluated whether these supervisory powers are also applied well enough. Then there is the whole level of sanctions if the law is violated. It is the case that the level of fines for breaches of the capital market law is increased by the bill, and that is a good thing. For natural persons, the fine level is from 10,000 DKK. and up to a net monthly salary and, for legal persons, the net annual turnover shall be taken into account at the time of the offence. These are all steps in the right direction. Then there is the law on the resale right L 156, which adapts the law on financial activities and the law on financial advisors to the directives and regulations to be implemented through L 155, and there is one particular point that comes to my mind, namely the remuneration of employees selling or advising on financial instruments. In fact, it is proposed that companies should ensure that the remuneration of the company's employees is not contrary to the undertaking's obligation to act in the best interests of customers, including in accordance with the customary rules. And a ban is proposed on the variable remuneration of employees working with sales targets who could, at worst, encourage action against the best interests of the retail customer. It sounds good to have a healthier pay policy, but in committee I want to make sure that there are no corners of the financial sector where there may be unhealthy pay opportunities left. Then there are a large number of areas in the legislative proposals that give rise to committee issues. That is, for example, the case. What matters is that prospectuses below 5 million. The euro does not need to be approved and there is something missing about regulation in takeover bids, and then there is something in the proposal for cross-border stock exchange activity as well as something about the so-called tied agents, where I think there is a need for clarification as to why the draft law is drafted as it is. Then there is also what we have spent a great deal of time on in the Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and here in the Parliamentary Assembly: the whole question of mortgage credit institutions, in other words, what the consequences for our mortgage credit institutions are with this bill. It is a question here of capital requirements, of the relationship between the internal models of mortgage credit institutions and the standard models that they should be able to follow, and of the impact this will have on individual borrowers in relation to the development of contribution rates. It is also something that we should try to get a little bit of drilling out during the committee procedure. Finally, I would like to say that the more than 1,000 pages of legislative proposals that we have had the opportunity to study since the presentation eight days ago are a great mouthful. I think it is for all of us. It may well happen that I underestimate my fellow rapporteurs in this Chamber today, but I think that we all have areas in these two legislative proposals where, when we have the objective of adopting good legislation here in the Danish Parliament, it might be appropriate for us to have a good and thorough technical review in the Committee on Industry. I also think it would have been useful if it had been something that had happened per year. Automatically, before we had to stand here and deal first with the bill today. But now we are standing here and let us take a good technical review between the first and second readings. Overall, I can say that the Social Democratic Party supports the measures to implement the directive and regulation into Danish law, but I must stress that there may be areas where we gain insight into some aspects of the legislative proposal which should be better regulated than what has been proposed here today, and therefore I look forward to a very good and thorough committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105115	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance, has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105119	Thank you for that and thank you for a thorough review of the bill. I would like to say that I also share the view that this is a very comprehensive legislative proposal which has been put forward recently. I think if I had been in opposition, I would have said the same thing, so I understand that. But when I take the floor, it is because the rapporteur says something that I must admit irritates me a little bit. So you start your rapporteur's speech by saying that the financial crisis is due to deregulation up through the 1980s. We had a Rangvid report which meticulously examined the causes of the financial crisis and came to the conclusion that the liberalization and deregulation of capital markets and legislation in general, which had been implemented in 1988, did not affect a financial crisis that took place 20 years later. The reason why I find this problematic is that we are using an argument for which no evidence can be found in order to introduce a new regulation. I don't think that's entirely serious. And it can have some harmful effects in society that affect ordinary people and affect economic growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105239	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105240	Now it is the case that the financial markets and the world economy and the national economies of the countries are closely linked, and that happened in the 1980s when Reagan came to the United States and when Thatcher came to England that the two countries led the deregulating. We have also seen some trends in this at home. The global deregulation that has taken place in the world has contributed to the fact that the financial crisis we saw from 2008 has been able to have a much greater negative impact on ordinary employees who have lost their jobs and their pension savings. I think that this is essential, and that is why, in my rapporteur's speech, I stress that we must take responsibility for ourselves in the Danish Parliament. Of course, we must ensure that what we can do at home in Denmark and what we can contribute to the European Union, so that there is better regulation, we must then do everything we can to promote, so that we ensure that we do not find ourselves in the same situation again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105342	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105344	Of course, we must take responsibility. We must take that responsibility seriously, and therefore it is also important that the arguments we are using in order to introduce new legislation are real. Once again, it is said that it was the liberalisation of capital markets that caused the financial crisis. The Rangvid report says it's not correct. It was the former Social Democratic government that set up the Rangvid Committee, and the Rangvid report says: "The committee considers that Denmark's economic prosperity in the absence of free movement of capital today would have been significantly lower. The advantages of free movement of capital far exceed the possible costs. Well, the ones we've set to investigate, some of the smartest people in this country in this area, say it's the reverse that's happening. When we have to be responsible, we also have to make decisions on an enlightened basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105443	Perhaps now I think that the elasticity is being used a little in relation to the conclusions of the Rangvid report. In other words, when we look at the world economy and what happened in 2008, we see that there had been a deregulation which, overall for the world economy, caused synergies that were very, very damaging to the economies. I know, sir. Joachim B. Olsen advocates a proposal that there should be no regulation at all in this area and that it should be completely free, but I believe that it would have very damaging effects on the world economy if we got there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105516	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105526	Thank you. After all, the Social Democratic rapporteur gave a rather profound account of many of the elements contained in the two legislative proposals, L 155 and L 156, which the Danish Parliament first deals with here. We can say hello to a new law on capital markets, and we can say goodbye to the law on securities trading, which it will then replace. The Danish People's Party is quite happy that, after several years of running, we will now have updated legislation in this area. A review has been in demand for many years, and this is what we are doing for the first time here today. After all, the aim of the legislative proposals is precisely to increase transparency in the trading of financial instruments, and we must have greater security and validity in relation to the bond market and equity investments. We also need to strengthen the desire of consumers, investors, pension companies and all sorts of others to buy and invest in Danish securities, and this is done among other things. It is also by giving a better legal position to those who in this world of concepts can be described as consumers. And then we will also have a small wrestle in relation to increasing competition in this area. All these things point to the fact that investing in Danish securities must continue to be very good and forward-looking. According to the Danish People's Party, Denmark must continue to be a well-functioning and efficient capital market, and we must act with a very, very high level of credibility, like a credibility that is significantly above that of other investment countries, where you can buy and invest in companies that you can in Denmark. There must be a high level of credibility, we must be a country that is a good investment country; it must be a place where you as an investor feel secure. It is not only the small investors I am talking about, it is also foreign pension companies and others who are also active in the Danish bond and stock market. It should be good to do business in Denmark; we must ensure that there is a high level of professionalism in this area. We in the Danish People's Party think that all these things are quite brilliant with the elements that lie in L 155 and L 156, which also update the law on financial business and the law on financial advice and also housing credit intermediation. In these words, we look forward to a very thorough legal examination of these proposals. I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Social Democrat Party that we must, of course, have a very thorough legal treatment of them. For those who may have gotten acquainted with the entire legal complex that is behind this, know that we are dealing with very large and comprehensive folders, and that of course also means that we need to have things clarified in the order in which they need to be taken into account. So we are very positive about the legislative proposals and look forward to the further legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105823	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323105830	I fully agree with the words of my two colleagues who said that this is a proper set of proposals, namely two legislative proposals, which together take up more than 1,000 pages. So it's a big deal, and of course it also requires us to spend the time we need to be sure that we've been around every corner. I am not going to do a minute review, even if there is an increase in speaking time. Sir. Thomas Jensen also noted that even with extended speaking time it is simply not possible to run things through. But a little history and explanation, I think it's natural to start with. Without interfering in the previous debate, because I am very much in favour of the free movement of capital and the fact that we have a capital market that is as liberalised as possible, it is also important that we ensure that the market works. For the market to function, there must be transparency, there must be clarity and there must be confidence in the market. Therefore, there is a very good reason why the whole area should have a service check. As the Securities Trading Act has been amended, I think it is a few and fifty times since its introduction in 1995, it is a very good idea for the law to be written through and that, of course, we also ensure that a number of very large EU directives are implemented in this area. That is why there are many sides, but it is also many sensible things that are dealt with in the legislative proposals. Because if, as consumers or investors and companies, we do not have confidence in the financial markets and trust in trading in shares and bonds and other financial instruments, then we are in a bad situation. It is therefore essential for our companies to have access to capital that can be invested, create growth and jobs. That is why it is important that we have capital markets that work and that are trusted. After all, that confidence should be strengthened by this bill, both by clarifying and extending the definition of financial instruments and by reviewing the rules governing what is a regulated market and what rules apply, so that we are sure that when there is a trade, it is done under proper conditions and that, as an investor, you get the information you need. As I have said, there are a great many elements to the whistleblower scheme if some are aware of things that do not run according to the rules; rules for prospectuses, that is to say the material to be prepared in connection, for example, with a company wishing to be listed in a trading venue; what information obligations apply when you as an investor own a certain share of a company, and it is of course essential that other investors are aware of the proportion of shares held by other shareholders. There are rules on how a certain shareholding in a company's capital is obliged to make a takeover bid; algorithmic trading, which gradually takes up a great deal, is put in place, because it is important that you do not have algorithmic trade, which, it can be said, will accidentally destroy the market. A software error, a programming error can suddenly mean that the market is being knocked off course. That is why it is, of course, important that we have it under control. Then it is probably also natural to spend some time on the supervisory powers granted to the FSA, because the proposal extends them. It is clear that this is something we must consider carefully. However, the definition of financial instruments is increasing and, wherever they are traded, it is therefore important for the market, for transparency, for investor protection, and therefore it is also natural that when we regulate a little more than today, supervision must also follow suit. And we have also discussed, before the draft law was tabled, whether it could be dealt with without giving an opportunity to enter and check without a warrant. However, the assessment is clear that so-called desk studies are not sufficient, and again, to ensure the functioning of the market and that there is transparency and that there is confidence and that investors are informed so that the market works, but then there is a need for supervision. These are many elements, but, as I have said, it is fundamental to ensure that, as investors, consumers, we trust that trade in financial instruments takes place on a proper basis and that there is openness and transparency about prices. It provides the best guarantee that the market works. And all of that is basically the aim of the two legislative proposals. When we forget this too, we may sometimes have to start from the fact that this is not just a trade, but that it is also the right of companies to raise capital, to secure investment, it is of course important that we ensure that the markets work and that there is confidence and transparency. That is why the Left supports the two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323110439	There are no brief comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, is not just present, it seems. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323110501	Thank you for that, President. As other rapporteurs have said, it is a very comprehensive legal complex that we are discussing here today. As other rapporteurs have said, it is over 1,000 pages. These are extremely complex substances, and I think we all think so, even in the sector affected by regulation. I would like to start by saying that in the Liberal Alliance we are absolutely in favour of regulation. Regulation is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of markets. However, the point of regulation is precisely that it must make the markets work, in other words that it must be market-compliant regulation, and the benefits of regulation must be greater than the costs. I have to say that I am far from convinced that all the regulation that has been rolled out in the financial field over the last few years can live up to that principle, i.e. that the gains must be greater than the costs. I do not know whether this is the case with the two legislative proposals we are now working together on. I hope so, but I'm not entirely convinced myself. I have to say that we are of course voting in favour, but it is also in order to come to Mr Van der Klaauw's attention. Thomas Jensen in the meeting, and in the committee work that needs to be done now, it will probably be quite important that we can get and get input from many sides in relation to these two legislative proposals. There we will listen and have a very serious committee reading. Because this is important. After all, it is about growth and prosperity, and we all have an interest in that. I also think it would be wrong for me to stand by and say that I am not sorry that authorities are now being given additional powers to enter private property and into private companies without a court order. I have criticised this in the past when other governments had the power, and I also think it is a pity that we continue to go along that path. Once you walk along that path, it seems to be easier and easier to keep doing so. But now, I can see that there is a majority in favour of it, but I think we should stop sometimes and ask the question: what are the most important considerations? We think private property is important. Of course, authorities should be able to supervise, but authorities can get a court order, and they can get that quite easily. However, as I said, we support the draft law and look forward to a thorough examination of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323110836	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323110841	In the alternative, we have also been very positive about the two legislative proposals, and there have been some good reviews. Just before we went to the Chamber, I spoke to the Social Democrat rapporteur, and in every way possible a technical review is to be desired, and we will have that in committee as well. Because it is complex matter and, in addition to saying that we are positive in the alternative, I would like to strike down some areas that have aroused our primary interest. Firstly, what we see is making it easier for small businesses to get on the stock market. Despite our criticism of the financial markets and the neoliberalism that we believe has prevailed in a way that has not been reasonable, we know that when companies get on the stock market, there are often more jobs and increased economic growth in those companies and many other sensible things. So in terms of our focus on entrepreneurs, that makes sense. However, with regard to entrepreneurs who go on the stock market, perhaps we need to work with a concept other than entrepreneurship. Probably more people are getting tired of hearing about entrepreneurs. It may also be large companies that we are talking about in relation to entrepreneurship. So we think it sounds promising when it is noticed in the hearings that it will be easier. There is then seen with our eyes a problem, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen also mentioned that without a court order you can enter and from the FSA find information in corporate phone calls and e-mails. In the alternative, we are in principle opposed to it in all other areas, that is, that without a court order it can be done without a problem. This is not just about data protection, it is about human protection. What is involved in protecting data is often that it is human data, and here it is company data. We may have to overlook this, but even if it is in a good intention, I would like to say that this is probably one of the places where we are wise of damage from past history enough from the alternative in the legislative process will have to be very, very sure that this is something we can agree to. Because we cannot actually do that from the outset. We don't think you should be allowed to do it without a court order. Then there was something about flagging, where I also thought it might be interesting to clarify whether there are really weakened conditions for investors in relation to getting an insight into what is happening in what might be called insider trading, i.e. if there are some in a company's management who act on the markets without having to report it. However, as I said, I look forward to going deeper into this and we are the starting point for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323111123	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Radical Left, sir. Martin Lidegaard is not here, and then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323111145	As my colleagues have also mentioned from up here, this is very, very extensive. You almost feel guilty for the climate when you print it out, so I haven't. It can be read fine on an iPad. Just so that I do not forget, I would just like to ask the Minister, perhaps from the platform, to make some comments on how we can get to the bottom of this proposal. As my colleague from the Social Democratic Party also mentioned, this is so important in relation to small and medium-sized enterprises, and it is also important in relation to privacy, as my colleague from the Liberal Alliance mentioned. There has to be this balance in ensuring proper control and the system works, while at the same time we also have an obligation to harmonise some legislation across countries. There are so many elements in these bills that I hope that the Minister will make staff from the Ministry available so that we can delve into this very well. This is an area we have discussed before, but I think it is important that we turn all parts of it around. There are some areas in which we from the SF would like to highlight and which we think are very important, both in terms of insider dealing and securities and in terms of the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. So this is the balance between making sure that we're safe and now I'm not sure if mr. Joachim B. Olsen and I are very much in line with each other that we have both a market and a financial system that works and that we take into account privacy. These are, of course, some of the concerns that sometimes face each other when we have to ensure both some control over cheating and abuse etc. and also ensure that we do not get a bureaucratic monster on the other side. It is not always the right way to strike a balance, so I hope the Minister will also make some comments on that. I will not go into it any more now, but just say that, although it is of course EU legislation, perhaps we should have a discussion in committee on whether there are some areas to which we can table some amendments, so that we can all see ourselves in it. To conclude, I would like to say that it is SF's view that it is important that we have common rules, that we have control, that we have safeguards against cheating and abuse, and that we have a more efficient financial market, and therefore these legislative proposals are also a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323111448	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323111457	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I very much agree with the previous rapporteurs that this is a very comprehensive piece of material, and I can also support the fact that we are working in committee to have a technical review of the legislative proposals. The legislative proposals are aimed at modernising and tightening up securities trading and ensuring that the rules of MiFID II are implemented closely and consistently. After all, the aim of the directive is to increase the security and efficiency of the EU's financial markets, for example. to increase trade transparency, regulatory harmonisation and enhance investor protection, as well as to remedy the deficiencies that MiFID I had. Of course, the Conservative People's Party can support this. For it is crucial that our capital markets and international capital markets can work as freely as possible, and it is important that Denmark is included on equal terms, so that Danish companies have equal opportunities to have access to capital, including mortgage institutions and other bond issuers. We saw, after all, in the context of the financial crisis, where catastrophic a short-term freezing of credit markets was for the whole world economy. The markets must be effective and there must be equal access and easy access to information, and market players must take responsibility for this. At the same time, there must also be some ground rules on how products are marketed to investors, and then I think that the consultation responses also show that stakeholders are generally positive about the improvements and modernisations that lie in the legislative proposals. Because it is basically about trust and trust in the financial system, and all stakeholders have a great interest in that there is a very high level of trust. When you legislate in relation to the financial markets, it is a great deal about striking the right balance between, on the one hand, ensuring security and confidence among market players and, on the other hand, avoiding a lot of unnecessary obstacles to the free movement of capital. That is why it is also important that special, essential rules are not drawn up from one country to another. I think it is very important here that efforts are made to create international solutions, which are also contained in the legislative proposals here, because the financial markets are international and, if there is market turmoil, it is spreading very rapidly internationally. However, when we are affected by the outside world, I think it is good that we can have uniform rules so that we also have equal access to capital in Danish companies. In those words, I would just like to end by saying that we support the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323111746	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323111754	I am, of course, sorry that I was not here when I was supposed to be here, but we will take it now. After all, in the Enhedslisten, we are in principle critical of the way things are going in the financial sector, with the increasing speculation that exists and that has no positive social benefits whatsoever. Basically, we believe that we cannot regulate ourselves out of these problems. This lies in the very way in which the financial sector is developing over the last few decades, with extensive deregulation and liberalisation, which has resulted in these completely wild speculative activities, with thousands of transactions carried out by computer-based algorithms, and with extensive speculation, which has no connection whatsoever with the real economy. Having said that, we must, of course, as long as we have this system and these conditions, try to regulate it in the best possible way, also in order to avoid new crises. I don't think we're avoiding new crises... not as long as it goes as it does, not as long as we just get to grips with this way with some little regulation of the corners. There is a need for far greater intervention with regard to the financial sector if we are to create real financial stability. There needs to be a division of the large banks and financial institutions, as it was before, that is to say to get waterproof bulkheads between the insurance and investment parts, the banks and the mortgage, and of course also simply remove the possibilities for many of these creative financial products such as derivatives and the like. This proposal, as others have said, is very comprehensive, and it is about implementing some EU directives into Danish legislation. Our position is fundamental, of course, that any step towards greater regulation and limiting speculative activities is positive. What is rather the challenge, as we see this proposal, and it may be that we can get closer to it in committee is that it goes both ways. So there are areas where there is a greater degree of monitoring and regulation, and then there are areas where, in order to harmonise with the European Union, new forms of speculative behaviour are actually being opened up. This is true, for example. This is with more opportunities to offer investment services. And this means that the requirement for a securities permit for money in mortgage credit institutions is abolished, for example. That we can expect more speculation from, for example. mortgage banks? And does this mean that the Danish requirements for foreign exchange spot transactions are being abolished in order to harmonise, that we have less regulation than we have today, and is that wise? These are some of the points we need to clarify in the legislative process. We are also sorry that the demand for the small prospectuses for the offer of securities of less than 5 million will be removed. euro. This is not something that increases transparency. So basically there are just a number of areas where we think it is going in the wrong direction, and then there are some areas where it is going in the right direction. We will try to clarify where it is going most, and then we will take up our position on the legislative proposal when we reach the report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112119	Thank you for that, there are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Business. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112129	Thank you for your comments. I really think that was a very positive and constructive reception of the legislative proposals. I would like to start by giving the rapporteurs the right and it was most people who said that it is a great deal of material that has been provided that it is a complex legislative proposal that we are discussing. So, of course, I think it is a very good idea for us to have a technical review in committee, as the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Thomas Jensen, first proposed, and as several rapporteurs have also followed up. So we need to have a dialogue on this, both during the technical review but also during the examination of the proposal. And there must be enough time for us to have a dialogue on how to make the best of these legislative proposals, which, of course, should make our capital markets and financial institutions and the whole area stronger and more robust for the world we live in. Because the point is that with these legislative proposals we are modernising and we are radically tightening up the entire market for securities, etc. and the layout of marketplaces. It is, after all, a major legislative proposal, or both legislative proposals, and they represent the most important regulatory initiative in the field of capital markets since the introduction of stock exchange reform II in 1995 which formed the basis for the preparation of the Securities Trading Act. The aim of the two legislative proposals is to ensure efficient and efficient capital markets, and this is of course to the benefit of financial stability and of the ability of ordinary companies to raise capital for investment and growth purposes. As a society, we also have a particular interest in the proper and appropriate functioning of the capital markets so that they are trusted. The legislative proposals therefore also increase investor protection and strengthen transparency in order to ensure that confidence in capital markets is maintained. This is demonstrated by the fact that in future a number of actors will be regulated and supervised. This is true, for example. data reporting services providers. The providers handle and publish key information about the volume and price of the trade, etc., which investors make decisions on the basis of. Similarly, the information is used to monitor trades and prevent price manipulation. Those actors therefore play a key role as intermediaries of information when securities etc. are traded, and therefore it is important that there is a proper framework within which they can act. It is essential for there to be confidence in the providers and their services. Furthermore, we ensure that all organised trading in financial securities etc. in future trading venues will be regulated, helping to ensure transparency for investors. Trading venues play a crucial role in the capital market by virtue of their role as intermediaries of contacts between issuers of securities and investors. That is why it is important for there to be adequate security and confidence in this. In addition, the legislative proposals take account of the increasing technological developments that have taken place over the years. That is why the legislative proposals include: ensured a sharper focus on computer-controlled trading, also called high-frequency trading. This should reduce the risk of computer-controlled transactions causing disruption on the capital markets. Overall, the proposals aim to ensure greater transparency on the capital markets to the benefit of investors' confidence in these markets and stronger regulation of market players in order to maintain proper and well-functioning markets and to strengthen investor protection. I look forward to a good discussion of the legislative proposals during committee reading. As I said, we will ensure that there is a technical review of the proposals, and I am very constructive in relation to the dialogue and discussion that will take place on the basis of the technical review.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112524	Thank you. There's a comment from Mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112529	Thank you, Minister, for your speech and thank you for your response to the request for a technical examination in committee. When we look at this huge development in computer-based trades, and that's something that, if the computers are set in the wrong way, suddenly can run out completely, it's good that with this legislation we're totally in agreement about this regulation. I'm just a regular parliamentarian who doesn't just have a hundred percent insight into how it's going on in such a market and how those computer programs can be decorated. That is why I would just like to ask the Minister whether the Minister is a hundred per cent safe ground and that we are now getting it in, so that these computer systems in the future will not be able to help initiate a financial crisis or, at least, create market disruptions that would be very damaging to the real economy; people can become unemployed and businesses can lose money. Are we 100 percent on safe ground with this bill? Or do we really have to keep making new solutions all the time to make sure that we are on safe ground?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112631	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112633	I think this is a very relevant question. Here we are trying to encapsulate the rules and structure in this area, while it is, of course, computers and artificial intelligence that may develop. That is why it is my opinion that this draft law covers the developments that are taking place today, but we can never know what is going to happen in the future, in other words, technological developments are going to be so enormously strong in all areas, without exception. It is both because of artificial intelligence, but also because evolution is increasing exponentially and so fast at the moment that I cannot predict what the world looks like in 5 and 10 years. But right now, it is clear to me that it meets the needs that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112720	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112722	Thank you for your answer. I am told implicitly in the reply from the Minister that if it is the case that we gain insight into the need for further regulation in this area, we must also be prepared to do so in the Folketing. Something else is the more human factor: the remuneration of employees in the sector. There are also some new initiatives here, and I think it is very, very good that we ensure that people cannot advise against the interests of customers. But I would like to ask the Minister: does the Minister think that with this bill we will also have it all in? Will there not still be corners in the financial sector where there may be some unhealthy remuneration principles?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112800	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112803	The starting point is that I think that what we are doing with the two legislative proposals here meets the needs that exist. But it is clear that we must always be aware that there will be no wrong incentive structures. The most unfortunate thing we can possibly imagine would be to get a reward for offering something that is pulling in the wrong direction. After all, we must drill that through the technical review and through the input that comes while we are law-reading the proposal. And if something shows up that makes us have to update the bill, we would be happy to do so. Right now, I think we're well covered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112841	Then there is a comment from Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112844	Allow me to say that in a very regrettable error I simply did not reach my rapporteur's speech. We warmly support both proposals. However, the reason why I would now like to ask the Minister a question is that, in negotiating these very important initiatives, which are of course, I would like to say that the European Union, at its best, when it goes in and takes joint responsibility when it corrects a crisis that is impossible to remedy alone, actually succeeded in getting euro countries and non-euro countries to stand together. And it was not the case that those of us who are not in the euro were left on the platform, even though some may have thought that it was the euro countries that would have to take the lead here and swing the tact. I would really like to ask the Minister: is the spirit around the table in the Council of Ministers, when it comes to these issues, to capital markets and to common protection and joint security of our financial mechanisms, advice, etc., still the case that all countries are involved here, whether they are in the euro or not, whether they are part of, if I may say so, the core or not of monetary cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112956	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323112958	Thank you, sir. Martin Lidegaard. This is an important point: it's all the countries that have been united in this. There has been a good dialogue over several years on this, by the way, through various governments. My impression is, on the basis of the reports I get, that there is a common commitment on the part of all countries that you are united in this. Now there is just the apes dabei that on 23 June last year the UK had its Brexit, which is a leading force in such the whole discussion about financial regulation. The reports that I receive at least show that there is still complete support for this process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113037	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113039	Thank you. That's nice to hear, but now the Minister took an advance on my next question, namely how Brexit is involved in this. Of course, it is far too early to say anything about where the British will lie, but there is no doubt that this is some core legislation for the British too, which is so dependent on the financial markets. So you have to imagine that they will want to continue to be part of this. But do we have any indications?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113107	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113109	We haven't gotten the total outlay yet from the UK. The British Prime Minister Theresa May now activates the whole process, and the Danish Government is also formulating its positions. On Monday, we will have an exploratory meeting with various organisations and business companies, where we will provide information on where we stand in different business areas. But it is clear that this is a matter to which we are very, very aware. I do not have a clear indication of where the UK is going to end up, but my own intuition and conjecture will of course say that in this area they will try to stick to the agreements that are, because that is also in favour of the UK.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113153	Thank you. Then there are no further comments. Thank you, Minister. I propose that the legislative proposals be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export, and if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113219	The debate is open, and first it is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113226	This bill tightens the requirements for obtaining permanent residence permits. With the proposal, foreigners must have resided for eight years in Denmark and have worked for at least 31⁄2 years out of the last 4 years, when they must not have been on public support either. In addition, more foreigners who have committed serious crime will not be able to obtain permanent residence permits. Although the number of asylum seekers has been significantly reduced in the last year, we still believe that the general influx is too large and a legislative proposal like this will therefore move in the right direction. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. We do this first and foremost because we know that the conditions for family reunification, the granting of a residence permit and other conditions of residence and the possibility of citizenship affect how many people seek asylum in Denmark. At the same time, however, we have three comments to make. Firstly, the European countries cannot each continue to reduce the conditions for foreigners, in the hope that this will lead asylum seekers to apply against the other Member States. We will not bypass pan-European solutions and stronger EU cooperation in this area, much better enforcement of external borders and increased funding for emergency aid in the neighbourhood. Secondly, it is unsatisfactory that the government changes the rules for obtaining permanent residence permits at such short intervals. There are people in Denmark who are working to live up to the criteria laid down here and who are constantly experiencing that the finish line is moving. Why did the government not present these restrictions when we last amended the Aliens Act quite a short time ago? We might as well have adopted it then. Thirdly, the Social Democrats would like to table an amendment. In the employment requirement for obtaining a permanent residence permit, training is no longer valid. It's time for people to get a job. That's pretty reasonable, isn't it? However, when we adopted the existing rules, the government insisted that the time for vocational training should not be counted when foreigners tried to meet the employment requirement. That's not sensible. We need these foreigners to enter the Danish labour market and become drivers, SOSU helpers, shop assistants and agricultural workers. But we have now ended up in a situation where foreigners who work as unskilled workers in a nursing home cannot sign a training agreement with the municipality. Nor can the Syrian refugee, who has been given work at the ISS, take an education as a service assistant without destroying his chances of staying in Denmark, even if he is still working 37 hours a week, even if he is working for collective pay, and even if no public wage subsidies or subsidies are paid at all. Quite normal work to or simply not part of the employment requirement. Of course, this is no good, and we therefore hope for broad support for our amendments, so that this small but significant error can be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113507	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113511	Thank you. One of the concerns I have about this bill is that we have a group of people who live in Denmark and for whom a note becomes even more dangerous. In other words, we have a group of people for whom being in work is so important, because it is essential to move from a temporary residence permit to a permanent residence permit, and I am concerned that they will be willing to accept unfair working conditions and too low wages, because the price of a flyer is simply that the prospect of a permanent residence permit is pushed even further into the future. So we can have a group of people on the labour market who, I think, will be willing to work on conditions that most people in Denmark would not accept because they fear not being able to obtain a permanent residence permit. I think that can affect the entire Danish labour market, so what does Mr. Mattias Tesfaye about that concern?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113613	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113615	Thank you for the question. Today people must have worked for 21⁄2 years, and now it is being proposed that it should be 31⁄2 years, so there are already people who may have worked for 2 years and for whom a lightcase will therefore have consequences for their ability to obtain permanent residence permits. And I have not heard examples from, for example. the trade union movement that someone should accept obscene conditions on the Danish labour market because they cling to a job to meet the employment requirement. So I understand the question, but I must admit that I have not just come across that concern.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113657	Here you go, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113657-2	It is quite true that there is already an employment requirement today. But this bill will be even tighter, and I am worried that we will have a group of citizens who will be willing to accept worse conditions than everyone else. I would like to ask another question: does the Social Democratic Party think that it makes sense for us to have a group of people and that it is going to grow with this proposal that lives in the Danish society and is quite legal and works here, but does not have full rights and get even longer way to the citizenship, such as. will give them the right to vote? We therefore have an even larger group of B citizens in Denmark. Is that wise for cohesion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113744	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113745	To the rapporteur's first comment on the employment requirement, I would like to say that if you are in favour of employment requirements, there will of course be a situation in which a bill will have consequences for the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits. So the only way to remove Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's concern is to completely remove the employment requirement. On the second question, whether this is sensible, I would like to say that I believe, firstly, that it is sensible to try to bring down the number of asylum seekers. Secondly, it would also be sensible if it were possible for more of those who are here temporarily to be able to come home when there is peace in their country. So it's not necessarily bad that more people are here on a temporary basis. However, the rapporteur is right to say that if people are to stay here in the long term, people have citizenship and can become a fully integrated part of Danish society. That is only positive when we can distribute citizenship to people who have met the criteria we have adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113838	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113841	Thank you very much. I think the rapporteur is talking a little bit with two tongues here. The rapporteur says that we need more money for the neighbourhoods, but the austerity that the government has implemented over the past year means that we can send some extra DKK 1 billion to the neighbourhoods. The austerity measures are, of course, to a very large extent the result of all the relaxations made by the rapporteur's party during the last period of government, but we have now corrected it and this has resulted in an extra DKK 1 billion for the outlying areas. So does the rapporteur not see how it sounds a little hollow when the rapporteur calls for more money for the neighbourhoods, which we have actually obtained?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113926	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323113928	Firstly, the Social Democratic Party has also helped to adopt the long series of legislative changes that have helped to reduce the number of asylum seekers, so that in fact Denmark now receives only half a percent of the total number of refugees coming to Europe, and we are pleased about that. When I mention the long-term range of initiatives which, I hope, will help to reduce overall refugee pressure against Europe and the fact that there are refugees at all, it is not so much to get into discussion with the Left, but more to get into discussion with some of the parties that disagree with the legislative proposal that has now been presented, for it is the very same parties that voted against the military presence in Iraq, for example, and which are opposed to membership of the European Union, which is the basis of the Dublin Regulation, for example. It is, of course, to say that on the one hand some parties in this Parliament do not want to contribute to those initiatives, for example. The refugee agreement with Turkey, which reduces the flow of refugees, and on the other hand they do not want to tighten up at home either. That's what I think is talking with two tongues.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114029	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114030	I appreciate, of course, that the Social Democratic Party has supported some of our hardenings, but not any of the vitals, such as the benefits of integration, but leave it at that. The rapporteur then says that we are critical of the speed of these tightenings, among others. in this area, but does the rapporteur not agree that we are in a special situation where there are people who have had an unlimited stay in Denmark who we do not think should have an unlimited stay in Denmark? So what's wrong with getting these things in place as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114103	Then I regret, if I have made a clear statement to the rapporteur of the Left, because my criticism is not speed, it is rather the opposite. After all, we have changed the rules in order to be able to have an unlimited stay a year ago, and there are a lot of people in this society who are trying to live up to the rules, but who are now seeing that while they are meeting the requirements for a permanent residence permit, we are moving the finish line once again. That's why I'm just surprised that a year ago we didn't set these requirements for permanent residence permits, and of course I'm a little nervous that next time the government has to make a finance agreement with the Danish People's Party, there's going to be a little screwed on all the buttons again. I do not think that is a proper way to legislate in the area of foreigners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114150	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114153	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. One of the things I am really sensitive to is precisely the last thing that the rapporteur has mentioned, that is, the series of restrictions that have been seen by the group of citizens who are trying to do what they need to do to obtain this residence permit that is subject to time limits, and now we are changing exactly the finish line, as the rapporteur himself says. What is the rapporteur's justification for doing this now? What's the reason for making this tightening when it just brings a number of people into a situation where they don't know what they can count on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114231	Thank you. For the Social Democratic Party, the crucial reason for supporting this bill is that we expect that, like the other tightenings of the Aliens Act, it will help to reduce the number of asylum seekers seeking specifically against Denmark. For we believe that Danish society has received too much of the refugees who have all arrived in Europe over a long period of time. We are pleased that in 2016 we have managed to bring down the number, quite significantly even, but we are not at all in the goal yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114300	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114301	However, as I understand the rapporteur, the rapporteur agrees that this could create a situation for the people who are already here who will once again move the finish line. Does the rapporteur not agree that it can actually work in the opposite way when it comes to losing motivation? You get demotivated, you get sad because you just thought you had reached the finish line, and then it disappears for you again. Does the rapporteur not agree that this can actually affect good integration in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114328	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114329	Yes, I think the rapporteur of the alternative is quite right in saying that it is not beneficial for integration that we constantly change the requirements of, for example. to obtain a permanent residence permit or to obtain a Danish citizenship. It really isn't. But we try to weigh some different considerations with one another. One is what the alternative rapporteur is now putting forward, and the other is that there are not too many asylum seekers for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114358	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114404	Thank you. The aim of the bill is to translate the part of the Finance Act which deals with tighter rules for permanent stay in Denmark, also called unlimited stay. And now I can tell you that the Danish People's Party supports the bill. The residence requirement is tightened so that the requirement for a number of years of legal residence in Denmark is increased from 6 years to 8 years. The change is also a tightening of the family reunification rules, as it has an impact on access to spouse reunification, since today immigrants are usually required to have a permanent residence permit for three years in order to be able to be brought together with a spouse. So we are really tightening both the rules on permanent residence and the rules on family reunification. We are also tightening up the self-reliance requirement and the employment requirement. The requirement for self-employment is tightened so that foreigners may not have received public support during the four years preceding the application. Today the requirement is 3 years. So here's a one-year sharpening. The employment requirement will be tightened to require a foreigner to have been in full-time employment for at least 3 years and 6 months in the last 4 years in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. Today the requirement is 2 years and 6 months in the last 3 years. In addition, we make it more difficult to obtain permanent residence permits if you have committed crime. This is also a reasonable and absolutely necessary tightening up from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, and it is also something that we have stressed in the discussions that have taken place in connection with the financial law negotiations, and also in the negotiations that were before it. It is worth noting that today there is a requirement to obtain a permanent residence permit that the applicant fulfils at least two out of four additional integration-relevant conditions, as it so finely states. We'll keep that part. If all four additional conditions are met, the alien can obtain an unlimited residence permit after four years. It is a special scheme which already exists today and the scheme is being continued. The bill doesn't really affect that part. Overall, this is a significant tightening up compared with today. Parliament has already tightened the rules, as has also been mentioned by a few rapporteurs, once since the parliamentary elections, and now we are doing it again. The number of permanent residents has fallen since the parliamentary elections, and it is the Danish People's Party's hope that with this new tightening the number will decrease further. If the bill is adopted, it will also be more difficult to obtain Danish citizenship, as it is a requirement that the applicant has a permanent residence permit, i.e. an unlimited stay in Denmark before a Danish passport can be granted here in Parliament. In this way, we are actually tightening up the requirements of those who wish to become Danish citizens. So it is a tightening-up for permanent residence permits, it is a tightening-up of family reunification rules, and so it is also an indirect tightening of the rules of citizenship. The Danish People's Party asked for this tightening up to be included in the financial law agreement, which is why we can, of course, support the bill, as we see it as an improvement in existing legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114647	Thank you. There are no brief comments, and then it is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114654	Thank you, President. In the Left we have an ambition to close Denmark off to those who cannot and will not Danish society. That's kind of exactly what we're doing with this bill... it's at least a step in the right direction. Our dogmas are simple: you have to be able to support yourself if you want to be in this country and you have to be able to stay free of crime. That is why we are now putting up the bar, which means that you cannot obtain an unlimited residence permit if you have been sentenced to six months' unconditional imprisonment. I would just like to stress that you must be convicted of fairly severe crime before you get six months in prison; that is not something you just get to do some street theft or steal something in a store. Six months' imprisonment is therefore a severe punishment, and I think it is quite fair to say that if you have been in prison for six months for crime that is so serious, it is only fair that you cannot at any time be granted unlimited residence permits. In general one must show the ability and willingness to integrate into Danish society, to do his job and to behave properly. It should not be possible for everyone to receive a permanent residence permit in Denmark. In other words, it is a status that should simply be earned. Now I am not going to sum up all the individual parts of the bill again, as my good colleague from the Danish People's Party has just done, but I just want to say that I am glad that the Danish People's Party made these proposals in our debates, because I think they are right, really sensible. The bottom line is that we have to be critical of the people to whom we give this particular status, and that's what we're going to do with this proposal. So, of course, the Left supports the proposal that tightens the rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114847	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114851	Thank you. I am interested to hear how the Left views the Social Democratic amendment, which will ensure that apprentices and pupils who participate in unsupported work on collective pay and full time can also count the period when they try to meet the employment requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114917	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114918	Well, we are always happy to enter into a dialogue on constructive amendments. Now I haven't seen the details in writing, so let's just take it in committee. If we think it makes sense, we'd be happy to talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114932	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114934	I have no further comments to make.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114938	Thank you. There are no further brief comments at all, and then it is Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323114944	So when you read the comments on this bill, you're gonna miss out on the grounds that once again it's gonna be necessary to tighten up the rules on permanent residence permits. This is what the legislation calls an unlimited residence permit. I sometimes talk to people who think that this is about who may be in Denmark. It's not about that. It is about the people who are in Denmark and who are legally resident: how difficult it must be for them to obtain a permanent residence permit with the security that it provides, so that you do not risk being thrown out tomorrow, and the opportunity that it offers to get near a Danish citizenship, so that, for example, you can see that you are living in Denmark. may vote for parliamentary elections. Before I begin my speech, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and the Social Democrats believe that the apprenticeship of apprentices should also be included in this employment requirement. On the other hand, I find it incomprehensible that education does not count. I think it is deeply tragic that we have legislation which, as such, calls on young people not to train, but to take unskilled jobs because education does not count. I actually thought that the Socialists were a party that fought for more young people to be educated and perhaps even young people with a different ethnic background. However, it seems that we are adding happy voices to legislation which means that education does not count. In the Enhedslisten, we don't think there's any need to tighten these rules. On the contrary, we believe that this creates some problems. More and more people are going to live in Denmark as such a kind of second-class citizen. Well, they live here and work here and pay taxes, but they don't get full rights like the rest of us. And those who will be particularly affected are, of course, those who may be affected by illness or have had an accident at work or are on the edge of the labour market. You'll make life even harder for them than it already is. These people must live in Denmark for years and perhaps even for the rest of their lives without the security of a permanent residence permit and without access to democracy by voting in parliamentary elections. And even if you manage to obtain a permanent residence permit, there is a good deal to meet the requirements for Danish citizenship. These are twisted demands, and I have such a feeling that you are sitting there for the financial law negotiations with the Danish People's Party, and then you think: Uh, where should we tighten in the area of foreigners now? You've tightened up a lot of times on this thing with a permanent stay, but you have to come up with something, so sir... Martin Henriksen will be happy, and then you just tighten again without arguing like that. These twisted demands for the permanent residence permit mean that we have a group of people in Denmark who are really, really afraid of losing their jobs, and they are even more afraid than all of us are. Of course, for all people, a guy's note or an accident at work is a huge problem. It means that you have more difficulty paying your rent, that you don't have a colleague community like that, and what do I know? But for this group of people, it's gonna get even worse and even more dangerous. So says Mr. Mattias Tesfaye: Well, that's how it is as long as there is an employment requirement. Oh, sir. Mattias Tesfaye is smart enough to understand that it is clear that the tougher and the more rigid the requirement, the more dangerous it is to be hit by, for example. an accident at work. I find it very difficult to find a real reason for these constraints when I read the proposal, and I also find it very difficult to see what benefit Danish society should have from having such a group of people who live here but do not have full rights. Enhedslisten works to make it easier to obtain a permanent residence permit. I think that it would be very beneficial for Danish society if more of us who live here in Denmark actually have full rights and are regarded as equal citizens and, for example, as equal citizens. have the right to participate in democracy. So the Enhedslisten is voting against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115404	Thank you. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democratic Party, for a brief comment. And I have to say that you stay calm in the gallery, or you have to leave them. Thank you!
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115414	Thank you for Enhedslisten's rapporteur speech. I am aware of what Enhedslisten is against, among other things. the rules we have that you have to have a job before you can get a permanent residence permit. It's an honest case. But what is Enhedslisten for? In other words, what requirements should be made for a permanent residence permit to be granted if at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115441	We do not have such a resolution in which we say that this is exactly what the legislation should look like, and we are, of course, happy to negotiate with other parties. We believe that the direction is wrong in these years and has been so for many years. We think it makes sense to demand that people learn Danish. But it is clear that people must make reasonable demands. In other words, we should not make such a demand on people who are completely destroyed by, for example, people who do not know what to do. Torture damage, or if a doctor clearly says that it is not possible for this woman to learn Danish at such a high level because of what she has been exposed to. Who gets anything out of it? It may also be reasonable to make employment demands, not of course for sick people, but for people who can work but not as rigid a system as this. Then I have to say that something that is very, very important to me and which I do not understand is not also important for social democracy is to let education count. One should think that it was fantastic when people who are here on temporary residence permits should remember that some of them were born in Denmark, because you do not get a permanent residence permit just because you are born in Denmark. It is wonderful for the individual and for integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115556	Thank you. Especially for the invited guests sitting up there, it is extra necessary to stay calm, please! Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115606	With this I understand that Enhedslisten is in favour of a Danish requirement and an employment requirement, and that the employment requirement can also include training. But should it be 1 year or 2 years or 3 years? I understand that Enhedslisten believes that the direction here is wrong. I have understood that, but I also know that the rapporteur has been working on immigration policy for many years, and the rapporteur must have considered what the position of Enhedslisten really is. Is it 1 year's employment requirement, and is it okay that you are just enrolled at RUC and show up to half the hours, and that you e.g. does the teaching follow in English? Is that enough to get a permanent residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115641	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115642	We have not adopted such a paper that says that exactly that long you must have worked. As I said, I think it might be sensible to make an employment requirement, but I think that what is here is too rich and I think it is quite crazy that education is not rewarded. And as I said, I really think that it is not just a question of parliamentary opinion, it is difficult to understand that the Social Democrats do not think that young people who are training should be rewarded for that education. By the way, we have a drive-through reform which means that you cannot just sign up for RUC and not get to class and then keep going there. I think the Social Democrats voted for it, as I recall.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115727	Thank you. Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115729	Thank you. I'll follow the same line of questioning, but just clarify it a little here. So, are there any individual parts of this that the rapporteur can see the logic of? Let's try to focus on crime. Now we are putting a new bar, which says that you cannot get a permanent residence permit if you have been in prison for 1⁄2 years and I remind you that you have to have done something relatively serious or something very serious to go to unconditional prison for 1⁄2 years. Does the rapporteur see the logic that such persons should not be granted a permanent residence permit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115801	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115802	Now I just saw that mr. I think Don Ø got his sentence changed to 11⁄2 years, but maybe it was conditional. Because you are sentenced to 1⁄2 years of imprisonment at the age of 18, should you continue to be prevented from obtaining a permanent residence permit at the age of 60? No, I don't think that's fair. I think that a certain period of waiting may be reasonable enough, that is to say, a number of years will pass before you have the opportunity to apply for a residence permit again. Then we can discuss how long it should be. But the fact that, at the age of 18, you commit crime, which means that you are given 1⁄2 years of imprisonment and thus the rest of your life is prevented from obtaining a permanent residence permit and thus, for example, from having a permanent residence permit. A Danish passport and the opportunity to vote for parliamentary elections, I think is unwise. And I think it is contrary to the whole principle on which our community of law is based, namely that when you have endured your punishment, you have endured your punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115859	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115900	I can't say surprisingly that I disagree. But then let us lower the bar a little and hear what the rapporteur thinks about it, that we say that one must be able to support oneself in order to be able to obtain a permanent residence permit in Denmark. Can the rapporteur not see that there is something reasonable about not being able to sit on social benefits, but actually having to go out and contribute to the society that one obviously wants to be a part of?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115923	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323115925	So this bill can also provide social benefits for a period of time, but now for a shorter period, because it makes the employment requirement even more rigid. I think we are talking here about some of the fundamental difference that Mr. Marcus Knuth and me. I don't have the view of people who are sick, that it's probably because they're cheating and that they just think it's magical to go down to the municipal office and seek cash assistance. I do not have the view of people who are affected by unemployment that they probably think it is really fantastic. I think that by far, the vast majority of people affected by unemployment want to work. And by the way, there's so much control we spend millions of dollars on it, too much money to my liking that you can't just lie down on the couch.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120009	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120011	Thank you. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen makes it almost sound like we are taking something from people, for example from those who are taking an education, but you can of course take an education in Denmark. If you come to Denmark and you get a temporary residence permit, Danish society is so generous that you get the opportunity to complete an education paid by Danish taxpayers. We should be grateful, moreover, that we have this opportunity, and it is not a matter of course that, because we are conducting an education, we are entitled to a permanent residence permit in Denmark or a right to have citizenship in Denmark, and I cannot understand that idea at all. If you then complete the training that you have received, which is paid by the Danish taxpayers, you can then go out and show that you can use that training in the labour market, pay your tax, etc., and then it is only then that it is assessed that you have given something back to Danish society, and then you will be given a permanent residence permit. Can't Enhedslisten follow that logic at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120059	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120100	If we are finally to go into such a bottom line logic, where we only look at people as a bottom line, then it is far better for Danish society that a young person takes an education than a young person works unskilledly. And Mr. Martin Henriksen must remember that one can easily be born in Denmark and not have a permanent stay, so these people who should be so grateful to the generous Danish society can therefore be people born in Denmark. I consider them Danes. They could be kids who came here when they were six.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120141	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120142	I think it's a strange attitude to have: you get an education provided, paid by the Danish taxpayers, people who for generations have built up this society and have made sure that people who come here in one way or another get an education, and the Danish taxpayers pay for the education, but the fact that you then complete that education doesn't mean that you are entitled to something. It doesn't. This simply means that one should be grateful that one has been given the opportunity to carry out an education, just as Danes should be grateful that they have the opportunity to complete an education. The fact that you are carrying out an education does not mean that you can afford to stand up and say: I am entitled to something now. However, if you then use your education to get out to work on the Danish labour market and pay back something to the society that has given you an education, you may be eligible for a permanent residence permit. It makes really good sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120226	I understand, sir. Martin Henriksen thinks I have a strange attitude to it. I can assure you, sir. Martin Henriksen, that I also think that Mr. Martin Henriksen has an unusual number of deeply strange attitudes. As far as education is concerned, I think it is very wise to try to organise society in such a way that we motivate young people to take an education rather than take unskilled jobs. It is not because there is necessarily something wrong with unskilled work, because there is something like this in Denmark too, but it is getting smaller and smaller. This is why the Danish Parliament spends a great deal of effort trying to get more young people into education at all possible other levels. This is an objective which all parties have agreed to, that is to say, that more people have to train. And we often talk about it in relation to young people with different ethnic backgrounds: if only they would train. Then it is foolish to make legislation that punishes those who train and rewards those who take unskilled jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323120319	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. I have to postpone the sitting until 8:00. 13.00, where it is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130000	The sitting is resumed. We have reached Mrs Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance, in the ranks of rapporteurs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130029	Thank you. With L 154, we are implementing the part of the 2017 Finance Act which is aimed at tightening up the rules on permanent residence permits. Basically, the parties behind the agreement agree that obtaining a permanent residence permit in Denmark is something very special. That is why we want to tighten up the rules in this area. Previous rapporteurs have explained very well the specific parts of the bill, so I will not do so, but I would nevertheless like to note that the restrictions we are making here do not affect the particular model we have today, where foreigners who come to Denmark to work and contribute to society can already obtain permanent residence permits after four years by fulfilling the four additional conditions laid down by us. This is very important to us in the Liberal Alliance, since we are concerned that Danish companies are attractive so that they can attract skilled labour. It is not easy to obtain permanent residence permits in Denmark, but for those who really want to, it can be done through hard work. This is exactly how we think it should be. Denmark must be open to those who can and will. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130148	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Josephine Fock for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130203	Thank you. What we are dealing with here today is draft law L 154 on amendments to the law on foreigners. This is a tightening up of the rules on permanent residence permits. The previous rapporteurs have carefully examined the restrictions, so I will begin by explaining my view of what this bill is doing. The bill makes it even harder to obtain permanent residence permits. The rapporteurs who have been on the platform and who are positive about the draft law indicate that it must be even harder. And they say it is good that you can see that those who want permanent residence permits really do. I would like to turn it around a little and say that for Danish society and for the people involved, I think there should be an opportunity for us to open up to welcome these people, so we say that it is an equal citizenship that we offer them. We don't do that with this bill. It's people who have been granted a residence permit. So this bill is about giving them permanent residence permits. I believe that it will benefit Denmark if we welcome these people properly and say that we invite them in. They have been allowed to be here, and now they must of course have an equal stay in Denmark as other Danes do. They must be equal members of Danish society. This bill doesn't, on the contrary. I do not believe that this draft law promotes integration. When you look at the consultation answers, you see that there are a lot of consultation answers asking why this bill is coming right now. I agree that it has been in the government base that you want to tighten, but there is no independent justification for why you want to tighten again, except that you just want to tighten. The Social Democrat rapporteur said that the people who are in the country are once again exposed to uncertainty. The goal line they thought they had reached is being moved again. It must be infinitely frustrating. I am quite sure that all my fellow rapporteurs will receive very, very many emails from people who are very frustrated, because they will have to look again at the target line they just thought they had reached. It is not something in my optics that in any way promotes integration, on the contrary. This must cause these people to become terribly frustrated and sometimes completely discouraged. Again, it does not promote integration either. So I find it incredibly difficult to understand why we need to tighten just to tighten. Then there is the point that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur made a lot of things and on which I fully agree. It's quite grotesque that education doesn't count. Why do we not say that education counts when applying for permanent residence permits? With this speech, I don't think it's surprising that the alternative doesn't support L 154.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130536	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130550	Thank you. There are several rapporteurs before me, among others. The alternative rapporteur, who has explained some of the new tightenings and changes in the rules on permanent residence. In the Radical Left, we also agree with the comments made by the previous rapporteur. We also find it mysterious that education does not count. Basically, perhaps this is something else I would like to highlight here. The rules on permanent residence have been changed so many times that people who live and work in Denmark and have been here for a very long time • many have had children • must always relate to a postponement of what very many feel as the Danish society's recognition of them as citizens. We have a breakdown of whether you're an A citizen or a B citizen. It's added to it with this sharpening. With this bill we tell the people who are already in Denmark that we do not fully recognise them anyway. It could, for example, be done. Be Alison. She's married and family together with a Dane. She has lived here for a number of years, and she and others like her are a part of our society. She has met all the requirements so far. They've just been changed. It was the last few years, and now they're changing again, so she's gonna have to look another way. She's been working all along to meet those requirements. It's Alison who has a permanent job as an emergency nurse. She actively participates in all possible parts of Danish society. She speaks fluently Danish and has worked with her Danish spouse to meet these requirements. The sharpening comes now, not even a year after the rules were changed, and it means that she must now again orient herself differently. Now what she's done isn't really Danish anyway. Now it's time for something else to be able to meet the requirements. That is why she and so many others see this law as a punishment, as a failure to recognise that what she has done to meet the requirements was the right thing, which was her opinion last year. There are consultation responses from, for example. Danes Worldwide, and there are many others who highlight the same thing. It may be a little harder to put on a formal basis, but it is a question of constantly postponing the recognition of ordinary fellow citizens in our society. In addition to the very specific things that have been mentioned by the previous rapporteur, I think that is really a pity. Radical Left is against this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130919	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. We have reached the Socialist People's Party. I can see that it's Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, on his way up to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323130939	Thank you, President. I am not going to explain the content. My colleagues have done quite well. I just want to say that we cannot support the austerity that is part of this bill. Frankly, we find it hard to see the deeper meaning of it. There is one thing you must always be aware of. It is that when the Danish People's Party negotiates Finance Act, they must have a chunk at the very end. People in the country are shaking and trembling because they are waiting for what the Danish People's Party should have this time in the form of various tightenings in the area of foreigners in particular. During this time it became so tightening of the possibility of permanent residence. So that's the only reason for this. That is the reality of it. Several tightenings have taken place in recent years. It happened at the latest a year ago. As others have pointed out, every time this gives rise to uncertainty among the people who sit in the country and have to experience them. It is people who have made every effort to obtain permanent residence and later citizenship through education and through activities, etc. But all of a sudden, just before they reach the finish line, they are told that the finish line has been moved. They can't have that anyway. It's not fair for these people. In general, this is counterproductive to the integration process. I am a little out of comprehension about how much effort a majority in this Parliament is making to weaken the integration effort with a number of different actions like this. They will still regard themselves as second-class citizens, and it is not very encouraging if we are to integrate. As I said, we cannot support it. We shall vote against this proposal. The only reason we can see is that you should satisfy the hunger of the Danish People's Party. We don't contribute bone to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323131158	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is the Conservative rapporteur, sir. Naser Khader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323131204	It is important that we only give permanent residence to those who will contribute to Denmark, and not to those who will not contribute. A permanent residence permit is a privilege. That is why we must also make high demands on the ability and willingness of applicants to integrate. It is, in fact, a question of integration, because we can only achieve successful integration by sending out clear signals about what abilities and what will it takes to be a part of society. We must have the opportunity to look at the time when it comes to people who come and settle here before they get permanent residence. Strong criminals should not live here, and you should be able to support yourself and contribute to society. That must be the starting point. Several rapporteurs have mentioned the details of the austerity measures being proposed here. I will not go into that. We are making these restrictions because we are on the side of law-abiding citizens. We are with those who want Denmark. But if you are a foreign criminal, you should not be allowed to live permanently in Denmark. But it is also in the interests of refugees and immigrants, because, with high demands, we are also laying down clear guidelines on what integration requires. We raise the bar to get an extra bet from those who would like to stay here permanently. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323131340	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached the minister. Here you go to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323131351	Thank you for your contributions. I can of course note that there seems to be relatively broad support for the legislative proposal here. As has already been said, the aim of the draft law is to translate the initiative on tighter rules of residence in Denmark into the Financial Law Agreement for 2017. The possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits in Denmark is, in the view of the government, a privilege, and the parties to the agreement agree that higher demands must be made on the ability and will of refugees and immigrants, not least to integrate into Danish society. It is therefore proposed to tighten up a number of the basic conditions for obtaining permanent residence permits. Firstly, the residence requirement is tightened and this means that the requirement for the number of years to have been legally resident in Denmark is increased from 6 to 8 years. This has a secondary effect on spouse reunification, because immigrants are normally required to have a permanent residence permit for three years in order to have a spouse reunification. Immigrants must also, as a rule, have had 11 years of legal residence in order to obtain spouse reunification. As the draft law also shows, we are on the verge of what is possible under Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. You may disagree with that, but my view is that it is a process risk that we have to run as the world now looks. Secondly, the requirement of good repute is being tightened up, i.e. the rules that, if you have committed more serious crimes, you will be completely excluded from obtaining permanent residence permits. Today, foreigners who have been sentenced to 1 year's unconditional imprisonment or more are excluded from obtaining permanent residence permits. From now on, this is already happening with a six-month sentence. Thirdly, the seasons are being tightened up, i.e.: The rules on the exclusion of permanent residence permits for a period of time, where crime has been committed, and with the tightening up of the waiting periods, in order to obtain permanent residence permits to a greater extent, correspond to the periods of citizenship, i.e. citizenship. This means, among other things, that the waiting period for unconditional imprisonment is extended from 41⁄2 to 6 years and that the waiting period for unconditional imprisonment of between 60 days and 6 months is extended from today 12 years to 15 years. Fourthly, the requirement for self-reliance is tightened. Today, foreigners may not have received certain types of public support during the last three years prior to the application for a permanent residence permit, and it is now raised to four years. Finally, fifthly, the employment requirement is being tightened up. Today, a foreigner is required to have been in ordinary full-time employment or to have pursued a self-employed activity for at least 21⁄2 years in the last 3 years in order to obtain a permanent residence permit. The employment requirement is now raised to 31⁄2 years in the last 4 years. A number of the basic conditions for permanent residence permit remain unchanged. This is, for example, the case. on the requirement that foreigners should not be indebted to the public, that foreigners should sign a declaration of integration and active citizenship, and that foreigners have passed the test in Danish 2. Some of the consultation responses received from the consultation parties express concern that the bill affects highly qualified foreigners, which companies, educational institutions and authorities otherwise work strategically to recruit and also maintain in Denmark. It is now a requirement to obtain permanent residence permits that foreigners meet at least two out of four additional integration-relevant conditions. The four conditions are, firstly, a requirement of passed citizenship test or active citizenship; secondly, a stricter employment requirement; thirdly, an income requirement; and, fourthly, a stricter language requirement. If all four additional conditions are met, the alien may obtain a permanent residence permit after four years. The bill does not affect this particular model. It will therefore continue to be the case that foreigners who have shown a special ability and willingness to integrate into Danish society can obtain permanent residence permits at an earlier stage. In addition, some of the responses received expressed concern that the bill would mean that an even larger group of the most vulnerable refugees would be excluded from obtaining permanent residence permits. It is the government's view that all resident foreigners should have shown the ability and willingness to integrate into Danish society in order to obtain permanent residence permits. The government wants to encourage indigenous refugees to learn the Danish language and also to get into employment. I believe that the higher demands we make on all foreigners, including refugees, will lead to extra efforts by foreigners to become an integral part of the Danish labour market and society in general. In this way, their opportunities for well-integrated integration will be strengthened. Therefore, refugees should not be allowed to obtain permanent residence permits more easily than all other foreigners, and that is also why, just over a year ago, we removed the particularly lenient access to permanent residence permits for refugees. That remains our position today, I would like to emphasise. Having said that, I would also like to stress that the individual conditions for permanent residence permits in the same way as today will not have to be imposed if Denmark's international obligations, including the UN Convention on Disability, are to do so. The proposed reinforcements therefore do not affect foreigners who are currently exempt from the requirements of Denmark's international obligations. In some of the consultation responses received, the consultation parties have pointed out that the rules on permanent residence permits have changed many times over the last few years. This was also one of the points raised by the Socialist rapporteur and that the entry into force rules mean that the new rules will have retroactive effect. It points out that it creates uncertainty and unpredictability as to the conditions for permanent residence and that it makes it difficult for those concerned to organise their lives. I would therefore like to stress once again that it is basically the government's view that the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits is a privilege. Therefore, it is also an area where we can, but should also make high demands on the ability and willingness of foreigners to integrate into Danish society. It is with this aim in mind that we are tightening up the rules on permanent residence. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the support that has been given to this proposal. I look forward very much to the further consideration and the issues that may arise either here today or during the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132207	Thank you, Minister. In any case, we are taking a single question here today. It's from Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132213	Thank you to the Minister for the review. After all, the Minister mentions it several times about integration, and I fully agree that the legislation we have to make should promote good integration. Where I think we have a great deal of disagreement is in fact about what it takes to promote good integration. We keep moving the finish line for these people who are in Denmark, and how does the minister think that it can promote good integration, that is, those people who are really struggling hard to live up to all these things and live up to the latest tightening that was, now again the finish line is disappearing on the horizon? Can the Minister not say a few words about how this promotes good integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132302	I think it can be said that it promotes this. I fully agree that we should go a little further, but the longer we have to stretch is also in some areas where I think it is quite reasonable, i.e. that we should, for example, have to go further. must be employed, you must support yourself, and, of course, you must stay out of crime. I think that is quite fair if you want the privilege of permanent residence in Denmark. It is not a given matter that you get it, and therefore this is also exactly a place where we can set ourselves a rather strict framework for how things should be. I think it is quite true that this is one of the places where it very, very much separates the waters between the government parties and the alternative. That is sometimes the case in politics. But I have to say that when it comes to, for example... I think it is quite fair to tighten up if it is the case that you make a statement and you do so when you apply for a permanent stay that you want to be a part of this country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132416	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132418	Thank you for your answer. However, does the Minister not agree that what is also important for our society and the cohesion of our society is, of course, that we treat each other as equal citizens? From my point of view, I see that we are constantly making sure that the legislation is tightened. There have been ten tightenings in the last few years in this area. Does the Minister not agree that we should not treat each other equally in this way? After all, it is people who are staying in Denmark, and it is important that we involve them and involve them and see them as equal people instead of all the time, I think that this approach to them is that they probably do not want to work, they probably want to be at home, and they probably wouldn't want to learn Danish either. That is certainly not the impression I have of the people I am visiting. They really want to participate in Danish society. They want to be part of Danish society, but they probably find that we do not treat them as equals, and that we do not get the citizenship that I think is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132527	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132528	I think that people can be treated both well and equally and at the same time make demands. I think it is particularly fair in this area, i.e. about permanent residence, but also, of course, when you apply for citizenship and move forward, that we as a country make strict demands on you, for example. must have provided for oneself, that one must take part in society, that one must master the language and, of course, also keep oneself out of crime. It is not, of course, the same as saying that we do not believe that the people who seek to stay here actually want to be part of Danish society. But you just have to say that it is a privilege to have a permanent stay in Denmark, and that is why it is also something you have to reach out for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132623	Thank you. There are a few more brief comments. The next one is from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132627	Thank you. Does the Minister think that it is best for integration and the Minister is after all the Minister for Integration that a young person who lives here in Denmark may have lived here for years and may have been born here, trained or takes unskilled work?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132649	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132650	In fact, I find that difficult to answer. Of course, I pay tribute to the fact that education is also being taken. I think that is an important part of living and living in Denmark. We have a fundamental tradition of this, and it is also some of the things that make the country richer. But for me, it is very much about • I know where Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen wants to go that you support yourself and have done so for a period of time if you want to have a permanent stay.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132726	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132728	I am asking because you do not get points for training if you want to have a permanent stay. You get points for work. This means that there are some young people who are motivated to take unskilled jobs rather than to take an education. I have no doubt that this is really bad for integration, and I also thought that the Minister was very concerned that young people from other ethnic backgrounds were being educated. I know this has always been quite fundamental to integration policy, but okay, let us concentrate on the bottom line. The minister says that you have to work, that you have to support yourself in order to be able to have a permanent stay. That is then the argument that education does not count, despite the fact that we run the risk of some young people opting out of education. But at the same time, in his reply to me, the Minister said that it pays off to society that it helps to make the country richer... was the Minister's word that young people are educating themselves. So even if we look only at the bottom line and do not care about people and integration, is it not right that it is worth motivating young people to take an education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132835	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132836	I simply do not think that training should be included in the employment requirement. We already tightened the rules in 2016 in this field. Well, that worked out, among other things. I believe, as I said in my speech, that training should no longer be included in the calculation of the employment requirement. That is because employment is the focal point, and I think that is the way it should be. But that does not mean that we do not have to train, quite the opposite. So I don't think you can put things against each other. It is just an expression of the fact that the possibility of obtaining permanent residence permits should therefore be reserved for those who actively associate with Danish society through work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132934	There's one more questioner, and that's Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323132939	Thank you. This is really just a question, because the left is now showing that tight demands on people lead to poor integration. They must then take the view that relaxing requirements leads to better integration. I would just like to ask for a good order, because I grew up in the 1980s and know the whole discussion from there on, where there were virtually no demands, and I do not exactly think that the integration effort at that time was flashing. I do not know how many were actually integrated. Too many have not been, and I would like the Minister to comment on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133017	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133019	I believe that integration is very dependent on having the courage to make demands on the people who come to Denmark, and I also believe in fact that it is an unusual pauvert human vision if you do not make demands on each other. Then it's because you don't think of each other as anything. If you want to achieve the privilege of obtaining a permanent residence permit in Denmark or taking the step forward to obtaining a citizenship, it is certainly appropriate that you make the right demands, I think, also very firm demands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133054	But I was just about to say that it would be the same as someone who wants to take a driving licence, and they said: if you just get in the car, you end up as an elite driver at some point without even complying with the rules of the road. But what I would like to know is: what is actually the starting point for this discussion we are having? I would say that it is not a question of necessarily simply becoming an equal citizen of Denmark. What must be the purpose of the stay here must be to provide protection and, of course, people must return to their own country when there is peace.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133131	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133133	I don't think sir. Christian Langballe will try to convince me in this discussion. I think it is more important to convince others in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133143	We are therefore grateful to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133200	We are addressing the range of rapporteurs who are in place. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133215	Thank you. Should the police be able to reject asylum seekers at the border if the European refugee system has actually collapsed? We shall discuss this today. The proposal is inspired by a similar arrangement in Norway. The number of asylum seekers has been considerably reduced over the past year, but we regard it as a common diligence to allow the authorities to deal with the situations that we can no longer reject will arise. Social democracy therefore fundamentally welcomes the proposal. By the end of 2015, the whole of Europe witnessed huge flows of refugees across Europe. The authorities in several countries had actually given up enforcing their own legislation, and among other things. Our neighbouring Sweden and Germany experienced for a time losing track of the refugee situation. Social democracy is working to ensure that this situation does not arise again. That is why we have supported the repression of the Islamic State, which is one of several sources of the flow of refugees, which is why we support EU cooperation on the guarding of the external border in the Mediterranean and the Dublin Regulation, which is intended to prevent people seeking asylum in several countries, which is why we support the EU's refugee agreement with Turkey and hope that similar agreements can be concluded with governments in North Africa, which is why we are fully aware that Europeans are going to spend very, very many tax dollars in the coming years on emergency aid and the establishment of more stable nations in the Middle East and Africa. However, if all this fails, if we once again end up in a situation of penetration in Europe, if we may even see a breakdown in the European agreements to register asylum seekers in the first country and distribute asylum seekers according to the rules in force, then the Social Democratic Party supports that the government in office must at all times be able to change the existing border controls for the regular rejection of asylum seekers, provided, of course, that rejection occurs if they try to enter from a safe country. It is vital for the Social Democrats that the special state is only initiated in exceptional situations. In this connection, we have noted the consultation response of Danish Refugee Aid, in which they propose that the Norwegian criteria for the activation of the emergency brake should also be included in the Danish bill. In Norway, reception capacity must be challenged, contingency plans must be put in place and all options in the existing acquis must be exhausted before the government withdraws from the emergency brake. We would like to ask the Social Democrats more why the Danish Government did not want to be just as specific in describing the circumstances that should trigger the emergency brake on our border. In addition, the Children's Council writes that minors unaccompanied children should not be separated from their family, who can of course reside on the Danish side of the border. The organisation calls, inter alia, for: that Denmark's obligations under the Children's Convention are specifically laid down in the draft law's observations. The Social Democratic Party considers this to be entirely reasonable and a reasonable objection, and we are therefore pleased that, after the consultation round, the government has amended the bill so that Denmark's obligations are clarified. We in the Social Democratic Party will be aware of whether this clarification is satisfactory or whether there is a need to deepen further the specific legal situation of asylum seekers. For social democracy, it is of course crucial that no unaccompanied children are left to themselves. Of course, all children must be guaranteed a safe stay in a safe state. The discussion is about which secure state and how and when it is decided. However, as I said, the Social Democrats are extremely pleased that we can now deal with this bill and we look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133545	There is a brief comment from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133549	I have two questions. The first is: Does the Social Democratic Party believe that this so-called emergency brake should have entered into force in 2015 if this law had existed at that time? Did the Dublin Regulation not work at that time? And the second is: if there is now no change in relation to the possibility of rejecting unaccompanied children at the border, if we do nothing to take account of Save the Children, Danish Refugee Aid and others' concerns about the children fleeing alone, will we still vote in favour of the bill? Or can consideration of the child's best interests and concern for children who have fled alone get the Social Democrats to vote against this bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133641	Thank you for the questions. To the first on whether it should have entered into force in 2015: I think that is difficult to answer when you have not sat in a government office and had an overview of what authority situation there was in Denmark and in our neighbouring countries at that time. However, it is quite obvious that the Dublin Regulation did not work optimally at the end of 2015. On the second question: our opinion is that we agree with the government. But I can see that there is the matter with the unaccompanied children, namely that they must of course be protected. We must respect the Children's Convention to the letter. But I can see from the debate in the media here in the last half-days that there are several different views on that. That is why I have included in my rapporteur's speech that it is one of the things that we want to make sure one hundred percent does not necessarily mean that all unaccompanied children are admitted to Denmark, because if they are staying in Germany, a safe country, and they have no family in Denmark and have no relations on the Danish side of the border, I see no reason why Denmark should have a special responsibility in such a situation where the Dublin system has collapsed, which Germany does not have, in order to deal with their asylum case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133752	I think that one of the problems with this bill is that it is very unclear when this emergency brake should enter into force, because there are precisely the wordings here that if the Dublin regulation is to be sent back to the first country that you are registered in the country where you are not working, it can enter into force. I think there are many who would say that the Dublin Regulation is not working at this stage. We have a country like Greece to which a European Court of Human Rights judgment cannot be sent back. We have not been able to send very vulnerable people at times, for example. children's families, back to Italy. So I actually think it's a relevant question to ask if 2015 would be a year in which the Social Democratic Party would think this emergency brake should come into effect. Or can the Social Democratic Party explain in detail when it will enter into force? I don't think it's obvious. I think it's a very unclear bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133845	I understand Enhedslisten's rapporteur, and I also feel that I would rather have it looked like in the Norwegian law, where a little more precise description is made of a number of different criteria, among others. In this context, it should be noted that the acquis has not yet been fully implemented and that the acquis has not yet been fully implemented. That is also why I said in my rapporteur's speech that this is one of the things we would like to ask a few questions about, including what the Minister has done about when it can be put into effect. But I would also like to say that we have a government that is the executive and that is the one that has an overview of whether the authorities are under pressure and whether the management of the flow of refugees by our neighbouring countries is so under pressure that we could say that the Dublin Regulation has collapsed. We will always be confident that the government in office will make the sensible decision at all times. Our task as Parliament is not to discuss whether it is in detail, for example. By 2015, it would have entered into force. We need to ensure that there are proper criteria for when to enter into force and then we have a government to be the executive when that situation arises.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133943	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323133947	Thank you. I'd like to ask Mr. Mattias Tesfaye on the situation in our neighbouring countries, and Germany is probably the most obvious here. It has a role to play in the situation in Germany, for, on Social Democracy and Mr. Mattias Tesfaye wants to activate this law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134012	Yes, and I think that is also fairly clear from the draft law, namely that the emergency brake will have to be put into effect if the Dublin system has actually collapsed. And there is probably Germany the most crucial piece in the interpretation of whether it has collapsed. So yes, the whole situation in Germany is at the heart of much of the foreign policy we are discussing in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134040	I'm afraid I wasn't clear enough. I'm so sorry. Because what it was all about was, in fact, if the Dublin Regulation is somehow out of force. It is also unclear to me, in relation to the draft law, what the criteria are for when it will be considered out of place. But what I really meant was that, if that is what the assessment is, then the situation in Germany is very likely, as the Children's Council also points out, serious. Then our neighbours also have a proper task in terms of receiving, for example, unaccompanied refugee children. Does it matter to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134121	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134122	If I understand the question correctly here the second time, because I can sense that I didn't do it the first time, then yes. Of course, we should not end up in a situation where we reject children trying to enter a country where their safety is not guaranteed. I think that is actually quite clear from the comments made by the draft law. Whether it is an EU country or another country that is party to the Dublin Regulation, it is of course absolutely essential that we do not reject countries that the authorities in Denmark do not consider safe. We must be able to say with certainty that they will not be subjected to torture or persecution or abuse. Of course that's clear. However, just because the Dublin Regulation has collapsed does not necessarily mean that the security situation has collapsed in the EU countries we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134209	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134213	Thank you. This is actually quite the same track, because I think there is a contradiction in what the rapporteur says. The rapporteur would like to contribute to an immediate slowing down at the border if the Minister considers that the Dublin Regulation has collapsed, but if the Dublin Regulation has collapsed, that means that we are prepared to reject the children of refugees at the border with what? I do not think it is clear what the position of the Social Democrats is in terms of accepting that we reject refugee children at the border, and where are we sending these children? Is it okay for them to live on the streets and straits, or do you imagine an agreement with Germany, or how do we ensure that these children do not just end up in no-man's-land?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134304	The alternative rapporteur asks: to what? If they try to enter Germany, it is after all Germany, and then it is the responsibility of the German Government to ensure that they receive the treatment they need. It is true that this may not be what they dreamed of. Perhaps they dreamed of coming to Denmark or Sweden. But we must also insist that refugees have no right to choose where they will seek protection. They have the right to protection, and we must go a long way to ensure that everyone is protected, but we cannot end up in a situation where they are entitled to protection in precisely Denmark. If the Dublin Regulation has collapsed, it will mean that there will be going through Europe, that people themselves will go where they want to seek asylum, and there I think there will be an imminent risk that relatively many will seek towards the Nordic welfare states, and then Denmark, together with Sweden and Norway, will also end up being the end point for refugee flows. I think it would be totally irresponsible if, as a Parliament, we did not give the government the authority to say in such a situation that the people who are staying in a safe country, for example. Germany, it could also be Poland or Sweden, stay in those countries. It is also countries that are party to the refugee convention that have signed up to human rights, and then they are responsible for ensuring that children or adults or disabled people, or whoever they are, receive the proper treatment they naturally need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134426	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134430	I do not think the rapporteur fully answers my question, because what is needed to ensure that these refugee children do not end up in a limbo if the Dublin Convention has collapsed? What is it that says that Denmark should then be able to say: we will not accept them, we will immediately reject them at the border? After all, I hear the rapporteur say that this is very important for the rapporteur and I am very glad that the rapporteur wants to make sure that we comply with the Children's Convention. So what exactly is the rapporteur going to do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134504	It is, of course, absolutely essential that no person, no asylum seeker, should end up in a limbo, but it is also important to stick to the fact that they stand on Danish soil and say asylum, it is Denmark that has the obligations arising from the conventions to process their asylum applications and ensure them safety and, in particular, the safety to which they are entitled. If they are on German soil, then it is not Denmark's responsibility, just as it is not Denmark's responsibility if they are on the land of Austria or Spain or Yemen. Right now there are plenty of children in Yemen who need protection, but we are not discussing that in the Parliamentary Chamber. We must take responsibility for the people who stand on Danish soil and say asylum. As I said, I think we should go a long way, but we have no particular responsibility for asylum seekers staying in all sorts of other countries. There Denmark has no particular responsibility for having to make an agreement with the nations or making sure that if they come to Denmark, they have one or the other right. So it is quite essential to stick to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134558	We would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134605	Thank you. In the 2017 Finance Act, the Danish People's Party and the Government agreed that an emergency brake should be introduced into the Danish Aliens Act. The emergency brake is inspired by an amendment to the Norwegian Aliens Act, which makes it possible to reject asylum seekers at the border if there is a crisis situation that puts the border under pressure. In autumn 2015, Denmark experienced a huge influx of asylum seekers and migrants. This brought pressure on the authorities, and this caused the police to completely lose control of how many foreigners entered Denmark. Our authorities could no longer ensure the maintenance of order in society. Here we witnessed an incipient collapse of our rule of law, of state power. The government, along with the PET and the National Police, emerged as an actor, and ordinary police officers were unable to deal satisfactorily with the situation due to lack of political leadership. The situation was the result of the EU gradually depriving the Kingdom of Denmark of independence and scope for action. For decades, the EU and the EU-positive parties have gradually deprived Denmark of the ability and will to defend itself and its own people. We are still suffering from this today, although we have rebuilt some of the broken down with the current border controls and other measures. What we saw in autumn 2015 was horrible to witness. I fully understand the frustrations expressed by many Danes. Dansk Folkeparti has previously suggested that Denmark should copy the Norwegian model. At that time it was rejected by the government, but in the context of the financial law negotiations it managed to obtain a majority in favour of this new approach, and I would, of course, like to sign for that. The Danish People's Party considers it crucial that the authorities have the necessary tools to deal with a crisis situation where there is an increase in the number of migrants and asylum seekers who enter Denmark. Unfortunately, it is very difficult to provide the necessary tools to the authorities because, as I said, the European Union, with the support of a majority in the Folketing, has tried gradually to break down the measures that characterise a nation. A nation should be in the Danish People's Party we would like to go further than this bill, and we will come back to that in a moment when we are dealing with a proposal to reject asylum seekers at the border all days, all year round, and not just in so-called crisis situations. The Danish People's Party certainly does not agree with all the comments accompanying the proposal, because common EU solutions are by no means the way forward. The solution is, above all, more national austerity, and that is what we are working on. All in all, this bill gives greater competence to Danish authorities, to the Danish government and thus to the Danish Parliament and Denmark as a whole. And with these comments I can say that the Danish People's Party can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134851	Thank you. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134857	Thank you. As far as I remember, there is 68 km of border between Denmark and Germany, and with this proposal people who are stopped on the border will be told: You have to go to Germany; turn around and walk away; you cannot have your case dealt with here in Denmark. However, there are not so many places where there is a real border with customs officials, and there is no wall either. So you can walk 100 m or 500 m, then you can walk over a field, and then you are on Danish soil. And when you stand on Danish soil, you have to have your case handled. I wonder whether the Danish People's Party really thinks it would be sensible to build a 68 km long wall on the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323134947	We have no plans to build a wall on the border, but we plan to have more border controls and to have more people at the border so that crossing the border becomes even more difficult. It is true that the border controls we have today, from the point of view of the Danish People's Party, are working, because there are up to 3 000 people who have been rejected at the border • migrants who have had to turn back on the border itself and we are very satisfied with that. However, we would like even more people to be rejected at the border, and that, of course, also requires that we have more people on the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135018	But wouldn't it be the case that unless you like to make a chain of policemen holding hands 68 km in a line or putting up a fence or a wall, there will be places where people can just walk over? And in the second you pass, you can have your case dealt with in Denmark. So I don't really understand why the Danish People's Party, if that's how you should follow your thinking... if we're gonna call it that... a wall or a fence. So, how else will the Danish People's Party prevent people from just going into Denmark and thus having the right to have their case dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135057	But if Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen would very much like the Danish People's Party to support a wall, then I just think that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen should say so. I do not know whether this indicates that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen would like somebody else to go out and suggest that there should be a wall. Well, I don't know. Otherwise, it's a little weird to keep asking about it. We would like to strengthen border controls. We would like even more border controls. We'd like to get more people down at the border. And the border controls we have now work. The asyl count falls; there are approx. 1 200 people who have been charged at or close to the border because they have been taken by border controls for all kinds of crime. Three thousand illegal migrants, who have not had the papers in order, have been rejected at the border and have had to return to the border itself. It's because we have border controls. So even with the people we have at the border, even if we don't have enough people at the border, it works. And, of course, when we see that something is working, we need to expand it, which is why we want more people at the border. Then it is the case that nothing will ever be 100 per cent safe, but one might as well try to achieve it, and that is what we are seeking from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135155	The next question is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135158	Thank you. I have taken the floor because I think there was much criticism of EU cooperation in the rapporteur's speech. I am wondering whether we would have reached an agreement with Turkey if there were no EU cooperation. Had we had a Dublin regulation, which everything else equal is to Denmark's advantage if there had not been an EU cooperation? Had we had a common European Frontex patrol in the Mediterranean? If one now imagined that Europe was being dissolved in nation states, there would not be a huge risk that the flows of refugees would end in North and Western Europe and that it would be completely impossible for Denmark to deal with, for example, the situation. to send asylum seekers who have applied for asylum in another European country? So, isn't the Danish People's Party afraid that the very critical approach to the EU really helps to save over the branch that the party itself is actually sitting on?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135257	No, certainly not. The reason why, for example, we have to do this. After all, the very large influx in 2015 was that the existing EU rules collapsed. Schengen, the Dublin Regulation, the security of the external borders collapsed, so it was the European Union that had built up a system, some rules, some measures, some external borders, and when it was clear to everyone that it collapsed, it could be discussed whether it ever worked, it was precisely that we had the great influx. So it is the European Union that has taken over some competences from the nation states and, as they have taken over some competences from the nation states, you can see that things have gone wrong more and more. If we did not have the European Union or the European Union decided less, we could decide for ourselves how long we would have border controls in Denmark. Today we're gonna ask permission. There are different interpretations of the Dublin Regulation, but the draft law says that until the Dublin Regulation was adopted, we could reject asylum seekers at the border. There was an agreement between Denmark and Germany, which was an agreement between Denmark and the other Nordic countries. So, in many ways, the European Union has created the problems. I think that the best thing would be to have a democracy based on the nation state, and if the voters of that state want to vote for some politicians, such as those in the United States. want to close the border and reject asylum seekers at the border, then you can do so, and then you should not first ask the EU for legislation. In fact, I think that would be the most honest thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135416	But if you imagined that we had not had EU cooperation, but that we had had one hundred percent sovereign nation states across the continent, and there had been a flood of refugees that we saw in 2015, for example. Italy and Greece, it would be absolutely impossible for them to deal with such a situation, and then there is nothing to say that they wanted to make a policy of waving, that is to say open the border and not register anyone, but just open them up through Europe. Therefore, it must be in Denmark's interest to have a common management of the flows of refugees so that they do not end up in the most prosperous welfare states. So is the task not to make European cooperation work instead of doing the opposite, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is doing from the platform now, namely to talk it down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135500	Well, in the time when the European Union has had control over that area, if they ever had it, they have just let people move on to the other countries. So did Hungary, and many countries have done so. The Italians have been doing this for years. There has been common EU regulation in this area for a very, very long time and it has not worked. It has failed, and that is why we are facing the problems we are facing now. There are still a great many asylum seekers coming to the European Union as a whole. It may be that there are a little fewer people coming in from Turkey, but then they come from other places. Moreover, I am not convinced that the agreement reached between the European Union and Turkey is the solution. I believe that the solution is to a large extent that individual countries take care to reject asylum seekers. If Greece had to have the policy for the European Union that they rejected asylum seekers who tried to come in from Turkey, then they would reject them. If the Italians did so, and if they did so in Spain, where, moreover, they do so more than in Italy, as I understand it, it would mean that the European Union and Europe would appear much less attractive because each nation state had the opportunity to close down. We should have that opportunity in Denmark, and we will have that with this bill. In any case, we suggest that in certain situations we can decide that Denmark is allowed to close down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135609	Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative, as the next one asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135612	Thank you. I would like to ask whether the Danish People's Party will support the fact that it is important that Denmark does not break the Children's Convention in relation to the unaccompanied refugee children at the border. There are doubts as to whether we are breaking the Children's Convention by rejecting these children - what is the Danish People's Party's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135636	We do not make policy on the basis of what is stated in the conventions, and I think it is quite right that people on the Danish-German border should be rejected. After all, you are in Germany, and I think it is perfectly justifiable to say that a minor asylum seeker may then be in Denmark instead of in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135656	So what I hear is that the Danish People's Party will not live up to the Children's Convention. Does the rapporteur have no empathy for the children who stand all alone at the border without their mother and father? We're talking about an individual who has escaped from home without any family and has come all the way to Denmark, and who we saw with this bill can stop at the border. How do the Danish People's Party and the rapporteur feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135730	In other words, if you are in the specific situation at the border, I think it would be very natural for you to have sympathy for a minor asylum seeker who would like to enter Denmark, but that does not mean that you should let him in. First of all, my empathy lies with Danish children and young people, as we can see in nightlife or so many other places more insecurity, increased crime, immigrant gangs etc. After all, this is the result of a very, very large influx to Denmark. So I actually believe that what we are doing here and the austerity that we are adopting is something that shows that we have empathy for future generations of children and young people who grow up in Denmark because it helps to ensure that they can have a safer society than that would be the case if we just continue to have the influx that we know creates insecurity, which we know in some areas creates increased crime, parallel societies, extremism, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135820	Since there is apparently something that the Danish People's Party has not clarified in the group room, I would like to give Mr. Christian Langballe the word for a brief remark. It's not very considerate of the others, but here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135834	In other words, we can ask for more detailed comments on a debate that is running, and I hope that the President will understand that. But that's just the thing about this rhetorical exaggeration that we want to build a wall because we want border controls. I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not true that Denmark has had border controls for a thousand years and that the small span of time when we have not had border controls is a parenthesis in the history of Denmark and that we have had border controls because a nation means defending one's border.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135912	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135913	I fully agree with Mr. Christian Langballe and thank you for that good remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135919	Well, that was pretty lucky for the party, you might say. And there was no further comment from Mr. Christian Langballe? In other words, we thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323135934	Thank you, President. Time's asylum rate shows that the government's austerity is working. Some of us in this Chamber are really happy about that. There are also some who are not so happy about it, but we are happy about it because that is actually what we went to the polls for. Denmark has gone from a relative 5th place to a relative 9th place to a relative 14th place over the countries of the European Union that receive the most refugees, and, as I said, I am pleased about that. Because you can just look at Sweden and look at what happened last year: Sweden received about 30,000 asylum seekers, while Denmark received just 6,000, and if you look at the preliminary figures from this year, you can see that the curve continues to go down. And we once went to the polls to sort out the influx. But if there's one thing we've learned from this whole refugee crisis, it's how fast things can turn around. We saw that back in 2015, when a lot of people wandered up the highway on my home Lolland, and unfortunately there are a lot of variables in this equation. There's the Balkan route. Fortunately, it's under control right now and there's the Turkey agreement. Can it become fragile in relation to what is going on? Unfortunately, there is the route across the Mediterranean, it is wide open and, as I said, it is still pouring away into Sweden. So it is not because asylum seekers do not come up against Scandinavia, they just do not seek against Denmark on the same scale as before. However, precisely because the situation can change so quickly, we need to have a tool that we can tackle if the situation should go and develop to ensure that there is again a great deal of pressure on the Danish borders. With this bill, the government is proposing that we introduce, as it were, an emergency brake which can be activated if the Minister considers that the Dublin system has actually collapsed. This means that, in exceptional cases, the Danish authorities will be allowed to refuse asylum seekers on entry from another Dublin country as long as the situation makes sense to be able to do so, and it is a very sensible measure to protect Denmark. For I honestly believe that there are a great many Danes who, especially since there was pressure on the Danish borders, simply cannot understand why, if a fugitive comes up through Europe, who migrates from a safe country to a safe country, we should not be able to reject that person at the Danish border, especially when there are many. There we now have a tool that can be used to control the situation if it should arise. That is why we in the Left are very, very happy that there are responsible parties in the Danish Parliament who take this challenge seriously and who support our legislative proposal and therefore, of course, the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140228	There is one brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140234	Thank you. I would like to ask what it is that is specifically needed in order for the Minister to be able to close the border. Because that has not been fully explained in the draft law. So what are some elements that need to be present before this will be put into effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140249	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140250	In my view, this is very well summed up by an assessment that the Dublin system really does not work anymore. As I mentioned before, there are really, very many different moving parts here, and we do not have all the parts under control ourselves. There are the various routes via the Balkans and via the Mediterranean. How many have come to Germany? Is border controls still down through Europe? Do we have a feeling how many people are on the border right now? In other words, there are many different parts, and that is why I think it is right, very good, that it is an assessment which is up to the Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140322	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140323	Would the situation we saw last time when there were a great many refugees have been a situation in which the Minister would have had the power to close the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140334	Now the Minister did not have the power to close the border at that time. However, I would like to say in more detail that the situation we saw there in autumn 2015 is one of the main reasons why we have just made this bill. Because we fear what will happen if a similar situation arises again. I am not going to be able to say on behalf of the Minister whether the brakes had been put in there yes or no but it is in any case inspired by the situation that we have made this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140402	Then we thank the rapporteur of the Left and move on to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen's Enhedslisten's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140412	If Denmark were in a situation where the countries around us did not take part in their responsibilities for people on the run, if Germany and Sweden just let the refugees walk through and did not grant asylum to anyone and did not register any data, then one might consider giving the minister an opportunity to reject asylum seekers on the border and say: you must have your case dealt with in Germany or in Sweden. That is just not the situation, on the contrary, it is very, very far from it. The situation is that both Germany and Sweden take huge responsibility for people fleeing. Both Germany and Sweden are doing everything they can to register all the asylum seekers and all the refugees who are in their countries. In these years, however, the Danish Government is doing everything it can to send out signals into the world that Denmark will not take responsibility in the area of refugees, and I clearly see this proposal as part of that campaign. Of the elements which, moreover, are included in this campaign, I can say in a nutshell that Denmark has reduced the living conditions of refugees here in Denmark with the express aim of deterring refugees from finding their way to us, and that the government has put advertisements in newspapers in Lebanon, where this is how strict the policy is in Denmark. In addition, the Danish Ombudsman has criticized the adverts. After all, Denmark has received tons of negative publicity because of the highly debated jewellery law, which also aimed to scare people from seeking protection and shelter from bombs and torture here in Denmark. Then it is also the case that the Danish Government has chosen to drop the 500 annual quota refugees which, as far as I remember, we have otherwise withdrawn from 1979. All of this is like the Danish Government's response to the world-historical refugee crisis that we are facing, and it is in this context that we are going to see today's bill. There are no tens of thousands of refugees waiting at the border in Flensburg, and there are no tens of thousands walking around the motorways of South Jutland or Lolland. The Balkans route is closed and the number of asylum seekers in northern Europe has fallen dramatically. Once again, the richest countries in northern Europe have managed to shift the responsibility for refugees back to the less prosperous countries of southern Europe and, above all, the even poorer countries that border directly on the war zones. This bill is the wrong signal. It is a signal that Denmark, which is thus a co-founder of the United Nations and the Council of Europe and previously known as a pioneer country for human rights and development aid, will not take responsibility and that one will close oneself. We can just imagine for a moment that this bill infected. Let us imagine that this so-called emergency brake was set in motion and that Denmark said no, we reject all, adults as children, including children who have no parents, on the border, and let us imagine that Germany said the same thing, that no, they reject all, they do not want to deal with any asylum-seekers, and that then infected down there, what would happen then? Indeed, it would happen that Italy, Greece and Spain, in other words those countries which happen to have the external borders of the European Union, would have to deal with all asylum seekers, and then we know that those countries would collapse. It is quite uncommon short-term and deeply unsolidarous to go into this direction and to send that signal out into Europe. If you then zoom in on the bill itself, it is in itself a huge problem that it is so completely unclear. It says that once the Dublin Regulation has stopped working, the minister in office can set this emergency brake in motion at any time. The Dublin Regulation is the rule here that an asylum seeker can be sent back to the first country in which he was registered. But it does not say when the Dublin Regulation will not work. Well, when do you think it doesn't work? I am sure that there are some who believe that it does not work today, and there are certainly some who believe that it did not work in 2015. We have a situation in which the European Court of Human Rights has ruled, which means that asylum seekers cannot be returned to Greece as a result of the Dublin Regulation. In other words, it is very, very unclear legislation. We give the minister in office the mandate, the right, at the border, to say to children: Turn around, you cannot come here. And to people on the run from Assad's barrel bombs and from the Islamic State one can say: Turn around, we don't even want to look at your case. However, it is quite unclear when the Minister may use the legislation. We cannot support the proposal. Firstly, it is a wrong signal, and secondly, we think it is unclear, including with regard to children. I really think that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radicals said very well: how small can it be? So, what do we imagine from the Left, the Danish People's Party, the SF and the Social Democrats? Should Danish border guards say to children who stand at the border without parents: Go away? How small can it be? We're not voting for this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140954	Thank you. One person has asked for a brief comment. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323140959	There is an overall problem with this discussion, namely that it is very hypothetical. There's a lot of ifs ifs, and it happens, if it gets like that and so, how then? And I think that was very clearly illustrated by Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's first remarks. She says that if the asylum system has collapsed in Germany, if it has collapsed in Sweden, if it has collapsed in a number of other European countries, then we can consider an emergency brake such as this one. But aren't those exactly the whoses that this bill is trying to take into account?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141045	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen must have an overwhelming amount of confidence in the Minister, because this bill means that the current minister will have the right to decide that now we reject children who come without parents, at the Danish border: turn around, walk away, we don't want to look at you! It is the current minister who will have that competence and, as far as I can understand on the Left and on the Minister, it is believed that it should have entered into force by 2015. Imagine that the SF has such great confidence in the Minister that it is believed that the Minister should have the right to make such a decision. I have no confidence in the Minister in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141139	Well, that's not what I'm asking. We will come back to that question afterwards. What I was asking was: did not Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen say that we would like a situation in which Enhedslisten would also support an emergency brake?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141200	Yes. Let us imagine that Germany does not deal with any asylum applications at all and simply says: we do not grant asylum to anyone. And let us imagine that Sweden is doing the same. In that situation, I'd like to think about something like this. But that is not the situation we are in. Holger K. Nielsen. The bill we are now adopting means that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and SF give the Minister for Integration the right to reject children at the border if the Minister considers that it is best for Denmark. And as I understand the Minister and as I understand the Left, it seems that it could have entered into force in 2015. I am very surprised that the SF will vote for such a policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141245	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next in line is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141254	As several rapporteurs have explained very well, this is a proposal which will ensure that Denmark is prepared if we suddenly again find ourselves in a situation where the number of asylum seekers is increasing significantly. This is not a situation we are in right now; on the contrary, we are currently seeing the results of the austerity that has been carried out, namely relatively low asylum rates. And that's a good thing. And I am quite sure that the government is obscene and will do everything they can to ensure that the figure does not rise. But we do not know what can happen in the big world; the situation can change, and in that case we also in the Liberal Alliance think it is crucial that we have taken a position on how it should be handled and that we have the right preparedness ready, and that ensures this proposal. The proposal specifically states that asylum seekers can be rejected at the border, and that cannot be done today, but if Dublin cooperation collapses, we support the idea that this proposal can be activated and asylum seekers rejected at the border. So we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141405	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141416	Thank you. As the other rapporteurs have examined, this draft law allows the Minister to reject asylum seekers at the border in an emergency. Specifically, the proposal allows the police to reject asylum seekers at the border and send them back if there is a so-called crisis situation in which Dublin cooperation is formally still in place, but where, in the opinion of the Danish Government and the Minister, cooperation has in fact ceased to function. A great many places are referred to the situation that was in autumn 2015 when we saw refugees on our roads. In the alternative, we see that the proposal actually allows the government to remove the essential legal guarantees which aim to ensure the protection of refugees and asylum seekers when they reach our borders. In the extreme, the proposal could mean that asylum seekers risk being sent around the European countries without any country assuming responsibility for dealing with this asylum application if everyone copied the Danish and Norwegian examples and, moreover, considered that this is a crisis situation. I think this is particularly problematic for unaccompanied minors, which we have already discussed here today. Therefore, Danish Refugee Aid also recommends that this group should be completely exempted from this bill and should never be rejected at the Danish border, regardless of whether the proposed emergency brake is implemented, as it would run counter to Denmark's obligations to ensure the best interests of the child under the Children's Convention. I really hope that some of what the Minister will take from the debate here today is to ensure that we comply with the children's convention requirements. It would be quite impossible for the police under the proposed scheme to make an individual assessment of the best interests of an unaccompanied minor child who is adequate and reasonable to meet the Children's Convention requirement that individual consideration of the child should take precedence over the interests of the State and the right to regulate immigration. I am fully in line with the answers to the hearings which criticise the fact that there is no clarification as to when there really is a so-called crisis situation. What, in the view of the government, does it need to do so? After all, the Norwegian model, which has already been mentioned on the platform, has some criteria for what needs to be done. So I hope the Minister will elaborate on what criteria she will emphasise. As I have mentioned, the reader's attention in the comments is repeatedly drawn to the situation in autumn 2015 when we saw people fleeing our Danish motorways. It is absolutely true that the problems around the world came very close to us. It was violent to experience. It was violent to see these people fleeing, who have first made a very dangerous journey across the Mediterranean and finally to go on our motorways. Yes, it was extremely violent to see. But that must by no means remove the focus from the fact that it is really the people it is about, and we must ensure that those people have a decent life. With this bill, it's really hardest for me to lower the boom and reject the problem. And so the problem is people of flesh and blood who are on the run. After all, when the Dublin system is under pressure and the system is faltering in countries at Europe's external borders, it is because we have a large number of people on the run reaching out for our help. This presents some major challenges, including for us in Denmark. But in the alternative, we can't support this bill. We cannot support shutting ourselves down in this way and rejecting these people at the border and passing the problems on to neighbouring countries. Finally, I can ask a rhetorical question. It's called an emergency brake. Whose distress is that we're trying to slow down? I think it should be the distress to which the people on the run are exposed, and not our own. With those words, I would say that the alternative cannot back the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141855	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141859	I could not help but notice that the rapporteur said that these people sail across the Mediterranean and then walk up the motorway on Lolland. When you sail across the Mediterranean, you don't arrive in Lolland, so you arrive at, for example. Italy, which is a safe country. From there you can then move on to e.g. Austria, which is a safe country, without seeking asylum, then moving on through Germany, which is a safe country, without seeking asylum, and then seeking to target Denmark for precisely seeking asylum here, because at that time the conditions were so much more lucrative than in the countries south of us. Can the rapporteur not see that there is something fundamentally wrong with the system whereby people move to a safe country and then move up with one objective, and that is to seek asylum in the country which is not only safe but which has the most lucrative conditions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323141958	If I had to follow that line of thought, Denmark would not have to take any of the refugees who come here, for example. German border. Then we should say to Italy and Greece: Fine, you are the first safe country so that they can stay there and we do not participate in it. In the alternative, we believe that Denmark has a responsibility to treat the refugees who come to Europe properly and to take our share of responsibility. That is why, in the alternative, we propose, of course, that there should be a common solution in the European Union. It would be a good idea for us to agree on this and for Denmark to take the lead in getting European solutions in this area. But the fact that they are wandering through Europe does not make them refugees. So no, we must accept them when they stand at the Danish border and they must be able to apply for refugee status. Then we will deal with their case as we do today, in other words whether they get that status or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142051	After all, the whole foundation of the Dublin Regulation is precisely that we should seek asylum in the first safe country to which we come. Does this mean that the rapporteur is opposed to the European Union's Dublin Regulation? And if I may add an additional question: can the rapporteur imagine such a large number? I mean, every day thousands of people arrive in countries like Italy. What if 5,000, 10,000 or 20,000 refugees arrived on a daily basis at the Danish border? In other words, there is an upper figure in which the rapporteur thinks that if there are so many, we also have to close the border for the sake of our own security. These are two questions: is the rapporteur against the Dublin Regulation and is there an upper limit on how many refugees can come before the rapporteur thinks we have to do something?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142140	I am by no means opposed to the Dublin system. But what I was specifically asked about was whether I think it is right that we should welcome the people who have walked through Europe. That is at least how I understood the question, and that is where I would say: yes, in the second they stand at the Danish border and seek asylum, we must of course deal with their case. Compared to the upper limit, it's that game of numbers that we've been out many times. Of course there is an upper limit and there is also an upper limit for Europe. That is why we need to put ourselves together in Europe and find common solutions to how we welcome these refugees. That is why, in the alternative, we are actually in favour of saying: should we not take a significant number of quota refugees into Europe and then create a distribution key in Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142223	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142236	In the Radical Left, we are quite convinced that realistic solutions to the challenges we face in Europe will be found to deal with situations where many people flee against Europe from war. And one of the reasons why we are convinced of this is that the solutions are already on the table in Europe. A majority of Europe's governments support those solutions. These are solutions that must be binding and they mean that we strengthen both control and work at the external borders of the European Union and that we do not leave the task of registering, treating and distributing refugees who come from war, death and destruction and are entitled to protection alone to Greece and Italy. Because somehow it goes without saying that they cannot handle that task alone. However, the proposals on the table do not just require a majority. They demand that all countries back up and, for example, the Danish Government does not support finding sustainable and common binding solutions. I really believe that we need an emergency brake on symbolism policy here in the Folketing more than we need a protection against ten-year-old refugee children. And for us, children are children, and that is why the Radical Left cannot support the idea that this bill will make it possible to say to a Danish police officer: you must stand on the border and you must reject a 10-year-old Syrian girl. You must tell her that she must return here, because we are concerned with what place we have on the list of countries that receive refugees. As the Children's Council also points out in the hearings, in practice this will mean that in cases where Dublin cooperation has been put out of effect and the criteria for it are quite unclear to me too, the country to which Denmark rejects, namely Germany, will come under presumably much greater pressure and will either not be considered as a safe country and certainly not a country to which only additional tasks can be entrusted. So it doesn't solve anything. As Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said, it is a question of just thinking one step further forward. Because if everyone did, what would be the consequences? As far as I can see, this is in no way explained in the draft law. We have not dealt with this at all. On the one hand, it is said in general terms that Europe must find solutions, not in the draft law, but in the public debate. But on the other hand, they are being resisted intensively. Then there are the very specific things. It is not at all clear to me how, when and by what criteria the assessment of whether or not Dublin cooperation is out of place will take place. Nor is it clear to me when this is a crisis situation. What are the criteria? What are the criteria by which this law can be activated? It's just a matter of leaving it up to a government. Is it, if Germany does not take responsibility and does not carry out a task, that we say that it will enter into force? It is not my impression that in the draft law there are any assessments at all of what the situation is, moreover, among our collaborators or perhaps so-called collaborators. It is not my impression that assessments have in any way been taken into account. That is why the Radical Left cannot support such a short-term and symbolic bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142723	There is one brief question from Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142727	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think that the radical rapporteur, both today and perhaps also a little in the media, is equally picturesque and dramatic, and perhaps also a little lame in his interpretation of what is the content of this bill. Now the policeman must stand on the border and say to the 10-year-old: No, you must not enter Denmark and get protection. Now I am here with a reply to the committee on which we are both a member, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, on how many we now receive in the Dublin Regulation, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to other Dublin countries, and I can see that in 2015, as the latest figures are from, we have delivered 1,607 asylum seekers who have registered in another Dublin country. So is it not a completely integrated part of the Danish and European refugee policy that we are of course surrendering people to other countries and that it is not new that a person is standing in a safe country and being told by the Danish state that he must therefore seek asylum there? After all, it is not a huge attack on either a 10-year-old, a 20-year-old or a 30-year-old asylum seeker to seek asylum in Germany, where he is staying, of course, provided that Germany has not completely broken down into anarchy, but that it is a common, safe, democratic country to stay in. I guess this isn't a massive assault. I think the proportions may have slipped a little bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323142854	Well, I also think we should have a good and objective debate. Dublin cooperation is what is in force now, and this bill is about a situation in which it does not cooperate but the criteria for when it is not there are not clear to me. I heard the Social Democrat rapporteur himself stress from the platform that it was not clear to him what criteria it was. Of course, we strongly support Dublin cooperation as a prerequisite for this. What we are talking about is a situation in which, according to some unclear criteria, cooperation does not work and, when it does not work, there is a reason for this. Then it is because refugees have arrived that children too must be assumed to the neighbouring countries we are dealing with. Therefore, it cannot be a solution to anything that we say to our neighbours: you must also take care of those who came to our border, other than those who came to yours, because that is not our task. It will then be a specific situation in which a Danish policeman has to say to a 10-year-old Syrian girl: you have to go to Germany. That is quite specifically the situation we can find ourselves in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143019	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143020	No, it's wrong. What the policeman has to say to the 10-year-old Syrian girl is not: you must go to Germany. What the policeman has to say is, you have to stay in Germany. That's the essence of it. Let us now imagine that there is a similar debate in the Swedish Parliament right now in which they are discussing what to do if a 10-year-old Syrian girl tries to come from Denmark to Sweden in a situation where the Dublin Regulation has collapsed. Would we then see it as very unfair if the Swedish politicians said that they would pull in their emergency brake and expect the Danish community to take care of the 10-year-old Syrian girl? I think it would be perfectly reasonable for Swedish politicians to say that they would establish a situation in which the Swedish Government could do so. That is why it is reasonable that we should be in the same situation. I think it's a little overdramatic. There are plenty of serious issues in the area of refugees, among others. the situation in the whole of the Middle East at the moment and what is happening in Greece. There are plenty of serious things. It is not very serious that a 10-, 16- or 17-year-old should choose to seek asylum in Sweden or in Germany instead of in Denmark. I agree that if he or she has a family in Denmark, he or she must of course go to Denmark and seek asylum with his or her family. But if the person is and is unaccompanied and has no relations in Denmark, why is it so crucial for the Radical Left that it is Denmark that has to deal with the asylum application? I think it's all in the woods.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143144	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143146	What's serious about this bill is that it doesn't relate to what happens in a year, the following year, the next step. What is serious is that the criteria are not specified and that is why I asked about it. Is it because Germany does not take responsibility? Is it Germany that does not carry out a task when we say that the Dublin Convention is, in some sense, out of effect? It must then be assumed that it is also for the Germans, and then it is the same situation that prevails here. Then there must at least be some criteria for when that is the assessment: is it because we think that our neighbours are not undertaking a task? We do not think that they are lifting a task, and that is why we are going to push it over to them. I think it is quite serious if you cannot assess when that is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143239	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143240	I fully agree with the rapporteur that what is extremely serious here is, of course, that we are wiping out the responsibility of some people and saying that we are closing down. Imagine if Germany did the same thing, and imagine if all other countries did the same; then the countries that happen to have the utmost limits would be left where you are now, if I may say so, on the map, facing a huge problem, and I wonder if they would break down. But for that, sir. Mattias Tesfaye says that unaccompanied children are already being sent around Europe today via the Dublin Regulation, I would just like to add that I am familiar with the fact that unaccompanied children are not being sent around Europe via the Dublin Regulation as a result of an EU judgment which concluded that it is contrary to the best interests of the child to send them around in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143333	Thank you and thank you for the question. As some of the consultation responses to this bill also show, this bill threatens children to become throwing balls between EU countries, and we do not think that is fair. It is not exactly as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said that the Dublin Convention is working. Unaccompanied children, children with no relatives, do not become throwing balls between EU countries today. It is the child's best interest that decides that we should deal with their case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143409	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143413	I feel fine covered in that answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143429	Then we thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323143430	This bill reflects the refugee crisis that we are experiencing in Europe in these years............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In this context, there are many different measures that are needed. Many actions are under way: better control at the external borders, assistance in the neighbourhood and, more generally, reception centres in the neighbourhood, the distribution of refugees within the EU. And, of course, we hope that these measures can, like this, enable us to have a situation that we can deal with so that the cohesion of our society can be maintained and that right-wing populists do not get any more wind in the sails. But there may also be a situation where it is not enough, and that is what this bill is trying to take into account. One can discuss why it should be put forward now. I have asked myself that sometimes, but it has once been. Much of this, including the debate, is based on hypothetical scenarios for the future, and that is also what the draft law is trying to address, so that we can get into a situation at a time when we are being so pressured that we have to activate the emergency brake that is here. And I think it's right that we do it. I also noticed that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen would not deny that in certain specific cases an emergency brake might be necessary. And that means that, like everyone in Norwegian Storting, I also sense that there is such a general understanding here in the Folketing that it may be necessary. And I would really like all the parties to express their agreement with that. What the discussion is about is the conditions under which to activate this emergency brake and how to do it. In our opinion, there are some weaknesses in this bill, among others. that it is very unclear how it should be activated. Others have also mentioned it, and that is one of the things that we will be very interested in in in committee. Of course, it should not be the case that the Minister for Integration can suddenly say in her evening prayer that now she wants to activate this contract. It's not possible, it's clear enough. And that is what we have to ask: what is needed then? I note that in the draft law there is in fact a reference to international law where there are such reasonably restrictive conditions for using such an emergency brake. And I will be interested in some of the committee's proceedings as to how this should be put into practice. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye mentioned the Norwegian scheme, which sets out a number of criteria for the activation of the emergency brake. I would also very much like to suggest that we discuss this, so that we do not get the very unclear legal situation that is in this bill because it is actually there but that we have greater and greater security, in relation to when this can start, what procedures there are and so that it will happen in a sound way. Something else that has been on the table, which I would also like to mention, is the question of whether children can get caught up in this. I would like to say that we will not accept that children get caught up in this. We will not accept that. And that's why we're gonna be very interested in how it can be handled in the management of this shift if it's used, what we're not hoping for. We have noted that the Children's Convention has been mentioned very specifically in the comments on the draft law, and we will of course also be very interested in how the Children's Convention can play a role in relation to the way this is going to work. Once again, of course, all sorts of thinking situations can always be highlighted. On the social media, which fortunately I do not follow as much as so many others • and I am quite happy about that • I understand that there has been a lot of discussion about it, and there you can get the impression that tomorrow you will be standing at the border and sending small children to Syria, and that is not what is happening here. This is an absolute emergency; it is extreme situations, in other words that we can find ourselves in a situation where people at the border can be separated and, of course, the obligations we have in relation to the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other conventions must also be taken into account. It is absolutely crucial for us that it is absolutely clear that it will be part of the management of this. So we are positive about an emergency brake, but I would like to say that the way we discuss it in committee and how it will look after the second reading will determine how we will vote on the third reading. However, as I said, I think it is hypocritical to say that no such thing can be needed, because it can actually be done. The refugee crisis is serious, and it can be even more serious, and I think it is totally irresponsible when, for example, it happens. The Radical Left, which always looks up as a very responsible party, completely rejects the fact that this may be necessary in extreme cases. But you do, and I really wonder. But all right, that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144042	Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144045	This bill is quite unclear, and because it is so unclear, a great deal of power is given to the current minister, to the current government. The current Minister for Integration is currently the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Mrs. Inger Løjberg. The minister gets the power to judge that now we have to pull this emergency brake. I am surprised that the SF seems to have such confidence in the government that they will make such a decision to the current Minister for Integration. I understand on the Left that the Left believes that this bill in 2015 could have been used to say on the border to both children and adults who come here as refugees: Go away with you, we don't want to look at your asylum cases. Can SF and Mr. Holger K. Nielsen will vote in favour of this bill as it stands at the present time, giving power to the government that is in office at any time to assess when this emergency brake should be drawn, and when should we reject children and adults who have fled on the border? Can we vote in favour of this bill as it stands here, or do we need to change it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144210	Quite frankly, I find it a little depressing that we can discuss this in the Chamber without listening to what is being said. In fact, I said positively that we did not want it to be the case that the Minister for Integration, in his evening prayer, could just as well decide that this emergency brake should now be activated. Well, then I can't understand why I need this question. That is what we need to work on in committee, in other words we need more precise procedures and more precise criteria to enable this emergency brake to be activated. This is a very important matter for the SF in terms of being able to vote for this at the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144252	It's not just sir. Holger K. Nielsen, who didn't listen. I asked and I ask again: what changes are needed to this bill before the SF can vote in favour? Do amendments to the bill need to be made in order for the SF to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144311	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144312	After first reading, we need to have a treatment now. There are already a number of uncertainties in this bill today, whether it is conscious or not, I do not know. However, we must first of all have those uncertainties identified. We need to identify the more precise relations with the various commitments we have, with regard to conventions, etc., and how this affects precisely and specifically. I cannot stand by and answer the question now. But what I'm just saying is that unlike Enhedslisten, we will go into committee processing and work specifically and constructively with such things here. And we have not decided in advance whether we say one thing or the other at the third reading. We have said that we will go in and work in committee to get more precision in this so that it will be satisfactory. In fact, unlike the Enhedslisten, we believe that an emergency brake may be necessary in extreme cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144413	Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144415	I and the Radical Left would like to ask quite quietly what criteria are important to the SF for this bill to be satisfactory to the SF. What are the criteria for this to happen? And just as I asked the Socialist rapporteur, I would like to ask him so that I can understand the relationship: does that mean something to him? Holger K. Nielsen, what is the situation in Germany, i.e. if the Dublin Regulation has also come into force in Germany? What, then, is the situation in Germany so that we will continue to activate it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144507	In other words, the latter cannot be specifically answered, it is impossible, but of course it is important. That is what we need to find a procedure for. Who's gonna make that decision? Who's gonna judge that? As I say, it cannot be in the Minister's evening prayer that it should be assessed, can it? And there is no clarity about that. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye mentions the Norwegian law, which is also a model for it, and where there are a number of criteria in it. Whether it can be used directly should not be able to say here today, but I believe that more precise criteria are needed. Otherwise, you will find yourself in a completely unsatisfactory legal state, where everything is completely insecure. I can't do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144557	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144558	At least I'm supposed to understand that in relation to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen's opening rapporteur's speech that if it continues to be possible to send unaccompanied refugee children back away again, contrary to what is in force today, where it cannot be done, even under the Dublin Regulation, will the SF not vote in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144622	No. It doesn't make sense to discuss all these hypothetical situations with what it looks like at the end and so on. I'm not buying that, am I? What I am saying is that there is the Children's Convention, which ensures that children receive proper treatment. And I think, just like Mr. Simpson... Mattias Tesfaye said earlier that it may not be the most important question right now whether it is in Germany, Sweden or Denmark that asylum is granted. That may be, I cannot rule that out, and in that situation it will play a role. But again I would say that it is not possible to answer it in general terms. Well, this is intended for a future situation that we don't know, and that's also why it's such a little hopeless discussion we're really having about this. And what it seems to me to be all about is that you have some procedures for you to have in due course, if it becomes necessary, what I hope is not, I certainly hope this is not being used... has some assurance that it will be handled properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144723	Mrs. Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144725	Thank you for that, and thank you for your confirmation, as I hear from Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, by the fact that the Children's Convention must of course be respected and that some criteria will be looked at. In fact, I would have liked to have asked in more detail what criteria the SF sees for itself. However, I just have to address the last point made by the rapporteur, which was that this is difficult because it is a future discussion, and that applies if you are in a hopeless situation, so hopefully the opportunity will never come into use. No, but that is why we need to be sure when we will be able to use it if necessary, and that is why I would like the rapporteur, after all, to go a little closer to what SF thinks and when SF thinks that this bill, if it ends up being adopted, should be put into effect. Can SF get a little closer to that? I'd like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144816	I cannot get any closer than what I have said earlier today, but I hope that in the further reading, including through the inspiration of the Alternative, we will perhaps be able to set out some criteria as to when to be able to pull on this emergency brake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144833	Does this mean that, despite the fact that the SF indicates that it is a positive thing, that it would be possible to close the borders under certain conditions, the SF has not thought at all about what it is going to do? And how does the SF deal with the whole problem of the unaccompanied refugee children? I understand the SF's rapporteur, and I am very pleased that the Children's Convention must of course be respected, but what this bill is proposing is that we should be able to reject children at the border. Will it then be enough for the SF that there is a safe country like for example. Germany, in which they can then stay, while we can still reject them at the border and they must find their own way out of the country of origin?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144918	There will of course be a concrete assessment in this situation. In most cases, it will be our assessment that Germany will be in a safe place, but there may well be situations where this will not be the case. That is why I am saying that we need to get the work done during the committee procedure done, how we can deal with the kind of dilemma that might arise there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144943	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen from SF. I think we will take another rapporteur, and this time it will be Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323144955	When Erdogan opened its borders in August-September 2015 to push EU countries, it happened that we experienced huge refugee pressure. We saw refugees on motorways heading not only towards Denmark, but also towards Norway and Sweden, and this called for new solutions. Because what could we do? Refugees came from Germany, a safe country, but they wanted to move on to better countries in Scandinavia. It was to be formally governed by the Dublin Regulation, but in practice it had collapsed at that time. The incentive structure is completely black. If a fugitive has crossed the border and you would like to avoid spending money on processing, just let the person pass on to the next country. This logic benefits both refugees and the border country, which escapes proceedings, but it does not benefit Denmark or Sweden at all. An excessive proportion of the foreigners who came to Denmark in the autumn of 2015 had travelled through a number of Schengen countries without being registered. In autumn 2015, therefore, we learned that the Dublin Regulation is far too dependent on the other Schengen countries to shoulder their responsibilities. It was expensive training, and we see no reason to pay them again. As you know, it is not possible today to reject a person at the border if the person who comes is seeking asylum, even if the person comes from a safe country such as Germany or other Schengen countries, who have failed to cooperate by failing to register him or, moreover, does not fit well at Schengen's extreme borders. We also risked that there were some who infiltrated refugee streams such as Islamists, Assadagenter, Iran agents, Hizbollahagenter. This really was an untenable situation. With this bill, we're giving the government the opportunity to solve the problem that we didn't have the opportunity to solve in autumn 2015. The Refugee Board must provide asylum-related expertise on the question of whether a Dublin country is equivalent to a safe third country and, in the event of a crisis, we can then reject the asylum seeker at the border. It is a question of being ready if similar situations arise again. It is a matter of due diligence. Although this government has actually managed to control the number of refugees, changes can quickly take place. That is why we must also constantly ensure that we have the right means to look after Denmark and, at the same time, to promote freedoms throughout the world, so that we give the weakest part of the world the courage to fight for democracy. The Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323145306	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader. This did not give rise to any brief comments, which is why we can now welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323145327	Thank you. And thank you for receiving the bill, which has, of course, given rise to some debate. This bill is about being prepared in case the pressure on Denmark increases dramatically. It is simply a matter of showing due care. Now we are seeing very low entry and asylum applicants in Denmark. The number of asylum seekers in January was thus the lowest in almost eight years, with only 223 applicants. The figure shows that government policy works; that the 50 restrictions in the field of foreigners, together with among others. border controls and also measures at EU level have had a significant impact. However, experience also shows that in a very short time there may be a new acute situation that we need to be ready to deal with. Just look at the current situation in Turkey or the worrying entry figures into the European Union via Libya and the so-called Central Mediterranean route. After all, we all remember the dramatic scenes that spawned in autumn 2015, when thousands of refugees and migrants crossed the Danish border and wandered along our motorways towards Norway and, to a large extent, Sweden. The government will ensure that Denmark will not again find itself in a similar situation. The bill will therefore introduce a legal basis into the Aliens Act which will allow asylum seekers to be refused on entry, i.e. immediately at the border, if a crisis situation arises which puts Danish borders under pressure. After all, it is not possible today to reject a foreigner on the border with another country covered by the Dublin Regulation if he applies for asylum. This means that asylum seekers can stay in this country while the National Immigration Authority assesses which Dublin country is responsible for examining the asylum application. If another Dublin country is responsible for examining the application, yes, the alien will, as a rule, be transferred to that country. The Dublin system is based on the fulfilment by all Dublin countries of their obligations. This means, among other things, that the countries must register the foreigners correctly, respond to requests for takeover and cooperation on the transfer itself. If more Dublin countries fail to fulfil their obligations, then it can put pressure on the individual Dublin countries' asylum systems and also on the whole Dublin system. For the government, it is therefore crucial that the authorities have tools that match the challenges we can face if there is a crisis situation in which Dublin cooperation really breaks down. The Government therefore proposes that in the Aliens Act a legal basis should be inserted, after which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration may at any time decide that asylum seekers may be refused on entry from another Dublin country. A prerequisite for the activation of the emergency brake system will be that Dublin cooperation has, in the view of the Danish Government, actually ceased to function. In such a situation, Denmark would no longer be obliged, on the basis of an assessment of international law, to follow Dublin procedures. It will depend on several factors whether the cooperation has actually broken down and will depend, by its very nature, on a concrete assessment of the overall circumstances. A decision to activate the emergency brake will be taken after the proposal for a period of 4 weeks and may then be extended by a further four weeks at a time, and the decision will of course be repealed when the conditions are no longer met. Let me finally make it clear that even if the emergency brake is activated, of course Denmark will still have to comply with its international obligations. This means, among other things, that there may be special cases in which we, for example, have to deal with one another. because of the children's convention rules will be obliged to allow an asylum seeker to enter the country. In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteurs who support the proposal here, and I look forward to the further debate. I also have the feeling that this could give rise to questions through the committee, and I am, of course, prepared to answer them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323145843	There are a few who will not wait for the work of the committee, and they would like a comment here, so we will take a round of brief comments. First, it's sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323145855	Thank you. It is, of course, part of the financial law agreement, so we are of course pleased that it is being tabled and look forward to it coming into force. After all, we would like to see asylum seekers rejected at the border already started tomorrow. I would like to hear: when does the Minister think that we are reaching a level which means that an emergency brake has to be put in place? As I said, the Danish People's Party believes that the level we had last year was 6,000 levels that were too violent, so the question is therefore: when does the Minister think that a level that makes emergency braking take effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323145931	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323145933	It will, of course, be if Dublin cooperation has actually collapsed. I would say, as I have said before, that in a different situation of equality, and now everything is not as it was in 2015, when we saw the great migrations up the motorway, but in a different situation of equality, I would say that in any case we will consider very strongly pulling the emergency brake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323145958	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150001	I fully agree that if you reach the level you had in 2015, it is quite obvious that you are pulling on the emergency brake. You should do it a little sooner. One might also take the view that Dublin is not working to this day, because the aim of Dublin is to avoid asylum shopping, and that is what is happening today. That is why it is easy to question whether Dublin is really working today. I am in favour of Denmark, of course, sending back some people with reference to the Dublin Regulation, which means sending them back to other European countries, but when the aim of the Dublin Regulation is to avoid asylum shopping and it is taking place today in a large way it does, every day, asylum seekers shop around the various countries and end up seeking asylum where they think it is most attractive • the Dublin Regulation does not prevent it at least, not a hundred percent. So the question is this: does the Minister believe that the Dublin Regulation is working satisfactorily today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150047	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150048	In any case, I believe that the Dublin Regulation works in a way that does not have to be dragged into an asylum brake.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150056	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150059	I think the Minister has already answered my question. I'm asking you just in case. With regard to this other equal wording in the summer of 2015, I understand that if this bill we are discussing today had been in force in Denmark, the Minister could have decided there in the summer of 2015 that this emergency brake should now come into force, so that one could say at the border: Turn around, we will not deal with your asylum application.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150136	I think it is a good thing just to ask a question for the sake of good order, even though you think you have already got an answer to it but fine enough. When I say any other equal situation, it is because you cannot simply shift time and say that if it looked exactly the same today as it did then, we will pull on the emergency brake, because there is nothing that looks exactly the same today as it did then. Let me just remind you of the changes we have also made to Danish legislation, for example. An example of this could be the reception centres and the rules that apply to them, where we can hold refugees and migrants indefinitely until we have them registered. In the same way things have happened in other European countries, so everything is not everything else equal, but if you could imagine any other equal situation, I would say that then we were there where I would consider discussing with the other government, if I should not pull the check-off yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150239	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150241	When I ask, even though I think I know what the Minister thinks, it is of course because I see this as a very unclear legislative proposal. I think it is unclear when the government, like it, has the power to decide that this emergency brake must now be put into effect. I understand that most of the parties actually seem to have several parties that think it is rather unclear, and that is why it is important for me to hear the Minister about, in the summer of 2015 such a situation was in which one would have competence with this bill to pull on the emergency brake. I understand from the Minister that it is among other things. The kind of situation you've been thinking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150318	At any rate, it will be possible to consider it in a similar situation. However, as I said, many things have happened both in Denmark and in other European countries since then, and this must necessarily be taken into account. That is also why the draft law has been written as it is. There are, of course, a host of elements which we must assess, also because this is a relatively large measure of intervention, and I agree with that, so it is not something we just do from one hour to the next without considering and analysing the situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150353	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150357	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. I hear the Minister say that we must, of course, live up to our international obligations. I am very pleased to hear that. Is the Minister prepared to clarify this in the draft law's observations and also to clarify what criteria are needed to enable the Minister to implement it here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150418	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150420	In any event, I would like to say that I am very happy and, of course, very willing to respond to the questions that may come from the committee, which I also think is quite reasonable, so that questions are asked to try to put this draft law into practice. So I also expect, I can say already now, a burst of questions from the committee and will endeavour to answer them as soon as possible and, of course, as best I can.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150441	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150443	Thank you. But that means that the Minister does not take the initiative on his own initiative, for example. To clarify the criteria for what then needs to be done to put this into effect? And I am fully in the comparison with autumn 2015, but it would be nice if we here in the Danish Parliament knew exactly what it is that is needed to put this decision into effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150512	What you can say, with exactly a bill like this, is that it is so special if you have to pull the emergency brake, and that is why you cannot make a manual for when you want to pull the emergency brake. I simply do not think that is possible. However, it is clear that the questions that the committee may have and there will certainly be many I will endeavour to get the best possible answers. But there will still be room for interpretation, that is precisely why the draft law is written as it is. And I have to say that I have faith in the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Government who sits there at all times, no matter what colour it may have, in the fact that the emergency brake will only be activated if necessary and that, of course, we will do our analysis afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150610	Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150613	Thank you. Since Erik Ninn-Hansen stopped being responsible for foreign law, the Social Democracy and the Left have in turn held the post. Therefore, it would have been our fellow party members who would have had the opportunity to pull a hand brake if it had existed in the Aliens Act. That is why I think that we have a special responsibility for giving the Folketing the opportunity to describe more precisely what criteria it is that our parties should comply with when we have the office of Minister for Foreign Affairs in turn. So when the Minister says that the emergency brake is lifted when the conditions are not there, I think we should consider allowing the Folketing to be a little more precise in describing what these conditions are. I said in my rapporteur's speech that perhaps we should consider that some of what is contained in Norwegian legislation is being included in the Danish legislation. I have actually asked myself the question, since so much else in the legislative proposal we are now debating is quite obvious in relation to the Norwegian law, why exactly this with the criteria has not been incorporated into the Danish legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150721	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150722	There are several things that are not completely one-to-one from Norwegian to Danish legislation, for example. the fact that in Norway it is the king who activates the emergency brake, and that is not the case in Denmark. I have a great deal of respect for sir. Mattias Tesfaye's approach to this and also to Mrs Josephine Fock's question and wishes for clarification, but I would also like to say that I believe it would be impossible to write a manual on when to pull the emergency brake. But, of course, I am prepared, in the thorough work which the committee had to carry out on this subject, to get the answer to those questions and, as a result, to make things more concrete than they are at present. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150821	When we discussed transporter liability and other legislation that we have made in the field of aliens, which has been rushed through the Danish Parliament, we were, therefore, given our support for the draft legislations, criticism that it had to be rushed through, and asked why things were not in place in good time. Now we are discussing it in good time, and now we are getting criticism that we are discussing thought scenarios. Now that we are doing what I think is right to do, namely to prepare ourselves in good time, which is an expression of due diligence, I think we should also make an effort to have the law written as precisely as possible. I understand we can't write a manual. We need to be confident that the government in office is able to govern at all times and must not be tied on its hands and feet. However, I still think that what they have done in Norway makes sense, namely to describe a number of conditions which must be met, for example. about the reception capacity and that other possibilities in the legislation must be exhausted. I think it is actually fair that the legislative assembly should take a little interest in this. That is why it will certainly be some of the things that we will be working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150918	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150919	I can only say that it is quite appropriate for the Social Democrats to do so and that the other parties will, of course, do so, because I believe that we have an interest in doing this as thoroughly as possible. But I just want to say again that this is not possible, and I do not hear Mr. Mattias Tesfaye say to write a manual for it. But, of course, some quite relevant questions are being asked and they will be answered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323150950	The Minister has not succeeded in challenging others to make a brief comment, so we thank you very much. No one else has asked to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151015	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151035	Thank you. A moment ago, there was, after all, the first reading of the government's bill to introduce an emergency brake into the Aliens Act, which should make it possible in a crisis situation in which Dublin cooperation has actually stopped functioning, to reject asylum seekers on the border with another Dublin country. It is an emergency brake which, together with the government's other 50 tightenings, must ensure that the authorities have the right tools to deal with a situation where the pressure on Denmark is increasing dramatically. It is an emergency brake that is about taking due care. In the light of the previous debate on the emergency brake, I can of course understand that it can be both easy and of course also tempting to go further and generally reject asylum seekers on the border, even if this is not a crisis situation in which Dublin cooperation has collapsed. But it's not that easy. Indeed, it will not be possible to implement the proposal's content on rejection at the border and at the same time remain part of Dublin cooperation. It is therefore basically about whether it is wise for Denmark to break with the Dublin system at this time, and I simply do not think it is. The government's position is clear: on the contrary, the way forward is to ensure that the Dublin system stays on track because it is a prerequisite for a well-functioning asylum system in Denmark and also in the rest of Europe. The government is therefore working hard to maintain Denmark's participation in the current Dublin system, but at the same time we are firm that asylum and immigration policy must, of course, be established in Denmark and not in Brussels. At the same time, the government sees it as a basic premise that Denmark is complying with its international obligations and therefore the government cannot support the resolution. I look forward to the further debate, and it is clear that both here and later I am also available for questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151247	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151251	Thank you. I agree that there has been a bit of fashion in the country, and perhaps for a long time there has been a constant emphasis on Dublin cooperation as the one which, like Denmark, protects against a new influx of asylum, that it is, like, the foundation stone of the Danish asylum system. I do not quite understand it, because Dublin cooperation has not prevented very, very high entry rates in Denmark; Dublin cooperation did not prevent a lot of people from rushing into the autumn of 2015 • Dublin cooperation did not do anything in the area that was beneficial to Denmark. That the number of asylums has fallen to approx. Six thousand last year, and the fact that it is still relatively low, is not due to Dublin cooperation. If you could choose between having a system in which asylum seekers were constantly rejected at the border and having Dublin cooperation, is it really the government's view that you would rather have chosen Dublin cooperation than a system whereby asylum seekers could be refused at the border at all times? What's more important?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151351	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151351-2	In fact, I believe that the most important thing is that we find common European solutions which do not, to the extent that we see now, seek against Europe, even though it is well known to many migrants that it can be extremely difficult to have the right to be here. So I think the solution is somewhere else. However, until the external borders to Europe are clear, I think it is quite appropriate that we should be vigilant, because that is what happens when we implement the tightening up of immigration policy, as we do, and when we introduce border controls and other measures. It is, of course, just a question of being honest and saying that the countries are watching for themselves, but the solution is not that so many young men from Africa, in particular, are looking for Europe. They do not have the right to be here and they do not have the right to be here, and therefore the solution must be found elsewhere, and it must necessarily be in pan-European cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151503	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151504	Joint European cooperation has not really done anything good for Denmark and for a number of other European countries. In other words, when we are faced with the problems that we have faced and have been facing for a long time, it is because the guarding of the external borders has virtually never really worked. It is probably also a utopia to think that you can get a proper guarding of the external borders there is enough too much to guard, to say it as it is. After all, the common EU rules relating to Dublin and Schengen have not prevented the problems we are facing now. After all, the problems are still gone, and some would claim, with a certain degree of justification, that those problems have actually increased. Then the Minister does not see that there is a point in each nation state being allowed to make up for itself, whether you want to pursue a policy where you say that if you come to the country from another country where it is safe to stay, then we are in our right to reject you on the border and say: You do not have a right to protection, because you do not come directly from war and strife; you come directly from a country where you can finely be there, there is no problem with being there, you are not being persecuted? And is it not a problem if EU rules actually prevent us from adopting those rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151608	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151609	So, I have to say that I think it is absolutely crucial that we remain in Dublin's work, and again I want to say that the solution is not, in the long term, that the countries of Europe are watching for themselves. The solution must be for example: In the long term, safe areas may be created in unsafe countries, but it must be safe areas where the migrants who would otherwise go for Europe must go. That would also mean that asylum would then be sought into Europe. But I really believe that the solution must be found elsewhere, and until then I think that we are perfectly entitled, of course, to implement the rigours that we are doing, because we cannot stand by as much pressure and as large an entry figure as we do, for example. did in 2015.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151704	Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151707	I am therefore in favour of the development of Syria and of various other war zones promoting a refugee crisis. But I would also say that one of the reasons why things went so wrong was that Schengen cooperation and control of the external borders, which should have been there, were not there. What I think is the problem with European countries is that because they do not really want to take it seriously themselves, they put the issue of the refugee crisis in the hands of a tyrant like Erdogan, which I do not find very reassuring. My point with that is that if Europe is to be defended, I think the only way forward is for every country to fit its borders. And it is also because this would never have happened if the refugees who walked through Europe had to cross national borders with national border controls. It is therefore part of the refugee crisis that the European Union, at least Schengen, is a defective system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151827	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151828	Well, actually, I can just repeat my answer to Mr. Martin Henriksen. And I would say that if the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Danish People's Party were to be introduced, we would be out of Dublin cooperation, and I simply do not think that is desirable for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151850	I just think it's weird from a historical point of view. So, Denmark and other countries have had borders and border controls. Denmark has had it for 1,000 years, and then we have just one parenthesis in history where we do not have border controls. And then the whole thing breaks loose, and the Folketing and the Danish government are totally out of control over this and do not really know what to do. I believe that the reason why we are discussing this at all is that the limit has been reached, also in relation to what this country can bear, if Denmark is to be Denmark in 20, 30 and 40 years' time. After all, we have a duty to our descendants to safeguard the country we have inherited and to pass it on properly. And that is an obligation that politicians and governments cannot bypass at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151950	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323151952	Well, I don't disagree with Mr. Knox. Christian Langballe in. But I just disagree with the fact that the motion for a resolution tabled here is the solution. I don't think it is. I believe that the solution must be found elsewhere, and it is from a wider European perspective. So, of course, we can disagree, because I simply do not believe that the proposal before us will solve the problem. However, I agree that the conclusion that we must ensure that Denmark will, tomorrow and in 20 years' time and in 50 years' time, also be on the basis of the values of freedom that it is doing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152031	Then we can thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. There are no more brief comments, but there are a number of well-designed rapporteurs who would like to speak. And the first one is sir. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. There's no duty to speak, but there's a right. Welcome!
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152102	The Danish People's Party wants to move asylum cases to the border area, treat them in 1 hour and then either send or return the rejected asylum seekers. In addition, the proposers wish to explore the possibility of completely refusing asylum treatment at the Danish borders. The proposal is essentially a repetition of another motion for a resolution which was rejected by the Danish Parliament last year. That is why my speech will also look like the one I made last year when the Social Democrats last rejected this proposal. Basically, we do not believe that it is in the national interest for Denmark to be alone in dealing with the current refugee situation. We welcome the Danish accession to the Dublin Agreement, despite all its shortcomings and shortcomings, and that is basically what we are discussing today. Denmark's geographical location means that most asylum seekers' first country of asylum will rarely be Denmark, and we actually benefit from the common EU system. The Dublin Agreement allows us to send a larger number of asylum seekers back every year to countries other than Denmark. In the latest inventory covering 2015, we agreed with other Dublin countries to send 1,607 asylum seekers back to another EU country, while 818 went the other way. We therefore believe that Denmark has an interest in making Dublin cooperation work better and we fear that the adoption of this proposal will be viewed with good reason by the other European countries as a step away from Dublin cooperation, simply because the proposers want to reject asylum seekers on the grounds that they come from a safe country. I understand the purpose and logic of the proposal, but I fear that the real political consequences will be that Denmark cannot possibly become part of a common European asylum system. This will not allow us to send asylum seekers back to the EU country where they were first registered, but will have to start another asylum case in Denmark. Denmark has previously agreed to deal with asylum applications from people who had already been refused asylum in other European countries, and that is part of our common, expensive alien political experience, which I am sure the Danish People's Party will also very much hate to repeat. That is why I am surprised at the motion for a resolution. It must be borne in mind that the main argument behind the Dublin Agreement was precisely to avoid such asylum shopping between European countries, and is that not what we can fear is developing even more if Denmark is not still included in the agreement? It is true that the Dublin system is challenged and, of course, there is no point in individual countries failing to register asylum seekers and simply waving them up through Europe. However, Dublin is still in operation and, in the view of the Social Democrats, the government must work to ensure that Denmark can remain in the new Dublin cooperation without dragging a European quota system over its head. Finally, we in the Social Democratic Party have been involved in tightening up Danish legislation on foreigners. This has had a very clear effect and, at the same time, we see seriously the impact of the agreement with Turkey, in other words that the routes from the Balkans are closed and the Islamic State is being defeated. All this is clearly reflected in the relatively low entry rates. We must, of course, continue to monitor developments closely, but the changes proposed here are not what Denmark needs. That is why the Socialists do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152419	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152423	Thank you. Is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye did not agree that it was perhaps also a bit in the rapporteur's speech that the most optimal system would be a system where we could reject people at the border, and then we could take a quota ourselves? We say from the Danish People's Party that we can probably handle a quota of 500 a year, including family reunifications, and that is what we are taking. In the view of the Social Democrats, will it not be the best arrangement to have when it comes to asylum policy? Perhaps it would be the most honest arrangement to have. It would also mean that the different parties in here could then offer an indication of how many they think Denmark can take every year, and then the voters know who to vote for if they think you can take 1,000 or 1,500 or 10,000 or 500, or whatever it may be. Would it not be a more honest system to do so in this way? And then you would also ensure that those you then went to Denmark, if it were 500 or 1,000, or how many it was, would actually also be some who did not have the resources to come to Europe and thus also be the most vulnerable and those who are actually refugees, and not those who come up here, who are of course to be considered immigrants?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152528	Well, actually, I very much agree, it's just not exactly the situation we're in right now. Right now we are in a slightly different situation, and I think that is what we have to deal with here in the Assembly. But yes, it would be optimal if it were so that when war broke out in a country, people fled across the border to the neighbouring country, and then we could secure proper reception camps with medicine, education for children and blankets, and whatever else needs to be done in order for people to live a safe and secure life. And those who could not be in the refugee camps for a variety of reasons had the opportunity to come to, for example, on a regular basis. Europe and get a further life after a set number of figures on how many it could be. We're just nowhere near being in that situation. We are in a situation in which Europe has to deal with the fact that there is war in our neighbourhood and that there is not safe neighbouring countries, the neighbouring countries that are, at least, have plenty to deal with, and that there is not enough money to deal with the refugees that are there. That's why it's gonna be a tiny bit of a thoughtful situation. And in the current situation, as it stands, this would not benefit Denmark, because it would de facto mean that we stepped out of the Dublin Convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152641	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152642	If the proposals of the Danish People's Party were to become law, it would be the case that we rejected asylum seekers at the border. So those who came up here by themselves would be rejected on the border by a Danish policeman or a Danish homeguard, depending on who we now choose to give the authority to it. And then, for that system already exists, namely the United Nations quota system, where for many years Denmark has taken 500 UN quota refugees a year, taking the 500 UN quota refugees a year from a system which is already there today, where you go and choose them in the refugee camps that are already there today. The 500 would then have the opportunity to come to Denmark, they would not subsequently have to be reunited, because the family is in that quota, so we have control of the number, and then we would reject at the border. So that system is actually already there today; it just requires Parliament to decide that that is what we are doing. The reason we are not doing this is because there is a majority in this Parliament that does not support the Danish People's Party's line in that area, but if you did, it would be Denmark's policy, and then our authorities would act on it. And we have systems that already work and that already designate people in the various existing refugee camps.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152751	I think the Danish People's Party is jumping a little lightly and elegantly over the other conditions that need to be present for such a model to work, among other things. safe reception camps in nearby areas, including: there is no migration from the Middle East and Africa to southern Europe. These are, after all, some of the preconditions, some of the conditions that need to be met in order to make such a very beautiful asylum system work. It's just not where we are now. We are where thousands of people put their feet on European soil every month and either seek asylum in Greece and Italy or start their journey through Europe, and we cannot just close our eyes to this and then devise our own beautiful model inside our heads. Unfortunately, it doesn't work that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152834	Thank you, sir. Mattias Tesfaye. There are no more brief comments in this case. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Marcus Knuth from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323152844	I think it is right, very good timing, that we are dealing with the draft law from before and then this resolution now, because we fully agree that we should be able to reject people at the Danish border if the situation so requires. That is what we seem to be getting in place with the emergency brake bill that we were just discussing a moment ago. However, the situation is just now that we are experiencing the lowest number of asylum seekers for about 7 years, and this is due, among other things, to. The 50 restrictions that the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has had implemented here in the last two years. As long as the current 50 tightenings continue to work as long as the number of asylum seekers continues to fall, I see no reason either to pull in the so-called emergency brake or to support the resolution that the Danish People's Party is making here, because it is basically about what is best for Denmark. In a situation where there is historically low pressure on the Danish borders, does it make sense to de facto close them and withdraw from the Dublin Convention? I don't think so. Does it make sense to pull on the emergency brake if there is a lot of pressure on the borders? Yes, it does, and that is the opportunity that we will have as soon as we have the third reading of the draft law from before. That is not to say that we are not aware that we are in a particularly fragile situation. Will the Turkey Agreement last? We see an increasing number of people looking over the Mediterranean. What about the Balkan route? But the situation right now at the Danish border is that the number of asylum seekers has virtually decreased and decreased linearly over the last very, very long period of time. That is why we do not support this resolution, but we will not hesitate for a moment to pull the so-called emergency brake if there is again a great deal of pressure on the Danish borders. That is why the Left does not support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153052	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153056	That is a shame, because it is an excellent proposal. I think that there is a basic discussion here in the Danish Parliament which I would like to share with the rapporteur, namely on the question of whether we in Denmark decide who we receive. It may be many, and it may be few, but it should be the case in a people's government that we can actually decide for ourselves who we let in across our borders. That is why I think it is quite appropriate to have a permanent immediate refusal at the border, also because I actually think that we in Denmark have taken what we should do. In fact, I think so on the basis of the fact that Denmark is a nation which must somehow live the next 100 years. I know that some people don't care about it, but I'm not; I don't care what country I pass on to my children and grandchildren. And that is why I think I have a responsibility to defend the country and defend its borders, so that Denmark will also be Denmark in 20 years' time. That is why I think it is a very good proposal. And in fact, if this proposal had been introduced quite a few years ago, we could be spared a great many problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153222	Well, I kind of hope that Denmark will be Denmark both in 100 years and in 1,000 years. I am working not only for me to know Denmark in 20 years, but also for much longer than that. I fully agree with the intention of this and that a politician's foremost job is to protect Denmark, protect our culture and protect the Denmark we know. That is precisely why we have carried out 50 restrictions, which have been very controversial in very high seas in the press, one can safely say that precisely with the aim of reducing the number of asylum seekers at a time when thousands are still coming to Sweden; when there will be a larger number over the Mediterranean this year than last year. Those people are no longer looking for Denmark. And we have done so precisely because we want to preserve the Denmark we know. If we are then at a time of historically low and even decreasing numbers of asylum seekers, I also think it is a question of proportionality, i.e. whether it makes sense to close the Danish border with all the negative consequences it has. One only has to look at what the very effective Swedish border control has done in the cooperation between Copenhagen and Malmö. Since we have a declining and historically low number of asylum seekers, I just do not think that the time is right to do this. However, if the number starts to rise sharply again, I agree with the rapporteur that this may be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153342	Does the author wish to make his second brief comment? Here we go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153345	So, from a historical perspective, this migration that is going on, from Africa and from war zones, will take place for the next 50-100 years. And what I really miss in-depth debate is: how long will we continue to pretend that we can just do it all; that Denmark can just do it all? In other words, the migration that has taken place to Denmark has left its mark on a lasting basis. I know that there is a part of the left that is completely indifferent; as it does not worry at all what the country will look like in 20-30 years' time, for fortunately that is not their problem; they can push on to others. But for me, it is a concern that my descendants should live with parallel societies and everything else that goes on and on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153444	I believe that I share many of the same concerns if not exactly the same concerns as the rapporteur has. But I do not think that Denmark is a desert island. We support both the austerity measures that make people not looking for Denmark once they have come to Europe, but also the European measures that exist to try both to solve the problems in the neighbourhood and also to see what we can do in a common European framework. After all, we have an agreement on Turkey which is in place so far. We have a closure of the Balkan route, which lasts until further notice. I know that the Minister is frequently in Brussels to cooperate with his European partners on what we might do to send people back to North Africa when they come from Libya. That agreement is not yet in place; it is not so easy that it has been done as I said. But we are working both to secure Europe's external borders and to ensure that people do not come to Denmark. And I actually think that we are on our way very well, at least as far as the last part is concerned, where we now have an historically low number of asylum seekers in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153545	Thank you very much, sir. Marcus Knuth and warm welcome to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153554	Thank you. If we could divide up this motion for a resolution, I would actually vote in favour of one part, namely the part about Denmark having to retake quota refugees. Denmark has, of course, known to me since 1979 taken 500 quota refugees a year, and it would be so great if we did it again. There are so many injustices in the asylum system: there is this about how difficult it is to escape if you are not physically strong, for example.; and it is significantly more dangerous for women to flee than for men, for women are more at risk in connection with the escape itself and the traffickers; children are more at risk; if you do not have a house to sell where you can pay traffickers, you are ill; and if you are very old and are not physically strong, you are also weak. After all, all these injustices are part of the quota refugee system because refugees are actually being picked up in the vicinity, selected by the United Nations on the basis of who is most in need. So imagine if Denmark again began to take quota refugees. It seems to us that the Enhedslisten is a good idea to raise the quota somewhat, which I would think was a rather natural response to the fact that we are in a world-historical refugee crisis................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Danish Government and the Social Democrats have chosen to respond to this by saying that Denmark will then take 0 quota refugees, while many other countries have chosen to raise the quota. We think that in the Enhedslisten would be sensible. But if we could only take that part of the Danish People's Party's proposal, we would be happy to vote in favour, but the problem is that the Danish People's Party only thinks that quota refugees should be taken if all refugees, all asylum seekers who come to the Danish border are rejected. We think this is a bad idea, we think it is unsolidarous to those people who are forced to flee, and we also think it is unsolidarous to the rest of Europe. What if it is contagious, if I may say so, if Germany and all the countries say that they will then take 0 refugees, then you will find yourself in a situation where those who happen to have Europe's external borders will have to accept all the refugees in the world, I would say, all the refugees who come to Europe. Don't you think those countries are gonna break down? I have used an example in the past which I think is relevant in this context: let us imagine that the Baltic countries had merged in the 1990s. I think most people in Denmark in this situation would think that it would probably be fair if we in Europe were together on the task and that Denmark did not have to deal with all those people's asylum applications just because we happen to have Bornholm lying where Bornholm once lies. Of course, we are not voting for this proposal. Perhaps I should add a small piece of legal certainty. I understand from the proposal that it is simply thought that the asylum procedure, that is to say the treatment of the asylum case, should then say that not only does this proposal have nothing to do with reality, it has nothing to do with legal certainty either. We shall vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153927	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen. Welcome to Mrs. Laura Lindahl of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323153933	Thank you. It is not difficult to understand that the individual has a desire to have a better life in another part of the world if he lives in a place of war or poverty. It is also reasonable, in fact, that we in Denmark discuss our approach to refugee and migrant flows, so actually thank the Danish People's Party for putting forward a proposal that allows us to discuss the status in this area. After all, this is a re-presentation of B 98, which the Danish People's Party put forward in the previous session, and at that time it was somewhat more topical, because it was at a time when we in Denmark were very pressured in relation to the number of asylum seekers. Today we are seeing a significantly lower level. It has not come by itself, or they have not been lost by themselves, one might say more. A number of tightenings have been made. I think we are all aware that last week we reached 50 tights. Therefore, there is now a lower level of number of applicants than we have had for a long time, and I know that the number remains decreasing. I am quite sure that the rapporteur for the proposers is very pleased with the developments. Of course, the proposers' party has helped to implement all the restrictions, but I also understand that one has a desire to shut down the influx to Denmark completely. I think that is a perfectly legitimate wish. As the Minister said at the outset, it is not possible to implement this motion for a resolution without leaving the Dublin Regulation. That is why I think it is appropriate to consider whether it is best to introduce an asylum freeze now that we have a relatively low level of applicants, versus the disadvantages that will be emerging from the Dublin Regulation. There is no doubt that we in the Liberal Alliance agree with the Minister that the challenges we face are a common European project. Neither do any of us believe that will happen any minute now, but the policy of the government and the policy of the Liberal Alliance is that we should have these asylum centres outside the borders of Europe, but this requires all the European countries to be involved before we are there. And the Liberal Alliance would like, if that were what could be achieved, to stop for asylum in Denmark, but that would also mean that we would have to take more quota refugees and that the money that would be saved would have to be spent in the vicinity. However, like the proposal here and also the legislative proposal that we discussed before, which will allow us to pull the emergency brake, if we are pressed, the Liberal Alliance will vote against.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154232	There were no challenges to short remarks. So we thank Mrs Laura Lindahl and welcome Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154240	Thank you. It may not surprise the Danish People's Party that the alternative does not support this proposal. We do not think that we should be able to permanently close our borders, as is being proposed. On the other hand, I think it would be a very good thing if we could share the resolution, because we think, of course, that it is a very good idea for the part dealing with quota refugees. I think that we should be far more ambitious than we are with the 500 quota refugees, but this is a system that the alternative supports. Being able to take quota refugees is, of course, crucial to helping in the neighbourhood, but together we cannot vote in favour of the proposal because it makes us dependent on us closing the Danish borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154325	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock and welcome to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154331	Thank you. Not surprisingly, we have it in the Radical Left, just as the former rapporteur does with this proposal: we are not in favour of this proposal. We are in favour of developing European cooperation, and here cooperation is of course cross-border. We are in favour of developing the opportunities we have through free movement, not dismantling them, and therefore we are not in favour of a permanent rejection of asylum seekers at the border either. We are, in fact, open to examining asylum applications at the border and I would like to take Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen's argument about legal certainty in it, the appropriate logistical approach to having to build facilities at the border for asylum treatment, for which it is likely that we will have to stay for a very long time. That doesn't sound optimal. But it is more general in that such a permanent system will lead to the dissolution of large parts of European cooperation. We are against this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154449	There is a brief remark from Mrs. Apologies from Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154455	I've never been accused of that yet, but that's the way it is. I would like to ask whether Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen could not see that there was a certain logic in having a system that meant that those who like to pay to come up here, those who pay to come up here with a smuggler and who are the most resourceful, shut off, and then you have a system, and then you can discuss how many people you have to take into the system where those you help are the ones you actually know and have the security of are real refugees. Then we say on the part of the Danish People's Party that if such a system ever came, we believe that it can be maximum. Take 500 a year, including the families of the refugees. Then you can discuss where that number should be. But would it not be the most optimal system, even in the eyes of the Radical Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154547	If you are entitled to asylum when you have had your asylum case dealt with, you are a real refugee, no matter how you have got through. Otherwise, however, it would be far, far better if we could distribute refugees between European countries in an internal European quota allocation much more solidarity and controlled. That proposal is on the table. I think that would be a very good thing if the Danish People's Party were to join, because in some ways it is in line with at least the ideas which Mr. Martin Henriksen here expresses.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154629	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154631	I think that we in the Danish People's Party are sticking to our own proposal. But does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen not see that there is something strange about the fact that when a person comes to the Danish-German border or comes to Denmark, and then when we deal with his or her asylum case, we take as a starting point the situation in the country from which he or she may have left at some point, perhaps a year ago, perhaps six months ago, but we do not take into account the fact that they actually come directly from a country, Germany, typically where there is no war, where they have not been persecuted. Does Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen not see that something is wrong with the system? Even in the Radicals, it must surely be seen that it is quite unreasonable, because they are not really persecuted when they come to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154718	The solution to this would be a quota allocation in the European Union, and that is the proposal that is on the table with a majority of countries behind it, and I think it would be quite optimal if the Danish People's Party could support it, because it will actually respond to some of the problems that Mr. Martin Henriksen points out. In addition, it would, of course, be appropriate to respond to this by continuing to take quota refugees, who are indeed the most vulnerable refugees who are not in a position to move at all. However, if you are entitled to asylum, you are a refugee, and these are the criteria that apply to me in relation to whom we should grant asylum.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154802	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. The next rapporteur was supposed to be the SF rapporteur, but I do not see that he is here. So we move on to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154823	We have just negotiated a bill to be able to reject asylum seekers in crisis situations, an emergency brake that might be needed in a crisis situation. We need that when Dublin cooperation does not work. We are introducing this because we need to control the pressure on refugees. DF wants this scheme permanently. The problem is just, as the Minister has just explained, that we cannot implement the proposal without breaking with Dublin cooperation, and I think that would be unwise. We are doing the right thing when we introduce an emergency brake that we can use when Dublin cooperation does not work, but when it works, we stick to Dublin cooperation. We support our international commitments, the emergency brake, well-functioning Dublin cooperation, and we therefore do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154920	Thank you, sir. Naser Khader is short and efficient. Then we come to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323154930	Thank you for that and thank you for the comments that have been made. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said that she was afraid that if the resolution was adopted it would be so contagious, and then I cannot help saying that this is the plan, that is, if we adopted this motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party and we introduced this scheme in Denmark, it was intended to infect other countries. It could well be imagined that Germany would also start to reject at their borders, Austria would start to reject at their borders, and it would, in fact, be quite reasonable if it were to become that way, because this would be the most optimal situation for Denmark and for the whole of Europe. The Danish People's Party considers that asylum seekers should be rejected at the Danish borders, and if Denmark is to deal with an application for asylum, this procedure must be carried out very quickly. On 4 January 2016, Denmark introduced temporary border controls, but as it is today, the police cannot refuse foreigners seeking asylum at the border. We reject migrants, i.e. people who do not have the documents in order and who cannot prove that they have access to Denmark, do not have a visa for Denmark etc. and who do not seek asylum, and there we have rejected approx. Three thousand people since border controls were introduced. We would like to extend this to the fact that asylum seekers can also be rejected at the border because they come from Germany, which is a safe country. We believe that asylum seekers can and must be rejected at the border if it is found that they are travelling from a safe country, such as Germany. Such a practice would not be contrary to the UN Convention on Refugees, as we know there are a number of politicians and parties who care about it in here. This follows, for example, from the 1951 Refugee Convention, Article 33 (1). 1, prohibiting expulsion or refusal, that no Contracting State may in any way expel or reject a refugee at the borders of such territories where his life or freedom will be threatened by reason of his race, religion, nationality, membership of a special social group or political views. Denmark can therefore, as a clear general rule, reject asylum seekers at the Danish-German border or at other border crossings to Denmark on the grounds that the asylum seeker enters from a safe country. This will be the case, for example, if you enter Denmark from Germany. If the motion for a resolution is adopted if it is adopted at some point, the determination of whether the asylum seeker enters a safe third country must be carried out at or close to the Danish borders, so that the asylum seeker can be repatriated from the country without undue delay. In the Danish People's Party we believe that the most optimal arrangement would be for Denmark to reject asylum seekers and migrants at the border, that is to say, a regular asylum stop, and that we will then take 500 UN quota refugees next year and no more, because in this way we will reduce immigration significantly, and we will be able to control developments here in the Folketing ourselves. I think this is the most honest way of conducting foreign policy. Then those parties who believe that we should take 10,000 a year or 20,000 a year can argue for it in an election campaign, and then they can see how many votes they get for it, and if they get the majority, then they get the majority, and then other parties, it may be a party like the Danish People's Party, can say that we believe that the limit has been reached, that we do not think we can take more this year while next year, we assess, can take 500 UN quota refugees, including families, and that is it. So the Danes know what they have to do with, and frankly that would be the most honest and actually the most democratic thing, because the best thing is for a country to manage the development and the influx itself. This should be the case, but unfortunately it is not the case because a majority in the Danish Parliament rejects the motion for a resolution by the Danish People's Party. We are sorry that we are going to put it again at some point in one version or another, but we have come a bit today with the previous proposal, which has been dealt with, where it has been agreed, as part of the financial agreement between the Danish People's Party and the government, that in particular situations at least, asylum seekers should be rejected at the border. It is, of course, very good that there will now be this opportunity in Danish legislation, but we would like to build on and ensure that all day, all days, all year round, can be denied asylum seekers at the Danish borders. This is clearly in Danish interest in our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323155336	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There were no brief comments. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, and if any of you do not object, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323155400	The debate is open and the first rapporteur is Mrs Karen J. Klint from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323155422	Thank you. There is a good tradition of attempts to develop within the people's church, including attempts to which the current minister has to some extent had to grant exemption, regardless of what government we have, and this is a derogation from other church legislation. For the Church of the People is not just the bearer of traditions. It is also a church that will be relevant both to those who attend the church and to those who only participate in the parish life. Yes, it wants to be the concern of the whole community. It is all well known that the church meets with many challenges. Its organization and structure are experienced heavy and opaque. The members are not exactly in line to be elected to the congregational councils. An incipient shortage of priests is already felt in several parishes. It is challenged by the new composition of the population of globalisation, where many new Danes naturally belong to other religions. It is also challenged by the ordinary lower degree of faith of the Danes, at least by the beliefs of the church. That development has been going on for many years, and there have been many initiatives to do things in a new way, in which both church life itself and the broad parish life today are organized both in respect of it in the Constitution, which binds the church in the Evangelical-Luthorian faith, and for what today's generations need in the near parish life. The church has a variety of offers for almost all generations, and it has a wide range of offers, also at different times than on Sundays. Yeah, it's actually 24/7, all week and all year. It is also important to say that the church's life is based on a high degree of voluntaryness and inclusiveness. But it gets excused the term "frequently seen as a heavy institution to dance with. We in the Social Democratic Party have tried to do something about this, and we have made suggestions on several occasions in this Chamber for improvements, for a broad debate and for the structure of the people's church. We also joined our government base in 2011 if we should not look at it a little bit. In fact, before we did so, the previous government had already proposed in 2007 that the structure of the church should be looked at in relation to what we can describe briefly from wage subsidies to block grants. There has sometimes been a close majority for something to happen, but the last time we tried, it failed anyway. Therefore, it is good that the desire to test new things is not dead for that reason, and therefore we also need to work together on how we can make it work, since it is the Folketing that has to go into the details of the regulation of what to do and what not to do. That was one of the things we would have liked to have given a greater degree of self-determination. There has been a steering committee about the project called "Conference Councils in your way," and they have looked at what might be interesting to make some attempts on the basis of the messages that have come in. In fact, five selected laws have been found within the activities of the church, where it makes sense to look at them. That is also what the proposal for an experiment here today wants to expand and focus on, which is why it is very good that we have the bill for discussion today. I would like to stress here that it is not experiments involving the state's money. It is all attempts that are paid by the Members themselves either in one way or in another, locally at home or through the membership money that goes to the Common Fund. It is also quite wise that the experiments should run for 2 years and can continue for 2 more years, because then we might get them evaluated in a way that we can then also extract some knowledge from those who are sustainable, in order to bring about the changes that I think we will find out to come together. All of this is good, and it is also good that the wide-ranging consultation responses are so positive that something should be done. Few of the consultation responses express concern. And the hearing answers actually take up a lot of pages, so it is not because the church councils and others have not been involved in it. So we welcome the trial bill and also that the law is due to be reviewed by the parliamentary year 2022-2023. For when we have not been able to renew the structure of the church in a single plan, we must take it another way around and take it at the pace that the parliament wants, because we should like to concentrate on a new structure for the church. So we are behind the bill here, but will probably also ask some questions about it along the way, and we will certainly follow with great interest the further work on the experiments, which we hope will be organised in a way so many congregation councils find that they have both the time and the effort to try out some new ways of doing things. There we also believe that we should make some publicity for the experiment law, so that there are more congregational councils that are aware that there are actually some constructive opportunities that they can take on. So we wish the bill good luck on its way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323155949	Thank you to Mrs Karen J. Klint. There are no brief comments. So we're gonna go over to sir's. Christian Langballe from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323155956	Well, I would like to begin by commending the bill and the church minister for setting up these experimental schemes in the church. There are two reasons for this. One reason is that mostly of a personal nature. I have such a dull feeling that in a number of contexts, including church politics, I will take the role of the hopelessly out-of-fashioned old, sour man who expels angry grunts when confronted with any kind of renewal. I hope that with my positive overture I can throw such a brilliance of youth and renewal over my person; that would be nice. The second and also important reason is that there are good tactics in the proposal. First of all, there is a fine respect for the freedom of each congregation council to say to and from, to do things in their own way. I think that is a very positive move and it is glowing through the proposal from beginning to end. It is emphasized that it is the individual church council that has the freedom to say yes and no, also in relation to the attempts being made. This legislation, if I have understood correctly, has brought about freedom and liberalisation of the way in which the church council work is organised, and that is a good thing. However, I would say, and now I am starting to get to grips with the critical issue, because I also expect that that is why we are standing here on the platform; it is to make the critical remarks that we have. I therefore believe that liberalisation can lead to more coercion and more bureaucracy. I think that there are some beauty stains in the proposal that are demeaning it. As far as freedom is concerned, if it is to apply between two parties, both parties must be granted the same freedom. Now it is suggested that you can experiment with economics and with various things, and so I have some doubts about it, and I do not usually say critical of the fact that 30%. The other congregational councils can, and that is good, say no to the project in question, but the Committee of Provsti, which actually includes representatives of the parishes in the provsti, cannot say no. As far as the 70% who have said no are concerned, they are somehow helping to pool in relation to the 30%, although they may have been against, since the money is, as it were, taken from both the common fund and from the fund. If one or more congregational councils would like to organize the congregational council work in a different way, I actually believe that they themselves must keep in mind, then they must pay for themselves, and then they must give themselves the priority that it might be that they themselves came to save on the ecclesiastical equation, and that would be good for them. But the financial responsibility in this matter will of course promote responsibility, because the church council needs to use its own resources and must therefore give priority to it, and that also means that the economy does not run out of control. After all, the common fund does not have unlimited resources, and if this liberalisation means that good money is being thrown at bad, desertless projects and that church tax is going to rise, then I think it actually has a problem. In the same mole with the bishop. I am not known to defend the bishops, I would say, and I think there are many who know that. But right must therefore be right: I think it is unspeakable and unworthy that the church council, with the help of the church minister, can require the bishop to participate in a project. Let me remind you of the word bishop, which comes from the Greek episkopos, which means overseeing. The bishop is the chief theological overseer, and there may be good theological reasons to say no to a project, although it is only about forms of organization if it does not promote the cause of the gospel. Then I would like to draw your attention to something a little strange and also comical in relation to the bill: words such as Christianity, Lutheran, the Gospel, the Christian message is not mentioned once. If you take out words such as Provst and Bishop and Congregation Council and other names associated with the National Church, then the bill might as well have been about the United Use Associations. I should say, however, that the church of the people is in the world because the Christian message is to be preached. The congregational council has Luther's thoughts on the general priesthood, and even in relation to something as prosaic as the organizational forms of the congregational councils, Christianity and the Lutheran cannot be entirely unimportant. So with that remark, I would like to say that I look forward to the committee reading and that I hope that we can resolve the knots that exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323160542	No one has asked for short remarks, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's report is Mr Beazley. Marcus Knuth for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323160549	Thank you, sir. President. The previous rapporteurs have already explained the substance of the proposal very well, so I shall abstain. I would like to say, however, that I sincerely hope that I can radiate just a fraction of the youthful brilliance that Mr. Christian Langballe did, at least in the first part of Mr. Christian Langballe's speech. It would be a pleasure. Basically, however, I would also like to say that I am proud that Denmark is a Christian country. I am proud that we have a government that writes in the government base that Denmark is a Christian country, even though it may be a major irritation to certain semi-pagan red politicians, because the church of the people is a central pillar of Danish society. It provides the framework for some of life's great events: baptism, confirmation, marriage, and funeral. But the church also plays a role in the Danes' everyday life with services and church choirs, baby hymnsong and communal eating. In addition, I believe that the Christian faith, regardless of whether you are a believer or not, is a central cornerstone of Danish culture. Therefore, it is also important that we, from a political point of view, ensure optimal conditions for our church council. As you know, the proposal here stems from the project Congregation Council in your way, which was initiated by the previous church minister. The project was intended to identify, in cooperation with relevant actors, the challenges facing the congregation councils and how best to solve them. Therefore, it is also gratifying that with this proposal we are opening up a flexible framework for the congregation councils to help solve the current challenges. This will benefit not only the church councils, but also the many Danes who use the church. So the Left is very much in favour of the proposal and, of course, we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323160751	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Bruno Jerup of the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323160801	There is no discussion in the Enhedslisten about what our relationship with the church is. We are in favour of complete secularisation, complete separation of state and church. We also believe that there must be a complete separation of the economy, so that the people's church has its own economy and that this is not something that the Folketing should in such a way give extra to or take away. The church itself must take care of this and organize it. This proposal is not a proposal that comes so far in relation to that issue, but the idea of opening up the door to experiments is a positive one. In practical terms, we can see that there may be some situations where it might be sensible to do so in a different way. It is perhaps a little grotesque or a little strange that the Folketing even needs to deal with such a type of bill. I would say that, as a starting point, it should be the National Church itself, the Councils of the Church, etc., which completely ruled and determined on their own basis what they would do. So it may be surprising that such a bill is needed at all; but there are indications that there is, and so we have to take stock of it. But it is actually a little, you might say, state control over the development of trials in the church. Why do we have to have it? Yes, it is obviously necessary, and we must then support it, but it would be better if it were the case that we did not need this type of legislative proposal at all, and that one could just say: if you want to do something else, you can just do it; we should not interfere in that at all. After all, you are your own association with your own foundation and your own members do so. In general, I think it would be an advantage if it were the case that people worked to get the Folketing to spend less time on the church. I'm sorry, Minister, but I really don't think we should have a minister of church. I think it is quite meaningless that we have a minister for a particular church, because a certain denomination ■ that I do not think makes any sense to me. It's like the one. The second point is that Mrs Karen J. Klint also mentioned the question of whether we should change the economy from being a wage subsidy to becoming a block grant. Well, I'd like to say yes immediately. As a first step I'm going to support it but my block grant probably won't be that big. It will be a block grant which will only cover the costs of social conservation, for example. buildings where it can be said that in any case, no matter what religion may use them, we would preserve this because they affect our society for other reasons. So, of course, we will help to look at them and pay for them, but it will probably end up being a block grant of a smaller amount than what is today. But, overall, of course, we have some critical comments on this, but we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161140	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161145	Well, now that monkmarxist attitude to the church comes as no surprise. I grew up in the 1970s and I know very well the views of the Marxists and Enhedslisten on this matter. What just puzzles me is: if the Enhedslisten really wants the church where the pepper grows, why do you even take a position on the proposal? Well, that seems preposterous. Why do you want to play a part in determining some forms of organization that you don't consider anything but jokes and jokes? Well, I don't actually understand the point of view that you want to interfere with the way the church councils organize themselves, while not giving you a penny for the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161238	I do not know whether I have expressed myself unclearly, but at least I have not said that the structures in the people's church are jokes and jokes. I therefore have full respect for the fact that you have something called church councils and all sorts of other bodies and that they also have a role to play. But there I think it is the association that has these things, just as any other association can have some different bodies. And they're good enough for them. That is not, in my view, the question. So can you ask: Should the Enhedslisten even relate to it, or should you just leave the hall? Nah, in this forum we make laws, and Enhedslisten comes of course and helps make those laws. And if there are any good proposals, we will also vote in favour of them. It is not the case that, because we may want the military removed, we cannot discuss military expenditure in this Parliament. Well, that would be weird. Nor is it the case that because we want Denmark to leave NATO, we must not talk to NATO and NATO policy here in the Folketing. Of course we do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161346	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161348	Well, I am not discussing whether the rapporteur should interfere, because the rapporteur must interfere with the same right as I must. All I'm saying is that it's logically inconsistent to think that the church is nonsense, and at the same time to want to interfere in the discussion about how the church organises itself. I have complete respect for the pure position. As I have also said, I grew up with the monkmarxism I know all that. I know the argument, and it's an honest case. I just think it's weird that you want to get involved in how the church organizes when you don't give a shit for the union anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161429	Well, I haven't said anything about how we don't give a shit about the association. We just want that association to be an association for itself... that's the starting point... and that parliament has to withdraw more. And, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, it is, in a sense, regrettable that we have to make this type of law at all, because it should be the case that the people's church could do so regardless. So in reality, it is because in the past, in connection with other laws, a restriction has been made in relation to what the church can do. And what we're doing now is we're relaxing those laws, and I think that's the right way to go about what we're thinking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161510	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Leif Mikkelsen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161521	Thank you. In my party, we have the habit of supporting the legislative proposals that our own ministers are making. They certainly need to be poor in order not to do so, and this is not the case, so I can start by saying that we support the bill. I do not know whether it is the case in the past that there has been a great deal of focus on the church and its conditions. After all, this is a proposal that tries to pursue, we must say the popular work around the church, and give greater self-determination. But it has at least given rise to the situation that on Monday I appeared on TV MIDTVEST in a discussion about the church's relationship • TV MIDTVEST is such a thing that happens over in Jutland and today I have actually been to Radio24sy to discuss the same thing. What journalists are hanging on to, and this is not something that has been achieved within these walls, is the number of members in the people's church, the current number of members, which we have to see, and the fact that, in this context, the church is getting more and more money, and that this is something that goes a little against each other. That is, in fact, a real discussion to take: is there a lack of support or what is happening? The discussion was perhaps even more interesting to take on not so much about the amount of money and number of members but just the number of members has something to do with how committed we are, how many of us are members of the church and then only use it on special occasions and how many are involved. My experience is that when you are a member of an association and you pay a quota, you actually get involved; then you might want something for your money. The fact that we pay it over the treasure is such a rather elusive size. That is why I have actually launched a point of view, and it is certainly not something that I quite a hundred percent have agreed with the church minister that it was worth considering. I know it is in the long run, because then we are near the basic law of discussing the church and the state context once again. We pay it over the treasure, and it's just something that happens. Those who earn a great deal of money can then save something by resigning from the church, and then they can end up performing the ecclesiastical acts if they need them at some point. So maybe we should think about it. If we look at, among other things... We see a different commitment, the way I record it. So I just thought it was relevant that we are so seriously discussing whether there really were other options when we are discussing whether it is just going that way with the church. I will personally be annoyed if it is something that continues and at some point leads to something. At least that is what has been discussed outside the walls of this week, I would just like to say, and not so much what we are discussing here, although it is an excellent proposal that comes here, to give the church councils a freer framework and more opportunities, and perhaps even to lead to more commitment to being elected as a church council, because that is not something that is actually fighting around all places. We support the bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161839	There are brief comments, first to Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161843	[Sound emission]... should be measured in how many members there are of the parties, compared to the church, then I would say that the commitment is very low. We agree with that. So, I would just like to remind you that if you include the immigration that has been there, and I have said this time and again, and take the original Danes and their membership of the people's church, you can see that it is up to 85.9%. I don't know which other institution or what you call it that has that support, and the thing about saying that it's because it's an election congregation and all sorts of other things is talk. This is not something the rapporteur can provide empirical proof of at all. I would say that my general view is that there is a difference between parishes. Yes, there is also a difference between a parish of the country and a large parish of the country and a parish of the city etc. There is a difference between the parishes in Copenhagen on Vesterbro and on Nørrebro and then on the parishes in Viborg. There is a very large diversity, also in relation to support for the church. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323161957	Now Mr. Christian Langballe, we actually participated in the same television debate that I defended it and said that it was not so bad at all that there was 75% membership of the people's church. There are just some tables that tell us that it's just as quietly gone like this, and I guess we can both get upset about that or be sad or be aware of that. That's kind of just what I'm saying. So I kind of defended it and said it's not so bad. That's actually about. 4.5 million people in Denmark who are members of the church. But the trend is there, and it might well be timely to discuss seriously what could be done to counteract the developments which, in my opinion, are beyond that, Mr President. Christian Langballe points to immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162043	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162045	I totally agree. That's what I said in that broadcast, by the way. After all, we are referring to a broadcast which I do not know whether any of those who have at least been present in this Chamber have seen, but I fully agree that there is a challenge for the church, and I also believe that this has been taken on. But at the same time I would like to remind you that the church we have is, to me, the epitome of Denmark, and I would think. It was a great pity for Denmark if one began to consider a separation of church and state. I'm not there at all. I don't want you to open up in relation to the Constitution. Because that would also mean that one should open up in relation to the Basic Law... not talk about!
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162121	No, no, but sir. Christian Langballe may be allowed to have that attitude. But now there can easily be political discussions in Denmark that have to move something serious that can come up in relation to the constitution, and therefore one cannot just say in advance: Hello, we can never touch that. It was a good thing that our ancestors had the courage to do so, so I just think it is a weak argument to start pointing out that we cannot get anywhere near that. Some fundamental changes in this area will actually require it, and I can just say that hopefully some people have the political courage to touch that at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162152	The next brief remark is Mrs Karen J. Klint, Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162156	Yes, and we are a few who really have the courage to do so, for a great deal can be done within the framework of the constitution in relation to the modernisation of the church. So, thank you very much to Mr. Leif Mikkelsen as well as saying that the debate is not dead either with the eyes of the Liberal Alliance. Because I think it is actually a very important debate, and it could well be a debate that was also in favour of the people's church, or at least in favour of the fact that not so many people had a legal protest against the church, if we, as politicians, dared to let go more and give more room for the church itself. At least that's one of the things I believe in. But otherwise I would also have marked to say a little the same as Mr. Christian Langballe said, that if you measure the connection to the church from those who are potential members, you can see that it is up to 85%, and it has actually only fallen from 90%. 85 per cent. over a lot of years. But welcome to the structural debate, which I am very happy to take part in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162254	Yes, yes, and fortunately we come here with a proposal from the Minister that can counteract the decline that is, after all, continuing, we must say that strengthening popular engagement and you can see locally that it is those you choose that determine what content you get for the church. Because there's a lot of exciting things going on. Fortunately, as church rapporteur, a number of churches in Denmark report on what they are planning for the next month, and there is an incredibly exciting public work going on. That freedom and diversity will then be strengthened by that bill, and that is fine. That is why I also started by saying that, when we support the bill, it is both because it comes from our own minister, but also because it is an excellent proposal. That's gonna help.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162334	Mrs Karen J. Klint.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162336	We are still very much in agreement. I have gone so far as to be a member of a church council to feel the heart rate of the church from within, and at least one cannot say that I am not sitting where the reality is and also feeling the trouble there is, but also that one can avoid much of that trouble. But my last comment must be on what Mr. Leif Mikkelsen said about passive and active members. I believe that the church must be very fond of those who pay, even if they are passive members.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162401	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162402	They then do no other good. Now I would say that engagement is usually active participation and not just passive, and that is what we are doing with regard to tax and state. So it was basically just the debate that I think it can be exciting to have left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162416	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ulla Sandbæk from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162424	Thank you. One of the absolute basic values of the church is to be spacious. In fact, there has been talk of the spacious church since the religious awakenings of the 1800s. The challenge at that time was to ensure that, for example, both the inner mission and the Grundtvigians could feel at home in a common church. This led to the laws of liberty on parish bonding in 1855 and the right to form electoral congregations based on at least 20 households in 1868. In both cases the thinking was that the different believing Christians could leave the local parish either as individuals or as a group, but still remain a part of the church. Since then, the challenges to the spaciousness of the church have changed. The diversity to be accommodated is no longer just about theology. The church is today in a religious market where it can only maintain its position as the church of the great majority if it can relate to the fairly diverse expectations of its members. The task as a national church is therefore to reflect in a religiously responsible way the complexity that exists first and foremost among the members. In this respect, the first task is to realise at all what this complexity looks like. This includes, on the one hand, developing a language for diversity and, on the other hand, conducting membership studies which can give an impression of how widely the various forms of belief and life are, as is relevant to the church. The draft law we are discussing today is based precisely on an investigation, since the Ministry of Church, in collaboration with the National Association of Church Councils, the bishops, the founders and the Danish Provence Association since 2014, has been working to clarify how the framework for the congregation councils' task solution and organisation can be simplified, debureaucratised and made more flexible. The purpose of the bill is, in the Minister's words, to give congregational councils additional space to organise themselves in the way that suits them best. They must have the opportunity to be congregational councils in their way. As you know, the church councils are made up of volunteers and as such reflect the same diversity that we find among the members of the church. Therefore, it makes very good sense that the congregation councils are given the opportunity, on the one hand, to deal with the areas in which they have an interest and, on the other hand, to organise themselves individually as a congregation council and as individual members, and, on the other hand, to have a more flexible framework for the organisation of their tasks so as to facilitate their work. The fact that in future there will be the possibility of creating direct legal bases, where there is now only scope for exemption, will certainly be one of the ways in which the work of the Councils of Congregations can be facilitated, to mention just one example of the range of measures that the bill allows to be introduced. I have taken note of the fact that the hearings have been read and included in the draft law. This is another very positive feature of this bill. In the alternative, we have an idea that more people know more, and the alternative also always looks with great sympathy at as many levels of freedom as possible. So we can be happy to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162819	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank Mrs Ulla Sandbæk. We go further in the rapporteur's line with Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323162841	Thank you. The Church of the People has the strength to be part of civil society in any parish and can thus also help to influence developments, the contexts of the local community across the board, the life of association in its various nuances. Together with many other actors, the church can thus help to create connections in the community, in the work of creating a rich church life, widely understood. In short, this is a friendly view of the church. Now, with the L 160, we're gonna have to do some tests. And I'm very much in favour of trials, so I was really excited, but I still wondered why you had to make a law that allowed tests in the church. After all, the responsibility of the church councils is to take responsibility for the local church for which they are the church council, and there are many tasks that can be difficult for the voluntary forces who report to the congregation councils. Therefore, there has also been work for many years to find out how to facilitate the work of the congregation councils in different ways. So now there is the possibility of attempting to derogate from other laws on the state of the church and related administrative regulations, as it is called. That may be fair enough, of course, but what I'm just wondering is that you have to go straight to the hearing answers to find out what the meaning and direction of these attempts really are, and I will end my speech with that so it gets to hang a little in the air. What I want to bear in mind here is that the experiments can include all groups who are in the church. It is voluntary for the congregation councils, but if at least 30%. of the parish councils in a provsti wish so, the provsti must go along with the experiment. So force is used there, while it is voluntary for the congregation councils. If less than 30%. of the church councils so wish, the Provsti Committee must decide for itself so that there is a way it will be voluntary for the Provsti Committee. And if the church councils want to have bishops and pavilions with them, the church minister can order those concerned to participate; that is, it is no longer voluntary. So I would just like to draw a line here and say that I summa summarum think it is very worrying that one will make attempts to impose on some to be involved in experiments that they themselves did not want to be part of. I would just like to ask the Minister to consider this because it is cross-border for me that one can think that one can gain something positive from forcing some who are unwilling into an attempt. That is why I think it is so excellent that it is entirely voluntary for the church councils whether they want to be involved. Then I note that it is the Minister who offers experimental frameworks once a year, and then the church councils can invite in. And it is the Minister who lays down a whole lot of different provisions in this context. It may also be reasonable for the Minister to have the crucial role in this type of task, but I would just like to raise a warning and ask that very careful consideration be given to whether this is something that the Minister should do all alone. Well, I see how Mr. Knox... Christian Langballe will be part of the parliamentary basis for the minister and will help to settle these matters. I have confidence in that in many contexts, and I fully agreed with it, Mr President. Christian Langballe said about provster and bishops it was as spoken out of my heart, so I would like to sign for that; I can agree with Mr. Christian Langballe sometimes. So, of course, I am delighted to see in the hearings that the Minister is prepared to include a follow-up group in relation to which attempts should be made. I think that is actually a very wise point of view and that is to say, on behalf of my party, I can recommend supporting this proposal because, with the way in which the follow-up group has been formulated in the hearing answer, the Minister has actually undertaken to do so. Therefore, it is also interesting to be allowed to help find out who will then be in the follow-up group, and then it starts to create a different perspective.But before I get too cheerful here at the end, I must say that in the hearing answer you can also get an explanation of what it really is, the purpose of all this trial work is because it says, and now I quote from page 10: "The Ministry has emphasized in this context that an overall systematic collection of experience is ensured which can lead to a general revision of church legislation. ▪ Now there is beginning to be a direction for it, and in reality there should perhaps also have been some attempt in the legislation to indicate a direction for where those attempts should point, that is, what the challenges were to be faced; what it is like to burn on, so the minister makes an effort to make a law on tests in the people's church. I think that is missing, and I think that we should consider whether we can somehow get through to committee, possibly by the way we ask questions and the answers that are given. But we can consider that, and it is not to harass or train anything; it is almost to help you together see what is really the direction of this, what are the challenges we are facing and want to deal with. So with those comments, the Radical Left is happy to support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163420	There is one brief comment from Mrs Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163423	Thank you. Thank you, Mrs Jelved, for an exciting speech by the rapporteur, which shows that we have, from a cross-party point of view, supplemented each other very well, including in relation to the structural debate. It is true that we need to read the consultation note. Both on pages 7, 10, 15 and 18, I have at least found some things that are very important, among others. the fact that if provsties and others are caught in by some attempts, it is still gone the church councils who are to free them financially. So my question is going to go to the follow-up group that Mrs Marianne Jelved also mentions. I have the personal view that I think there should also be some employees, because it is, of course, employees who may be active players in some of the structural changes that can be experimented with. What professional group and what personal group is Mrs Marianne Jelved looking at in a follow-up group, or is it open to the present?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163521	In principle it is open, but I have not really thought about employee organization representatives, because they are, as in other ways, close to the congregation councils and who else is working on this. But I've actually been thinking that there could be some people who have some other approaches to everyday life in the public church... it may be some scientists, it may be cultural personalities. I think we should think broadly about who it is that can help to formulate a vision, a direction for the way in which the church might work, or some directions. Because from the challenges we face in Danish society, it is very difficult for me to see what the world looks like in 15 years' time and what is then needed. That is why I started by emphasising that the church of the people has a unique place in our society by being a central institution in each parish, a member association characterized by volunteers all the way through. After all, it is a gift in a civil society that is used to working and taking action to solve tasks together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163637	Mrs Karen J. Klint for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163639	Well, I very much agree that the church is part of the kit which in many ways binds our society together in some communities, and which is worth gold for the cohesion that we have when everything else gets farther and farther. And that's no matter what relationship you have with the church. When I ask about it with employee organizations in follow-up groups, it is because in the follow-up group that was around the Humanities Council in your way, there was one union with, but none of the others. That is why I am thinking of equal rights: if there is to be a union, it may be very narrow to ask one trade union and not other employee groups.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163716	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163717	I think that this type of problem will also be solved. If there is something that you think it is important for employee groups to be consulted or involved or in some way to make comments, then you can organise such a thing. I just don't want to make it clear that it has to be marked by trade unions to put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163738	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163742	Yes, rapporteur, I actually thought we were in agreement, and now I am beginning to think that we may not be quite sure about that direction and direction that the rapporteur would like to see. So, I actually assumed that this was about the liberalisation of legislation so that the church councils can do things the way they want to and which makes sense. I would also like to say that some of the things referred to have been going on in the parishes for many years, for example. joint economic governance and cooperation between cemeteries. Well, all those things are already going on. But I just see the proposal as liberalising. And now we're actually talking about direction and direction, and that's what I'm starting to get mystified, because what does that mean? Well, the purpose of this was not to set the congregation councils free to do things in a different way, so they, for example. can take the financial part and get someone else to take care of it? Isn't that really the purpose of this whole bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163850-2	I really hope I haven't stood here on the platform and used the word "control," because then I'm pulling it back. But with direction I mean what values the Church of the people represents and which we want to maintain or give greater impact to society. And what I really think is the great gift is that, with the voluntaryness and with a specific personal choice to sit on a church council and administer and ensure a living church life around the parish church, you have a strength in a civil society that is used to working across all sorts of organizations. I see the church as an actor in the welfare society of the future, which helps to create quality in different ways. That's what I call a direction. That's why I start like I do. I'm just looking at what role the church can really lift even better and contribute to society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163951	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323163952	I just decided I'd better get back up. With regard to vision, can we not say that the vision of the church is our Lord? I mean, just as a basis, I guess that's what the church is set up for, and besides that, it has some rewards, including in relation to civil society, for which I fully recognise. But I guess that's what's at the heart of the whole thing. And I guess it's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164026	I usually have the exit line, when I've been with people from church circles, that the church is set in the world to preach the gospel. Priests and others who work in the church have been brought into the world to live. It may well be that I do not agree with Mr. Christian Langballe about it, but it's my world of performance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164055	No one else has asked for comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Trine Torp of the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164103	I'll be relatively brief. I was just enjoying that beautiful song down from the Palace Square, it was almost like being in church. I would say that the SF supports the bill to allow for an attempt to increase freedom and flexibility in the organisation of their work by the church councils. After all, we have been supporting initiatives for the renewal and development of the church in a decentralised manner for several years, and we will continue to do so. And it is no secret that we in the SF were sorry that the reform work that was going on in relation to the people's church was put in the drawer. That is why, of course, we support this proposal, which can help to strengthen decentralised decisions. But I would also like to say, as the rapporteur of the Radicals also mentioned, that it may seem a little strange that we have to take a position on this in the Chamber. I wish that a bill could be put forward which, in fact, allowed tests in the church and thus gave something more freedom. But it may be that the Minister brings such a slightly more general freedom to the church. We look forward to seeing what experience is coming out of it, because this can help to pave the way for something more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164219	No one has asked for brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164227	I like the church. Couldn't the church minister grant you a waiver to become a member of the National Church as a cultural Christian Muslim? I think it is an important cultural institution that we have, which we must take care of and safeguard. But it is so when you sit on a church council that it has gradually become administratively heavy. With this bill, we give the congregation councils the possibility of a flexible framework for organizing their tasks so that they can choose more for themselves the weighting between church and administrative tasks. Congregation councils are part of the public administration and are therefore rightly subject to legislation, which many see as difficult and difficult. This is a lot of legislation that is necessary because a church council is not just an activity committee. They plan a lot in the church, they manage properties, etc. The church councils are really a good branch of Danish association life, but there is too much paperwork, there is too much administration, and in some places it becomes so extensive that it takes focus from the more fun church tasks. So we have to give the congregation councils the opportunity to make their own work easier, and we do so without talking about structural reforms immediately. So with the bill we allow for experiments where the church councils themselves can choose a lot of paperwork from without changing the decentralized structure of the public church. It is an experimental arrangement in which the church councils themselves act with suggestions on how they will have the weighting between ecclesiastical and administrative tasks. This should make it easier to be a volunteer in the church. It is also something that has been supported by the chairman of the church council, Søren Abildgaard. When we in the Folketing are about to pass the law, it is crucial that it is also a good attempt that is made to make some experiments that promote the lives and growth of the congregations. I look forward to following that. The Conservative People's Party therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164456	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164501	Thanks for the speech. It is simply because the rapporteur expressed the wish to become a member of the people's church. I have a very simple solution for this: the rapporteur can just be baptized. And I can do that if that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164522	If that happens someday, I'd prefer your daddy's cousin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164531	I would remind you that there is no direct indictment in the Chamber. We are grateful to the rapporteur, and that concludes the rapporteur's line, and we shall move on to the Minister for Churches.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323164554	Thank you for a lively debate. After all, it confirms my feeling that the discussion about the church and the discussion about faith at all is something that in these years has air under the wings of our society, and I think that is very good. I don't know if it's the lovely spring weather that makes you have to experience Mrs. Marianne Jelved send a direct declaration of love to a fiery Mr. Christian Langballe. I was almost startled by it, but we finally had it down again, so the consensus is obviously not quite complete anyway. But it is nice that all parties support L 160, the law on tests in the church of the people, and I would just like to make a few comments. Christian Langballe points to thank you and Marianne Jelved is actually doing a little the same thing about 30 percent. by the congregation councils may impose an attempt on a committee of ministers without the committee of ministers being able to say no and that goes on up to the bishop. It points to a dilemma that exists in the discussion about the church, because we hear many, many times, that there are complaints that it is a top-level church; that it is therefore controlled from above and down and not from below and up. There is, in fact, a possibility of putting power right at the extremes, in other words giving power to impose, for example, the power to impose. a protocol to carry out specific experiments. I am quite open to both the committee procedure here and the further progress towards the final drafting of a legislative proposal on how it should be. We originally had a thought that it was going to be 20 per cent, so we actually lifted it to 30 per cent, but let's look at it. I can be nervous if a committee of ministers is allowed just to say no to attempts that the whole idea of the trials goes away. It's trials we're talking. This is not final legislation. But let's discuss it along the way. Then Enhedslisten says that they would actually like to abolish the Church Ministry, if you can put it that way, because you cannot have a minister who is only a minister of one religion. There we can be pleased with the Enhedslisten that tomorrow we will be publishing the report drawn up by the so-called Committee on Religion. The committee was set up in 2015 and they will be published with a report tomorrow, which includes, among other things: Of course, we have to deal with this in the Assembly Hall... that all religions outside the public church are actually being gathered in the Ministry of Churches as well. So it is not such a ministry of one religion that we are talking about here. So I would just like to inform the Liberal Alliance's church rapporteur that when in these days more money is available in the people's church, this is because the income base, i.e. the printing base, has increased, because the church tax has actually been decreasing in recent years, not much, but slightly decreasing, but when the printing base is increasing, it actually means that there is more money available. By the way, I can say to the Liberal Alliance's church rapporteur that I think we agree that it would be good if the church tax could also be reduced a little. Marianne Jelved is calling for a direction for the experiments, and I have to say that I do disagree a little, because the point of the experiments is precisely that you should be allowed to come up with your ideas on how it can be. A number of attempts are now being put forward, and I do not know if that is the direction, but we are being given some thought about what attempts can be made. A follow-up group is being set up, as Marianne Jelved quite rightly pointed out, and we think it is important that they have an influence on what trials may be offered. At the same time, I would very much like to call for a second trial to be offered for next year, which would be a good idea for other types of experiments to be carried out. Finally, I would like to say that the whole point of this is, of course, to carry out experiments, but also to collect experience so that we can see whether there is a need to make legislation that allows more freer opportunities for people to do things in the congregation councils and parishes on a local basis in a lighter and less bureaucratic way than they do today, so that we promote the purpose of the whole thing, namely life and growth in the people's church into which Members have joined. I think that's what I'm going to say now. Thank you for a good debate and I look forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165022	There are a few brief comments. First of all, however, I should like to remind the Minister that the Minister must also remember to address the honourable Members of the Parliament. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165038	It is not really because we are going to have a long, tiresome discussion on how the proposal is put together, but I just think there is a difference between a church council deciding to make an arrangement with another church council voluntarily and, as it were, going in and requiring the Committee of Provsti to be involved in a proposal. I think that if they want to do things in a different way and want to work together in a certain way, it's fine and good enough for me as long as I can get rid of being in it if I don't want to be in it. But there is a guarantee that this is the way it is. But what I think is the problem is where freedom ends, where it actually becomes a coercion, where it can be said that the right of initiative is being moved and that the money is also being withdrawn from the provsti. So I think there is a problem there, because can one say no at all, and how and how? Well, I just think it poses a problem of principle. I think that the minister should be free to say no to support it, but that people can go ahead with their own equations, because then they themselves have the financial responsibility for it, that is, the church council, right? But it's just a thought and a speech and the Minister doesn't have to answer it right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165155	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165156	I would just like to say briefly that I can easily understand the problems that are being pointed out; we must try to think through and discuss how we can get that country. Because I can easily follow the thinking. I just don't have the answer to whether that's exactly the solution, sir. Christian Langballe points out, or whether we need to think of something else. I'm just afraid we're going to put one too heavy duvet down on these trials even before they get started but let's discuss it along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165219	Sir. Langballe to the second brief remark? No. Then there is someone else with a brief comment, and that is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165225	In other words, the Minister has not convinced me that we should not try to give direction to where these attempts are going. What I then find is, of course, in the consultation note, where it is a question of there having to be a collection of experience which could lead to a general review of ecclesiastical legislation. Well, in which direction? It is not just auditing for the sake of the audit. What are we really going to do about it? What is it that should animate the church councils to say that they will try? After all, it is they who become the main force of the experiments, because they are there in any case. I just think that we need to sit close to the Minister and help to consider what sort of framework experiments should then be offered every year, and then it will be the Minister who is still laying down some directions. I also find it interesting to find out what we want with the church.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165334	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165335	Well, I can tell you what the intention has been here on my part, and it is actually to create a greater freedom for one to be church in one's own way within general popular law. For decades I have been out in these parish houses and have heard one sigh after another about how bureaucratic, cumbersome, rule-driven and ineffective systems are. So the idea is precisely to give an opportunity that you can do it in a way that works better. And it is not certain that it is the same way in Varde as it is at Vesterbro and it is the knowledge we should like to have. So the purpose is not really new... I didn't hear Mrs. Marianne Jelved's management. It's actually getting rid of some of the trip wires that seem to be out there. And if there are no people who report to the trials or have proposals for other experiments we have to do, then it has to be said that in a way we have dealt with some of the criticisms, which have at least been in some places in recent years, of how top-down and bureaucratic things are. But we'll see what comes out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165438	Mrs Marianne Jelved, on a second brief point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165440	Imagine if it had been started with a general opportunity to experiment in the church, so that greater freedom to be church in one's own way can be created. Then you have some idea that you can change things, so that there will be more freedom, and so that we can decide for ourselves something more perhaps. Well, it's just some things I'm looking for, like some kind of arrows for what's the vision we need to share. What if we had a church all over the country that suddenly seizes that vision and works with it? That would be great.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165521	Well, now the hairs are starting to rise a little bit, because I really do not think that we should have a common vision, neither from Christiansborg nor from the Church Ministry. I think that is a misunderstanding in the whole of the church building we have, but it is a long discussion and I think we should go somewhere else. However, thank you once again for the excellent comments and lively discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165540	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Churches. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165603	The debate is open. I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 28 March, 2017. First of all, it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Nicolai Wammen, to justify the request.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165636	Last November the United States elected a new president, and Donald Trump has not concealed the fact that for him the starting point is America first. The parties behind the question therefore want to hear how the Prime Minister and Foreign Minister assess the challenges and opportunities in the transatlantic relationship. Below, please explain how the government will ensure that Danish values and interests are safeguarded in relation to the new US President and his administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165714	Thank you, and we shall go to the answer. First it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323165722	Thank you for that, and thank you to the parties for putting this very meaningful question to the government. If I may start somewhere else, I would say that yesterday we witnessed an appalling terrorist attack in London, where innocent people lost their lives because darkened terrorists have a deep hatred for our social model and the values we stand on and fight for in Denmark, Great Britain, Europe and the United States. So I would like to take this opportunity to express my sympathy to the families of the victims and to say very clearly to Britain and others that we in Denmark stand guard over those values and stand shoulder to shoulder in the fight to protect our democracy from the dark forces. We need each other and to stand together, and that is also in the light of today's debate on the transatlantic relationship, because here we also share fundamental values. And it is important to remember as the beginning of a debate on the transatlantic relationship in the light of the new American administration. And it is also on that basis that on Thursday, in exactly a week's time, I will meet President Trump in Washington, which will be a good opportunity to confirm the close relationship between the United States and Denmark. After all, the questioners have asked the Foreign Minister and I to answer what the government can tell us about developments in the transatlantic relationship in the light of the new American administration. And of course it can be said that Denmark has been a strong partner with the United States and the American people for decades. The strong transatlantic ties have brought peace, stability and growth, and that is why cooperation and the community with the United States is a cornerstone for Denmark and for the government, and that is in our clear interest, both in terms of security policy, foreign policy and trade policy. Therefore, the government will do its part to ensure that the close cooperation with our important allies continues. After all, we are still at the time when the new American administration is coming into place. There are many areas where we do not yet know American policy, but it is obvious that the new administration works differently from the previous one. And that is not surprising. President Trump, after his inauguration, has also made a series of spectacular announcements. Since then, there has been more content and also more perspective on the administration's various policies. This was the case, for example, in Brussels a few weeks ago, when the US Vice President, Mike Pence, stated that the United States wants close cooperation with the European Union. By the way, this was also confirmed in the President's first speech to Congress. I have also noted that there are considerable, what should be called, nuance differences between the messages in the field of foreign and security policy, depending on who in the US administration is sending the messages. And the Foreign Minister will come back to that in his reply. I also note that the American system has built these checks and balances into it. We saw an example of this when the President's entry ban decree was stopped. In addition to the nuance differences, of course, I can also see discrepancies. They exist, and they also exist in terms of value, between Denmark's policy and some of President Trump's statements. But it is part of the picture that a corresponding difference in nuance and inconsistency can also be seen in retrospect when we are assessing former American administrations today, without this having resulted in us having changed the basic Danish policy in each situation where an American decision has been taken, with which we have disagreed. And we're not gonna do that now either. The Americans have elected President Trump. His job is to lead the United States for the next four years, and that is why I think we should be careful with our reactions. I have said before, and I would also like to say here, that we must take care of our response to what might be called the Twitter diplomacy. Because if you like to match the Twitter diplomacy with Twitter announcements, there are many nuances that disappear out of the debate, and then suddenly it gets hard and unmanageable. The new administration has only been in power for a short time, and it is my expectation that in time a clearer line will emerge in American foreign policy. I am sure that in many areas it will follow the line of previous administrations. From the Danish side we will naturally pursue Danish interests. As expressed in the government's constitution, we want a freer, richer and more secure Denmark, and it is of course also governing our dialogue with the United States, and the place where we are seeking dialogue with the United States with the rest of the world. So it is my opinion that, in the current situation, we still need to wait and judge policy on its content and think long-term. For this discussion is primarily about Denmark's overall relationship with the United States. The government will continue to seek close cooperation with the new administration. This is the prerequisite for Danish views to be promoted and heard, and it is the only responsible way of defending Denmark's vital interests. There will be disagreements as there have been in the past. We will take this into account in the ongoing formulation of Danish foreign and security policy, and the government will do so on the basis that the United States is a very close ally. So that is what, you might say, will be the point of departure for our work in relation to the new American administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323170326	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the Foreign Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323170334	Thank you. Following on from the Prime Minister's reply, I would also like to begin by stating that transatlantic cooperation is an absolutely fundamental element of Danish foreign and security policy. This is a historic and close cooperation which has been of benefit to both sides of the Atlantic for many decades. This cooperation is based on and continues to be based on a common set of fundamental values and a desire for peace, stability and growth. That sounds magnificent, you might say, and I actually think it is. I dare not speculate where Denmark would have been in 2017, if after the end of World War II we had not become part of the free Western world with the United States in front. And that I can stand here today on Parliament's platform and speak openly and frankly about our close allies, including those areas where we do not necessarily agree, say much about the social image we have been and are an active part of together with the United States. It is not difficult to see areas where the new American administration, headed by President Trump, and we look at things differently. Among other things, it has. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about worrying signals and decisions in relation to the entry ban, free trade, women's rights and also the climate. There are also examples that we were not entirely in line with the previous administration, so in this way there is nothing new just think about Guantánamo, for example, and about women's rights. We are and must not necessarily agree on everything. I think that has always been a condition, and this has not been the case in the past, it can be said that fundamental Danish exchange rate changes have been made every time American decisions have been taken, with which we have not agreed. And that is how I think it should continue to be. We need to hold on to our line. Nor is my expectation that in future Denmark will agree with the United States on everything, but it is clear that the change of President this time will probably bring about greater changes than we have been used to in the past. At least that's the expectation in many places. On the part of the government, we are already well in the process of establishing contacts with the US administration, which are crucial in our efforts to continue close and confidential transatlantic cooperation. I landed this morning from Washington, where I had meetings with senators, with John McCain, and I also had the opportunity to briefly exchange words with both Secretary of Defense Mattis and Secretary of State Tillerson. Although we are approx. Two months in the lifetime of the new administration, it is not possible to say that it is one hundred per cent in place. It is far from being the case with all the political appointments. There's nothing new about that either. Typically, it takes the new US President six months before the new administration is more or less consolidated, and it must also be expected to be the case with Trump if it does not take even longer. The fact that there are not yet people in all important places is, of course, of some importance for the dialogue with partners, but it is also important for the administration's own policy formulation and implementation. I have therefore also emphasized since the elections in my statements, both here in Parliament and in public, that we must also arm ourselves with some patience. We are still at an early stage in the life of the new administration, while with Trump there is a new way of communicating policy. No one is in doubt about that either. Moreover, I think that is something that we just have to be prepared for and to which we will get used to. But I also believe that we must be careful that we do not react to too inadequate a basis. On the other hand, of course, we cannot just wait for the appointments of over 4 000 politically appointed people who will be in the new administration. We work hard at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs every day to understand the full scope of the decisions taken and communicated in the United States. We do so at all levels and also with the involvement of Danish embassies in other countries, from which we obtain relevant analyses and input. We therefore await the actual formulation of the policy before we respond and we do not respond to all statements and tweets. For example, it has proved useful in relation to Trump's view of NATO and the American security guarantee, which has been the basis of peace and freedom in Europe since the end of the Second World War. We are all aware of Trump's statements in the election campaign, which questioned the security guarantee, just as he claimed that NATO was obsolete. Subsequently, both the President, but also Vice-President Pence and Minister for Defence Mattis, have expressed strong support for the alliance. At the same time, however, I note that it is important to get on board and that is the expectations from the United States are unmistakable. NATO member states must increase defence budgets and show political will to meet the commitments made by the Heads of State or Government at the NATO summit in Wales in 2014. This is a problem that will hardly go away. NATO remains at the heart of Danish security policy. It is therefore essential that the transatlantic relationship remains strong and solid. I therefore very much welcome the clear support of the US administration for NATO and, at the same time, look forward to the forthcoming discussions within NATO on the future of the alliance. I also had the opportunity yesterday to briefly exchange words with the NATO Secretary-General, Mr Stoltenberg, who was also recently visiting Copenhagen. There could also be mention of relations with Russia and the situation in Ukraine, where earlier statements have subsequently been made, it has to be said, very nuanced, and where key people such as Vice-President Pence and Foreign Minister Tillerson have brought greater clarity to American policy. On several occasions, we have seen statements from the new administration, which are similar to those of the Obama administration. I continue to believe that it is too early to conclude what Russia's policy will actually be like with Trump at the helm. We are, of course, following this very closely, and we are still working for a line of robustness and principle. We are trying to put the pressure that we can do in relation to that being the line that is being pursued. This is best ensured, not least by the fact that we have a common EU line, with which Trump must also deal. It is important that the European Union continues to reach out to the new US government to seek to continue its cooperation in the area of sanctions policy. It is very much in Denmark's interest that we stand guard over a rule-based international system where gross violations meet with a clear response. At the same time, as I said before, we must also bear in mind that there are many historical examples of cases where we have not always agreed with the United States on the line taken. Guantánamo is an obvious example. We also have such cases with the new American administration, which should not be concealed. There are, for example: some of the different decrees that have been about entry bans and the course around them. It's been a messy affair. Let me begin by making a few comments on the actual process of the entry ban. I immediately described the resolution as unwise and unfair, referring to the fact that we must judge and meet each other as individuals and that the resolution will have very severe consequences for a large number of people and, as a tool for combating terrorism, the resolution was, in my view, too broad in scope. But I also have to stress that, of course, it is the United States itself that decides who they will allow to enter. That's the way it is. As you know, the new entry ban decree is currently in force. We are being put out of hand and, of course, we are following developments closely. The process around the entry ban in a way also illustrates the point of showing patience and not reacting too strongly. Since it was clear that Danish citizens with dual nationality would also be subject to the entry ban, we contacted the US authorities. The reactions from Denmark and other countries concerned led within a few days to the decision by the American team that Danes and other nationalities not subject to the entry ban would not be covered by the decree as long as they traveled on a passport not covered by the ban. It has been a rather unsightly process. I do not think anyone is in any doubt as to where a far-reaching decision has been taken without prior information to other countries about the consequences. The American administration can rightly be criticised for this, and, as you know, the government has done so. Trade policy is an area in which we still have to wait for the new American administration to settle down more precisely. It is clear that right now TTIP has been paused, but unlike the US's major free trade agreement with Asia, the Pacific region, the TPP that Trump has withdrawn from the United States, it is very possible that discussions on strengthening the transatlantic economic partnership will be resumed at some point, and we will look forward to that. Let me also mention women's health and rights, which is an area in which we in Denmark have made a significant commitment to dialogue with the Americans and the international community. Trump's announcement of the re-establishment of the so-called global gag rule has been rejected by the Danish side, as it intends to remove all American support to international organisations that advise, support or actively promote abortion. Denmark is working with like-minded countries to maintain a strong voice for the right of girls and women to decide their own body, which also includes access to information, contraception and safe abortion. With global gag rule, the new US administration has taken a position that we do not agree with. However, as I mentioned earlier, the transatlantic relationship is characterised by the fact that there is also room for us to disagree with each other, and that is the case here. The Minister for Development, together with European colleagues, has taken the lead in ensuring even greater EU focus and support for this important agenda. In addition, on 2 March, Denmark, together with Belgium, Sweden and the Netherlands, hosted an international conference in Brussels aimed at mobilising political and financial support for the agenda. There are, of course, many examples of areas where we have common interests and objectives and where we work closely together. Let me mention the coalition work in the fight against ISIL. The fight against terrorism is at the heart of Danish foreign and security policy, and it was also in this context that I visited Washington yesterday, where we had a major conference in the coalition. Today's greatest threat on this front is ISIL, and the fight against ISIL is taking place in a broad international coalition, which consists of over 60 countries, including, of course, the United States as a central coalition partner. Denmark is one of the first nine countries to be asked about participating in the coalition, and of course we were ready to participate in the work. It is important that we maintain the line. This is a good coalition work and an extremely important agenda, and it is a cooperation in which, of course, we on the part of the government will endeavour to continue and where we have also won significant military victories in recent times. ISIL is retreating. They do not have near the attractiveness they have had in the past, for example. In relation to foreign warriors. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that Denmark, the European Union and our neighbouring countries will continue to have a large share of interests with the United States on a wide range of global challenges. The global security situation with Russia as well as migration and the fight against terrorism underline the need for cross-atlantic cohesion. We need strong transatlantic cooperation both within and outside NATO in view of the many global challenges we face. The choice of Trump has not changed that, and as long as we do not overreact to individual statements and policies that have not yet been formulated, but seek cooperation and actively work for Denmark's foreign and security policy interests, I am convinced that the transatlantic relationship will continue to ensure peace, stability and growth. And in every meeting I had in the last 24 hours in Washington, that was the signal that was sent clearly by everyone I had conversations with. Americans also attach enormous importance to the continuation of this cooperation, and this must be done in a good spirit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323171635	We shall now proceed to the debate. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323171648	Like the Prime Minister, I would like to begin by expressing my sympathy and solidarity with Britain and, above all, with the families that have been affected and those who have been injured, who are also currently fighting for their lives in hospitals in Britain. It is an attack on not only London and Britain, it is an attack on our democracies, and it is important that we, on the Danish side and on the European side at all, and on the part of the world community, express our full support for Britain, including in this matter. Today is also a day when we are discussing the transatlantic relationship. It has been several months since Donald Trump was elected new president of the United States, and the last weeks and months have shown us that there is certainly a new political rhetoric in the White House, a rhetoric which clearly indicates America first as the direction of Trump's government. However, it is still more uncertain to what extent rhetoric will be followed by concrete action on the day-to-day policy and the very central focal points of transatlantic cooperation. That is why today's inquiry debate is important. For social democracy, it is crucial that the international community remains founded on the UN, the EU and NATO as the main pillars. It is in Denmark's interest that we build the international community on international law and not only on the rights of the strong. Social democracy insists that the framework of an international legal order sets a progressive agenda for peace and security, climate action, sustainability, free trade, the development of democracy and human rights. That is why it is also crucial that we in the European Union stand together on these values and that this applies regardless of what policy may be in the White House. At the same time, we would urge the United States to support the work of the United Nations and NATO in the future, and that our close allies on the other side of the Atlantic see the European Union as a partner and not as an obstacle to finding common solutions to global problems. The relationship between the United States and Europe is unique and strong. It has deep roots in many families, in our culture, in our values and in our history. It is a bond bound together by democratic societies which, for generations and in war and peace, have been close allies and friends. The transatlantic relationship has been deeply anchored in our mutual belief that Europe will become weaker and more uncertain without the United States, that the United States will become weaker and more uncertain without Europe, that NATO will contribute to our common security, and that the alliance will be in our mutual interest, that the European Union will help to strengthen and secure and develop a Europe martret of world wars and the crimes of the Iron Curtain, and that, therefore, a well-functioning European Union will not only be in the interests of Europe but also to a great extent in the interests of the United States. The transatlantic relationship is built on mutual respect and it has been crucial in ensuring peace, stability and growth on both sides of the ocean. This has been the starting point for all the most recent administrations, whether the President has been called Kennedy, Reagan, Clinton, Bush or Obama. That is why it has been a cause for concern that presidential candidate Trump on several occasions rhetorically questioned NATO cooperation, the importance of the European Union, the role of the United Nations, a strong and consistent approach to Russia, free trade and the fight against climate change. The vital question now is: what is rhetoric and what is real policy? Here the picture is not yet clear, because we have seen both positive and highly worrying steps by the leaders of the new government. On the plus side, for example, both Vice-President Pence, Foreign Minister Tillerson and Minister for Defence Mattis have clearly and unequivocally underlined the full participation of the United States in NATO cooperation, with a strong desire for stronger European commitment, now, but also so crucially, with unmistakeable statements that NATO is not an outdated institution, but rather the very cornerstone of the transatlantic security structure, with all that it entails, including the muskete nest in Article 5. This is extremely important, not least at a time when we are seeing an increasingly aggressive Russia that has annexed Crimea and which is rattling with the sabre in relation to the Baltic States and the Baltic Sea. In such a situation, there is no room for NATO countries to go their separate ways. We must stand together so that Putin and Russia cannot exploit differences and divisions across the Atlantic. Unfortunately, the new US administration has also offered serious disappointments, and only last week we saw how the American Finance Minister, in the context of the Baden-Baden G20 meeting in Germany, blocked the adoption of the crucial and quite usual declaration on the importance of the fight against protectionism and climate change. There is no reason to hide the fact that this was an extremely worrying step in the wrong direction, and from the point of view of Denmark and Europe it is important that this signal be sent to the President of the United States and his people, because here it is about growth, jobs and the future of our planet, and here we need a United States which, together with Europe, is at the forefront, and not a United States which chooses to be a stop-block. For social democracy, the transatlantic relationship remains of the utmost importance. We believe that Europe is dependent on the United States, but also that the United States is dependent on Europe when it comes to our common security, and the dangers are many, and there are very dark thunder clouds in the sky. We are seeing a more aggressive Russia, a Turkey where the situation is becoming more serious day by day, a peace process between Israel and the Palestinians, which is in deep crisis, a Syria on fire and an important fight against the terrorism of the Islamic State. We are experiencing an unstable North Africa and a North Korea that continues to move in an increasingly worrying direction. The global reality therefore tells us not less, but more cooperation between Europe and the United States, and it would be an historic mistake if the United States chose to withdraw from the world rather than try to influence it. Even the United States cannot stand alone and the international community needs the joint progressive efforts of the United States and the European Union if the world is to become a really better place to live. At the same time, however, I believe that we must realistically expect that in a number of areas there will be greater differences in political positions than we have traditionally been used to in relations between the United States and Europe. This applies especially to free trade, climate policy and the importance of a strong UN. Here it is crucial that Denmark and the European Union do what we can to move the United States in a progressive direction and that we do not hide from our American friends that we are dealing here with vital Danish and European interests, that we in Europe look forward to cooperation with the new US Government, but that we will continue to fight for what we believe in, even when it means that we disagree with the President of the White House. Denmark's message to President Trump should therefore be that America must not mean cooperation with Europe until the end, that we will work together and that it is in mutual interest. I shall now read out a proposal for adoption. Now that I have heard that the Prime Minister is on his way to a meeting with Donald Trump in the White House, I very much hope that the statement here in the vote is one that the Prime Minister will take with him, and this also applies to the concerns that are clearly expressed, in other words that they will be raised with the President of the United States. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and also the Conservative People's Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The transatlantic relationship is a cornerstone of Danish foreign and security policy. The strong transatlantic ties have brought peace, stability and growth for decades. The Folketing supports the government's efforts to maintain a close transatlantic relationship based on the many common interests and values. The Danish Parliament notes that there will always be policy areas where the US and Denmark have different positions and that this is and will be the case with the new American administration. The Danish Parliament looks with concern at the announcements made at, among others. free trade and climate change, but at the same time notes that the Trump administration has not fundamentally called into question the importance of close transatlantic relations. The Danish Parliament supports the government's ongoing position on the new administration's foreign and security policy as it is formulated. Parliament calls on the government to work to ensure that transatlantic cooperation is based on the values and interests that characterise Denmark's foreign policy. V 57).
ParlaMint-DK_20170323172732	The proposed adoption will be included in the further negotiations. A few have asked for brief comments. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323172743	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for a very good speech, which deals precisely with many of the challenges that this new administration in the United States has to face. I would actually like to start asking questions about something practical too, because now it is not just words that come from the administration. We have seen it at the G20 summit, precisely that the entire climate challenge is being written out at the last minute. I and the Alternative are really, really, really worried about that. That's why we're also looking at what we can do to make sure we don't lose momentum in this if we have this climate-denial administration over there. So does the rapporteur really see a need for us to begin to reach out more slowly from the European side to other major players worldwide, so that we do not get to the bottom of this important climate issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323172838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323172839	I think it is very important that we cooperate globally with all the countries that are prepared to take responsibility for combating climate change, so that we also have a planet for our children and grandchildren and great-grandchildren. There we have seen progress with the former American administration, the Obama administration, and there was also the agreement in Paris. What is worrying is that the G20 summit between finance ministers has now taken a step in the wrong direction. That is why I hope that both the European Union as a whole, but also other countries, will agree with the United States and emphasise the importance of what was agreed in Paris, because we expect the new administration to recognise and work for this too. Then this is also an apartment. Today Parliament raises a concern with a broad majority, although the author's party is not in the proposal for adoption. But both the government and the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left and the Danish People's Party raise a concern. There is a majority in the Danish Parliament that clearly says that there is a concern here, and that is something the Prime Minister will raise with the American President when they meet next week. I certainly cannot recall that there has been such broad support for raising such a clear concern over the past many, many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173010	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist for a second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173013	The rapporteur is not surprised at the fact that the alternative would have preferred a different wording and would therefore also have provided this with regard to some of these issues. However, it is one thing to remind the United States of its commitment to the Paris Agreement, something else is actually also to take due care and say that all right, it is going the wrong way over there, so what can the rest of the major positions of power in the world globally do to stem the problems we may and most likely will see from over there. That is where I am calling for a little more active action in relation to the European plan, among other things. with China, with South America etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173055	We're in complete agreement. What I also said in my reply was that we must engage all the forces that will work to ensure that we take the climate challenge seriously. After all, a very sensible result was achieved in Paris, where the then American President was a positive force. The very first task before us is to ensure that the results achieved in Paris do not now fall on the ground because a new President has arrived in the White House. That is why I very much hope that the Prime Minister will raise this issue with the President of the United States, because this is absolutely central. It is a clear commitment from the United States that has been made, and we must expect that the new President will also be in line for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173147	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173149	Well, thank you. I think the big question today and in the years to come is really what is, like, the smartest approach to the new President Trump in the United States. Is it going on list feet, or is it saying clearly what you mean? I think that the problem with the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Nicolai Wammen read out is that you go too much on list feet, and it creates problems that you do not say clearly against some things that I think you should say against. For example: I am surprised that the Socialist rapporteur says that it is hoped that the concerns raised in the adoption will be raised by the Prime Minister when Prime Minister meets President Trump. It is perfectly obvious that the Prime Minister is doing so. Why, then, does the proposal for the adoption of women's sexual and reproductive rights not mention? Well, this so-called gag rule is something that is a clear decision that Trump has made and which will have very disastrous consequences for many women's rights around the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173300	I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that this is a wrong decision taken by the American administration there. At any rate, social democracy strongly disagrees with the Trump administration's decision to make it harder to assert women's rights, including women's rights to their own bodies, and in general the consequence of this is that we are now going in and undermining the possibility of having abortion, too, is a huge step backwards. There are two specific examples in the proposal for adoption, but the wording also says, among other things. in terms of protectionism and in terms of climate change. In addition, there are a number of other things that are deeply worrying, the rapporteur himself mentioned one of them, and we fully agree that this is something in which the United States, under the new President, has taken a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173358	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173400	Thank you. I think it is very important that we are very clear in the language of President Trump. I think he's a type of guy who likes to say things clearly and in cash. That is why I am also pleased with the statement that Mr. Nicolai Wammen comes here in relation to the disastrous decision he has made that will prevent sex education and contraception for millions of women around the world. So I just want to know if this is also a call from the Social Democratic Party to the Prime Minister to raise that question when the Prime Minister meets with Trump.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173441	I think it would certainly be a relevant topic for the Prime Minister to discuss with the President of the United States. I have also seen that the Danish Government has actually been critical of that decision. I think it's good that you've been. That is why I hope that the meeting that is going to take place now may be that the Prime Minister will say something about it a little later in the debate between President Trump and the Prime Minister will be an opportunity to underline the clear statement by the United States that they are standing by and behind NATO cooperation, and to criticise, on the Danish side, those places where the United States is pulling in the wrong direction, not just to stand and punch each other in the head, but in the hope that the United States can be put on a more progressive agenda, both in terms of climate, free trade, women's rights and a number of other points.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173538	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and the next rapporteur is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323173557	Thank you very much. First of all, I am delighted that the Prime Minister has to go to Washington so quickly and so early. I think it is a great honour for Denmark. As I see it, we are number three or four in the line, and that says something about the cooperation and the relationship we would like to have. There is a saying: If you cannot have the one you love, you must love the one you get. The pragmatic and sensible saying applies particularly to our view of changing American presidents. We love to keep up with their election campaigns over there, and even if we do not have the right to vote, we share enthusiastically and at times furiously in whom we support and whom we absolutely cannot stand. Many of our favourites have been very disappointed, while many of those whom we Europeans absolutely could not stand turned out to be not so bad. Barack Obama, whom all of us Europeans loved very much, and who, shortly after his accession, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for having found the slogan 'Yes we can', did not receive Guantánamo, as he had promised, just as he was about to choke in the Middle East. On the other hand, he showed himself to be paralyzed in Syria and, on the other hand, to be at odds with both Israelis and Arabs. Ronald Reagan, who, in Svend Auken's words, was a gun - mad cowboy, turned out to be a true man of peace. He made reconciliation between the United States and the Soviet Union and was among the handful of key figures who finally put the vicious Soviet Communist dictatorship where it belongs, namely at the tip of history in an ice-cold mausoleum. There's so much like that, and then there's Donald Trump. I wonder how his legacy will be when he moves out of the White House in four or maybe eight years. Yes, as has been said, history has shown us that we must be very careful to predict when it comes to American presidents. So I will confine myself to stating that the fact at the start-up stage is that, in general terms, we Europeans are not very much in love with President Trump. It is also strange when the President of the United States does not want to shake hands with his guest, who is Germany's chancellor, when both the photographers and the chancellor themselves call for it. Such a thing is not proper; such a thing is not normal to do to a close ally, a high-ranking guest, unless one is just an Iranian ambassador who refuses to shake hands with the President of the Folketing, but that is another story. Nor is it normal practice for the President of the United States to start his term of office by insulting the whole Mexican people and a great many other peoples. Nor is it traditional for American courts to reverse the president's decrees one by one, or for the world's most powerful man to sit and twitter all the time. It all seems awkward. Much of what is going on is so surprising, so diplomatic unusual, so weird and so new to us. And this is where we are. We are simply not in a position for the moment to tackle President Trump, and the debate here today will certainly not contribute to a deeper understanding of the President's private universe either. But here it is that we have to rely on the Danish-American cooperation and unity to be so unbreakable strong, so trusting and so solid that it will stand its test, no matter what marvelous things we may experience. We know and trust Congress, we know and trust the Republican Party, and we know and trust the other well-established, deeply-founded American institutions. The American people have elected Donald Trump president. That is how the elections, in accordance with the US electoral rules, have come to an end. It is the reality of Europeans and it is the reality of Danes. It is most likely that in Denmark we did not get the one we loved, but, as mentioned, especially when it comes to the Americans' choice of president, we must resort to our old saying: If you can't get the one you love, you must love the one you get. And why do we have to do that? Yes, we do, because since the occupation it has been the duty of all of us in the government and parliament to ensure that the United States is Denmark's very best friend at all times, and that Denmark is the best friend in the United States. It serves NATO best, and it serves Denmark best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and we go further in the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174049	Thank you. Now we are debating the transatlantic relationship, so allow me to start by saying, not America first, but first things first. In other words, the most important first thing, and the most important thing here, as several people have said, is the emphasis that a strong transatlantic relationship is important. It has been historic, and it is now, and it will continue to be. Since World War II, the United States has been the guarantor of security in Denmark and in the rest of Europe. The United States has contributed heroically and wholeheartedly to first defeating the Nazis and then to holding the Communists' rod. But also in recent times, when the images of the enemy or theisms have been given a new and less tangible expression in the form of fundamentalism and terrorism, we stand with the Americans, and the Americans with us. Therefore, it is important to establish that the United States is Denmark's most important single partner and ally. Having said that, it is no secret that although we agree on many things, there are also areas where we do not entirely agree with the United States. For example: During the election campaign we heard unfamiliar and disturbing statements from the then presidential candidate and current president that the United States should downgrade NATO cooperation as it was obsolete. There was even doubt about the so-called musketeered in Article 5 of the NATO Treaty, and one could have the fear that the American security guarantees were not as firmly established as we have assumed they were since the Second World War. That is why I am pleased that both President Trump and Vice-President Pence and Minister for Defence Mattis, on the other side of the election, have chosen to express very strong support for our peace and freedom-loving alliance. We are also hearing a new American rhetoric about trade policy. By the way, it's at the moment. a demonstration against free trade out in the Palace Square. It is not my experience that they are violent supporters of President Trump. Free trade is something that makes us all richer. It is something that creates interdependence. It is something that binds the world together and the dependence is the best guarantee of peace one can have at all. Now, however, we see an American administration that has pulled the United States out of the big free trade agreement, the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the TPP, and across a broad spectrum will have a so-called America first approach to trade policy. Although it would probably be in my liberal optics to put America first to strengthen free trade, it is not my experience that that is what is meant. It is clear that we in Denmark must and will follow closely the development and roll-out of the new American administration's policy. However, although the rhetoric of the President of the United States in these areas has been, and is, both significant and unfamiliar, we really do not know what concrete actions are going to follow up on them. After all, there are limits to how concrete policy measures can take place over 140 characters. Here I very much agree with the Foreign Minister that patience is an important virtue for Denmark and the rest of the world. It should be borne in mind that this is far from being the first time in history that an American President or an American administration has said or is doing things that we in Denmark do not support. But that does not mean that Denmark stands alone in the world on those points. We also have other very important communities that we can protect Danish interests through. The importance of European cooperation has not diminished, and we are perhaps also a few who believe that President Trump has a point in saying that it would be natural for Europe to take a little more responsibility for the major security challenges that we see in and around Europe. So the short of the long term is that we must continue to uphold the transatlantic relationship, because it is important. It's important to all of us. And even if there are areas where we in Denmark may disagree with the announcements made by President Trump, and perhaps in a quiet moment draw a little bit on the smile tape by the often rather unorthodox way, the announcements are served, it is important to make it clear that we continue to have many common values and interests and that the United States remains and must be Denmark's most important partner in many areas. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174536	There are, for the time being, two questions or comments. The first is sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174541	Thank you to the rapporteur. Yes, patience can also mean that if you wait a long time for the bus when it is late, you will be late. What worries me about this is that we may not have the due diligence in relation to some of the major global issues because we are awaiting much. I would actually like to try to ask a little about the rapporteur's reflections that Trump is actually trying to destabilise Europe when he goes out and praises Brexit as a wise and smart decision, and when he consistently meets with good Heads of State as our own, he meets with right-wing populists and anti-European forces. After all, these are the people he has first met with, and then our Prime Minister comes here now. So is it not the rapporteur's concern that we see the traits of the leader of the United States and that he is actually expressing this desire to destabilise European cooperation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174644	When I call for patience, it is not a question of putting the world to a standstill until we have got a direction from America, but it is a question of perhaps being a little hesitant about just taking the first tweets or the first comments for too good goods. So I do not share the criticism that it is simply too bad that Denmark's Prime Minister is only the international guest no. 4 in line, if I have counted correctly, in the White House. I think that is actually very, very positive, and I very much agree with Søren Espersen on this, who also mentioned it before. So my call is just that: let us not panic about some perhaps hasty comments. I believe that European cooperation is strong, I think it is important, and I do not think that anyone from outside should break up with that. Others are trying to do that, and Putin should not be allowed to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174743	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174743-2	It may be that it is the fourth head of state, but what is said may be that there have been many meetings with a Nigel Farage and a Marine Le Pen before going to the serious Heads of State over there. I am actually looking at the actions, and that is where I am thinking: perhaps we in Europe should start to see how we can look each other deep in the eye and then go out to some of the other forces that are worldwide • South America, China etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174820	I very much agree with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. The climate area is also one of the areas in which I raise my eyebrows, and this is also evident from the joint proposal for adoption, which was read out earlier by Mr Beazley. Nicolai Wammen. I also think that you should drop a little bit of panic here. I'm not saying that sir... Rasmus Nordqvist is panicked about it, and I understand the concern, but a large part of the American climate and energy policy lies in the individual states, where, in my optics, we have a more sensible mindset in relation to it. Yes, we must also listen to other countries in the world, and I agree with that, and it is strange at large meetings to hear China be the advocate of free trade, while America is more reluctant. I just hold on to the fact that free trade is good, no matter what people say out here in the Palace Square, and no matter what people say in the White House. Free trade is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174919	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323174920	That Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen is pleased with free trade, I do not think that many people are surprised, and if you listened to the speech, you could also understand that Mr Ellemann-Jensen is not here. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen and the Left are happy with NATO, and I do not think that anyone is particularly surprised either. However, in answering the last question, the rapporteur also said that there was concern about the climate. When I am writing to ask, it was actually to ask: is there anything other than free trade, NATO and now also the climate that the Left is worried about in relation to the decisions and statements that have come from Trump? As I said earlier, I think Trump is a type of person where I think you cheat yourself if you think that the right way is to go on list feet. In fact, I think it makes sense to speak clearly, which is why I would just like to hear from the Left here today: are there other areas where it is believed that Trump has made a problematic decision?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175025	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen had previously addressed a subject such as the global gag rule, which we still have, I would not like to say for good, but which we still have to wait to see how it unfolds completely, and there one might ask whether it is important to tell America what we think of it or whether it is important to act on it. What the Danish Government has done is act on this. So the Danish Minister for Development has, of course, taken the lead and has gathered a number of European colleagues to stem the consequences this might have in the Third World, because it is a Danish core priority. In other words, sexual and reproductive health and rights are something on which we broadly agree in this Chamber, and we see this as quite natural. It is simply not practically anywhere else in the world. So I think the strongest signal one can send here is to take an active lead, as the Minister for Development in Denmark has done, and act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175121	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175122	Thank you. I am glad that the rapporteur stands firm on this Danish policy, which is, of course, to defend women's sexual and reproductive rights, and it is quite true that fortunately this initiative has been taken in order to try to compensate. However, as the situation stands, it is not the case that Denmark or other European countries, as I know, will increase their development aid. They will take development aid from other parts and then take it to this area, so that you sort of close a hole, but will create other gaps, and that can cause problems elsewhere. Not least, it can also cause problems for organisations which receive support from Denmark, which could lose their support from the Americans if what is on the table goes through. So I would just like to hear from the Left rapporteur: will it also be the call of the Left to the party's own Prime Minister to raise this when meeting with Trump? Because it would help a lot if gag rule were not implemented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175220	I agree with the rapporteur on this point. But instead of dealing with how the world would be better if it looked different, we have to deal with what it looks like, and I think it is actually an important initiative that we have taken from Denmark. That's right, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen says that when you need funds somewhere else, you have to take them from somewhere else. So it is with everything here in life, and especially here in the Assembly Hall, and there are a number of parties that have joined. That's the way it is, and I think this is an important area. Because it is an area in which we are strong, it is an area on which we agree, and it is an area in which Denmark and like-minded countries can make a big difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175301	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more questions. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr President. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175319	Thank you. I believe that the election of President Trump in the United States is deeply worrying and that it basically questions how we should conduct Danish foreign policy in the future. After all, it is no secret that Denmark has been following the line from Washington for decades and not least in the last 15 to 20 years very uncritically. And I have to say that the way in which we stand here today and have this debate in itself is actually a matter of concern to me. When attempts were made some time ago by Enhedslisten and the Alternative to obtain an urgent request on the basis of the statements made by President Trump on the sexual and reproductive rights of women, the so-called gag rule, it was rejected by a majority of the Folketing that an urgent request could be made. It's normal to allow it, and we've had urgent questions about things that I think most people want to smile at at home on the couch. But exactly the thing about acting quickly in relation to something that has been Denmark's clear priority for many years, and making a clear and rapid announcement from a majority in the Folketing, yes, it simply did not have a majority to allow even there could be a debate on it. I find this problematic and worrying in relation to the future. And it is also in stark contrast to how other countries have acted. If, for example, we look at the British Parliament, which cannot in any way be accused of being anti-American or not being close to the Americans, then it took 24 hours after Trump's decision to introduce this entry ban on Muslims to get a clear vote in the British Parliament with a clear criticism. It is of course interesting that a country like Britain can adopt clear and rapid criticism, while a majority in the Folketing prevented us from having a similar debate in the Folketing. As you know, it is important to be able to criticise your friends, and Denmark and the United States have an enormously close relationship. But I get worried when there's what I sense is a fear when it comes to criticising the US government. I have to say that it is, of course, positive that we have the debate today, but I hope that we can be much quicker to react in the future. Because I think it's a completely wrong strategy to go on list feet and like be faithful and hope that what the American President says and writes and decides doesn't happen anyway. I think it is important to speak clearly and criticise people like Trump when you think it is necessary. And it is in this context that I must say that this is not the first time that we have American presidents who are doing something stupid. And that's where the tracks for me to see scare. I mean, when you last had a Republican president it was US President Bush junior he chose to go to war in Iraq bypassing the UN. And there was a majority in this Parliament that supported that. It proved to be based on fake news and lies about weapons of mass destruction, and it has helped create chaos and instability both in Iraq and in the neighbourhood and paved the way for extremists, as we now see with the Islamic State. This underlines the importance not only of bending your neck uncritically and following what is being said from Washington, but of thinking very carefully. And I really think we should do that from the Danish side. It is absolutely essential that we do not compromise our values, but stand up for our values and work for a strong international legal order, a strong UN, and work to strengthen cooperation in the North, in Europe and in the world to ensure sustainability, ensure equal rights for all and ensure that it is not just the big one in the class that beats the small ones, but that we have an international legal order and international law that is not undermined. Against this background, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. And it reads as follows: Suggested adoption The Parliament stresses the importance of guaranteeing women's sexual and reproductive rights and therefore finds President Trump's so-called gag rule, which prevents women's liberation and sexual education in developing countries, deeply critical. Parliament calls on all countries to honour their commitments in the Paris Agreement to counter climate change and therefore calls on the US Government to drop the Dakota pipeline. The Danish Parliament stresses that the right to live free of discrimination is a fundamental human right and therefore expresses great concern about the plans to impose an entry ban on Muslims. Denmark is a small country which has a great interest in a clear international legal order and a strong UN. Similarly, in view of the worrying decisions and announcements by US President Trump, we should strengthen cooperation at Nordic and European level. We will not compromise on our values, but work for sustainability, equality and fundamental rights for all. V 56).
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175937	Thank you. Proposals for adoption have now been put forward and will be part of the further work on the question. There's one question. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323175948	Thank you. The Enhedslisten's concerns are many. I think that Enhedslisten such most of the time is worried about something, and that's fine. But I want to know if there are any American presidents at all who haven't worried about the Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180008	Thank you. We actually had the pleasure of being with Foreign Policy Name in Iran, and there we were on a fun visit to the Russian embassy. There were chairs from the world leaders who met at the Tehran Summit. I have to say that I deliberately sat in Roosevelt's chair. And I would say that the plan that Roosevelt had and the effort that Roosevelt made to use the post-war situation to work to create a United Nations and an international legal order are very, very remarkable and positive in preventing us from ending up in the terrible situations leading up to the Second World War.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180104	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180105	Well, we're not going into a historical discussion, but Roosevelt was so unfortunate to die during World War II, so I don't think he made it with the UN, but leave it alone. I would say that I can see that since Roosevelt there have not been any American presidents who have not been worried about Enhedslisten. Is that how I'm supposed to understand it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180126	Well, now Enhedslisten hasn't existed before 1989 and I was born in 1983. But I must say at least that the enthusiasm which Mr. Søren Espersen expressed in relation to Ronald Reagan, in no way is anything I share. After all, he had the rather awkward pleasure of being convicted of state terrorism, for example in relation to the Iran-Contra affair and mining in relation to Nicaragua. So there are a lot of things to be criticised, just as he destroyed the welfare system, that is, the little that was in the United States. But when I mentioned Roosevelt before, it was because it was there that he made some plans which, fortunately, were carried out and which were in stark contrast to the atrocities that Stalin had planned and the kind of colonial approach that Churchill, for example, had.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180222	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no more questions. Then we go to the next rapporteur, Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180234	Thank you. The Americans are our friends. This has been the case for a long time, especially since the end of the Second World War, when we, together with the Americans, have insisted on living in freedom, in democracy and with liberal freedoms as the cornerstones of open, free countries. There is no doubt that we are going through some rather hectic years on the foreign policy stage. Nor do I think I am the only one who sometimes wonders whether everything is going in the right direction at all, because enemies of open, free society are unfortunately easy to spot. To the east we see Russia. Just a decade ago, many believed that Russia would become the West's partner and thus help bring the former Cold War great power closer to the rest of us. Closer relations between the West and Russia should ensure lasting stability through increased international cooperation. But it wasn't supposed to be that way. The annexation of Crimea and Russia's self-understanding as regards a Russian sphere of interest between Russia and Europe makes it, to say the least, difficult. From some places in the Middle East, political Islamism is so dark that the dreams of Arab Spring are difficult to keep alive, and you hold Erdogan's Turkey up against the ideals of freedom that we insist on in the West, it is difficult to see many similarities. In that freedom, respect for both individuals and minorities and open democratic society. Fortunately, we are not the only ones to subscribe to those values. Our partners in the European Union do so, and they do so in the United States. The United States is often referred to as one of Denmark's closest allies, but the relationship between our two countries is even deeper than only common interests on the foreign policy stage. I believe that common fundamental values are the fundamentals of our mutual relationship. When The Founding Fathers issued the American Declaration of Independence on 4 July 1776 they formulated a number of principles which later became the foundation of the constitutions of many Western countries, including the Danish Constitution. The Declaration of Independence confirmed that we as human beings were born equal and that each has inviolable rights, including the right to life itself, to freedom and to seek happiness. A few years later, in the context of the French Revolution of 1789, the same principles were reiterated in the French Declaration of Human Rights. The two events have been decisive steps on the road to the modern enlightened idea of human innate rights. The seeds of liberal democracy, as we know it today, were thus added, and even though history has since the second half of the 18th century offered deviations from the democratic right-based course, it is the fundamental values that form the Danes' spiritual community with the Americans. As both the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister have pointed out, Denmark must, of course, follow the course of President Trump's administration and the barn, and there have been decisions and announcements which have given rise to a further sinking. The administration is still new and, instead of fearing the worst, we must hope for the best and, at the very least, arm ourselves with patience and calm in our stomachs. We must stand by our positions and recognise that we do not have to agree on everything, especially when we agree on the fundamentals. We have stood side by side with the Americans against the Nazis, against the Communists during the Cold War and now against the terrorist threat of the Islamists. The United States is an extremely important ally, which is why it is also good that today in the Folketing we have the opportunity to express our views on transatlantic cooperation. If it is to the Liberal Alliance, a continued strong cooperation for peace, for security, for freedom and for free trade is essential, and although statements, and especially tweets from the new US President, sometimes give rise to raised eyebrows, it does not change the fundamental and historically anchored community of values that we have with the Americans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180659	Thank you to the rapporteur. There's no questions, and the next one's Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323180714	We have repeatedly been taught that we should look at what Donald Trump does, not what he says. We should not look so much at what comes of hateful utterances from his Twitter profile, but look at what he does of politics. I mean, this is a fatal misunderstanding. For words have power, and words lead to actions, not least when it comes from the man who possesses what is probably the most powerful office in the world. From a number of quarters this already suggests that hate crimes in the United States have increased since Trump was elected president, and that is why we must both look at what he is doing and what he says. Alternative facts are something you'd actually think I liked. But it actually requires some brave and wise answers when it comes in the way it does from Trump. Of course, we should not turn our backs on our American friends, but we should not look passively when they turn their backs on our common values either. Good friends say no when the green line crosses, and that's why we have to say no to Trump. We must reject the man-chauvinist and highly right-wing populist tendencies, the hateful and divisive rhetoric and climate denial and attacks on science. We must say no when one of our allies, the so-called leader of the free world, is actively trying to divide Europe. Trump has praised Brexit for being a smart decision, he flirts with the anti-European forces on the extreme right who want to destabilise Europe. Real friends do not want to destabilise Europe. We need a strong and united Europe that addresses people on the run, security threats and climate challenges. We are in a fragile situation where we must stand together, not let ourselves be divided. Trump has so far fallen into the slipstream of e.g. Putin and Erdogan, who are actively working to divide Europe and weaken us. We shouldn't put up with that. Nor can we pretend that it is no problem that Trump and his team of fossil, white male climate deniers are not a challenge to limit climate change and their disastrous consequences for both present and, in particular, future generations. Trump plans to cut the U.S. Environment Agency by one third and has added a full-blooded climate denier to lead the Agency. It is a man who has spent most of his life suing the same agency because they have improved the environment and climate. Hundreds of millions of people are at risk of being driven on the run because of conflicts, water shortages and famine when the consequences of the lack of climate action really occur. We need to get every diplomatic channel going to push the United States not to backtrack on climate commitments and move even stronger with the other countries in the world. We must take greater responsibility for climate change in Denmark and Europe. This is necessary if we are to live up to our common green responsibility. We're not going into any middle field. We need to take the lead and target the green driver's shirt. Besides saying away from our friends, there is also a need to look inwards and see how far from Trump's values we really are. We can also recognise the divisive and hateful rhetoric in Europe and Denmark. Words lead to action, and I would therefore call for us to pack up the rhetoric we have seen at home, talk with respect and dignity to and about other people. In addition, I look forward to hearing how the government will respond to the challenges posed by the new US administration. I hope that we can agree not to stand idly by, but instead to work actively to point out a responsible, inclusive and green path for the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181055	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181109	In today's debate there has been a tone that has almost gone through all the speeches, namely a tone of patience, saying: let us now clap the horse and see what we are dealing with. It is a tone that I really agree with, because if there is something that we can say for sure, it is that we know very little about what we are really facing with the new American administration, and diplomacy is about something that needs to be armed with strategic patience and see what is really coming out of the many different opinions that different politicians may make when they are elected and in the days after they have been elected. I would also like to say here that, on the other hand, I believe that we should be careful not to underestimate the phenomenon we are facing here, in the form of the newly elected President and his closest adviser, Stephen Bannon, who has expressed it in such a way that his and the President's aim is to deconstruct the administrative state. Knowing the background of these gentlemen, not least Stephen Bannon, there is, after all, a common thread against what has been the aim of the political movement in the United States, namely to break down the state, to break down the international organisations that have been made up of states, to break down the international legal order which Denmark, if any country in the world, has tried to build up and contribute to in the past decades. When you look at what has happened, you can safely say that there have been more words than actual actions: the wall of Mexico has not been built; the many decrees on entry bans have been struck back by judges; the many reports on climate, free trade, etc. has not yet been expressed in anything quite concrete. But I do not think we should underestimate the stamina and ambition that at least parts of the new American administration have in these areas. I have a deep concern, especially when it comes to free trade, and I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister says that the government has some optimism towards TTIP in relation to the TTP from which Donald Trump has withdrawn. It is of course nice that he has not withdrawn from TTIP, but in addition, if I am to be honest, I find it hard to see that there is something to have the optimism in when I look at the statements from the G20 meeting and when I look at everything that has come. So we also have a situation in which, according to my information, the 4 000 officials that Donald Trump has to hire are not in place at all, an American Ministry of Foreign Affairs which is virtually not working because they do not have that layer at all, and there is a great deal that will depend on who Trumf and Bannon decide to put their hands on the 4 000 seats. It is an extraordinary situation that it is not being put in place. We have never seen this before in American history, and for this reason alone I do not think we should underestimate the situation, but prepare ourselves for the fact that we can therefore face up to completely unpredictable and unpredictable political patterns that we must mobilise in relation to. It's the same with the climate. One of the concerns of a climate giant such as myself is the announcement that climate research, not least NASA, will be eliminated and the United States withdrawn from international cooperation in this area, as well as the removal of climate finance, which is an extremely important part of the Paris Agreement. A number of people have already mentioned these measures, and this is actually something that has been done in relation to development aid, not least in relation to women's rights. So, on the one hand, let us arm ourselves with strategic patience, and it is wise to do so. On the other hand, let us also prepare ourselves for the fact that we can actually find ourselves in a situation where Denmark must have answers to its hand and have made strategies with its European allies in the areas that are important to us: free trade, climate, women's rights, etc. I think that is the dual strategy that we need to pursue, because I can also endorse what many others have said, namely that I also see the United States as our closest ally and as a cornerstone of Danish foreign policy. And, of course, I hope that the close ties that have ensured our security for many, many years will continue to exist. One might then ask oneself: why not make a more critical proposal for adoption when there is the concern that several people have expressed today? I think it is wise for a very broad majority in the Folketing to show that Denmark is united in this situation, and I think it is wise to make a proposal for adoption which shows, on the one hand, the strategic patience that is needed, and, on the other hand, clearly says that there is a concern here that we want to deal with. That is why the Radical Left can support the joint motion for a resolution, which seems to be supported by a majority in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181627	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181632	Thank you. It is, of course, a very fundamental difference, i.e. whether you should like to go to Trump with enormous patience and on footsteps and hope that the things he says and decides never come true. I think this is a wrong strategy and I have to say that I am afraid it will lead to a normalisation of what he is doing. If those who oppose the statements he makes in relation to women's rights, in relation to discrimination against religious minorities, in relation to climate, etc., just go on list feet, there is a danger that that view will simply be strengthened, normalised and that the world is going in the wrong direction. It can be said that if you choose to do what the Radical Left is doing, namely to table a motion for a resolution containing what it is doing, then you know that you cannot bring the whole parliament together. On the other hand, after all, there is something that is not being taken along, and I wonder, and it is this sexual reproductive rights of women that is a criticism of the entry ban. Why should it not be included?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181751	It could have been, and you could have made an even longer list. I acknowledge the fear of Enhedslisten as to whether it is spoken out loud enough, but I just want to say that the danger of the opposite, namely that one creates a self-fulfilling prophecy by speaking too loudly, is also present. I think populist politicians live on polarization. Popular politicians have one wish, and that is that you head-on against them on the statements they make and, therefore, sometimes you will be doing populist politicians a great service by acting very predictable and very loudly. I believe that Denmark, understood as Denmark, stands well by having this combination of strategic patience and, at the same time, a clear concern. I think that the reports from the platform today and there is little difference between being a party and being a country in this context have been very clear and incomprehensible, and I hardly need repeat that all the concerns that have been are also mine and my party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181858	I regret that I was interrupting the rapporteur, but that happens when the rapporteur takes a break and breathes. Now it's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen with the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181906	I think the disagreement is also about the approach to Trump. I think that, for a type like Trump, we need to say clearly what we think, and there we can say that we are choosing something that the majority wants to say clearly today: we are highlighting NATO cooperation, which is highlighted in relation to the transatlantic aspect of free trade. I just think it is a pity that other things are not included, not least women's rights and entry bans. But is it the view of the Radicals that this is something that the Prime Minister should mention next week when he meets with the President of the United States?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323181945-2	Absolutely, and I also have a clear expectation that the Prime Minister will make this clear, for the time that Denmark has taken the initiative in what I warmly support, to try to replace the funds that the United States has withdrawn from the programmes that strengthen women's right to their own body, the right to decide over their own body. After all, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has fairly clearly denounced the initiatives taken by the new administration with an entry ban. So it is not, if I may say so, taboos in Danish foreign policy, it is something that the Danish Government has already clearly indicated, so I would expect the Prime Minister to do so when he talks to President Trump, just as he hopes to take on board the other things that are stated in the resolution, both the desire to cooperate closely with the American administration and all the areas where there is a concern in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323182036	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF, as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323182056	There is talk of patience in relation to the new American president. I think there has been a lot of patience since the election campaign started in the United States. When he first showed up, you didn't really believe there was any chance that he could be elected. When he first made crazy statements, they said: Oh yes, this doesn't matter. That was both in the election campaign itself and also afterwards, where they have always said: No, we do not really believe in this, that is not possible, because if you are elected president, you will change, then you walk away from Twitter diplomacy and move on to being serious. But every time you've been disappointed, every time you've been denied. It turns out he meant what he said. It turns out he could win that election. It has turned out that he has hired the most insane people in his immediate inner circle, Steve Bannon and other completely insane people who sit there and advise him, and that is why I think it is rather too lenient just to say that we should be patient and then wait. I think that's a little irresponsible. What is really at stake here? That is, after all, the whole American attitude towards what we call the liberal world order, what we have known since World War II. That is basically what the new President of the United States is questioning, while at the same time in Russia there is a President who does the same, while in Europe there are a number of populist movements, including governments who do the same. That is to say, we are actually, in our opinion, in a very, very serious situation, and I think that we need to act in a slightly stronger way than what the majority is doing in the proposal for adoption that has been presented here today and in the approach that we have. Adoption cannot define a foreign policy, but it reflects an approach to this problem. So we actually believe that we need to have a slightly more critical approach to the President of the United States. Let me make a brief historical review back to 2001 when Anders Fogh Rasmussen became Prime Minister and actually carried out what I would call a paradigm change in Danish foreign policy. Where one had previously been very, very European-oriented, Anders Fogh Rasmussen came to, and with the Iraq war in particular he had a clear ambition that together with Britain we should be the most pro-American country in Europe. This is what Rumsfeld called the new Europe, unlike the majority of the countries of the rest of Europe, the EU, which Rumsfeld called the old Europe. It was, in fact, a new orientation that was never really discussed at the time, but which has meant that Denmark came to lie extremely close to the United States with virtually everything. This was especially true of Anders Fogh Rasmussen, and he also received a reward for it, so to speak, but still it was an extremely close approach to the United States. The question is whether it is still wise to have the approach that the question is whether we do not have to ask ourselves sometimes whether we cannot have any other interests than to be as close to the United States as we did then and as we do. Is it necessary for us to be the country of the European Union which, after Britain has resigned, is the country closest to Washington? Can there not sometimes be any need for a critical approach in which we do something other than what the United States wants, it cannot be in our interest perhaps to seek against some other allies than Washington, elsewhere to define its policy in? I think so. In particular, it applies to the European Union, the European line. I myself think it is a bit important to be more European, to spend more effort on the EU's being able to play a stronger role, because I fear that there will be a vacuum if the United States takes serious steps to withdraw from international cooperation and that it may then be China or other powers that come in instead. I believe that the European Union needs to go in and try to fill such a vacuum, and that is why we think it is important. On behalf of the SF, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament supports the work for a continued close transatlantic relationship based on the many interests and values shared. The Danish Parliament notes, however, that the newly elected President of the United States has made statements and views which must give rise to deep concern. This applies not least to his reports on the EU, NATO, free trade, climate change, the Middle East, US armaments, discrimination in immigration policy, abortion, etc. The Folketing urges the government to formulate a foreign policy with a strong EU perspective that has a broader aim than the close relationship with the United States. This means, among other things, that Denmark must V 55).
ParlaMint-DK_20170323182732	A proposal for adoption has now been tabled and will be part of the further work on the question. Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments, and it would appear that we have finished the rapporteur's series. We move on to the series of ministers, and the first minister to come up is the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323182757	Thank you for that, and thank you for a very good debate. I believe that a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supports the importance of our transatlantic cooperation, that it is important that we have good and trusting cooperation with the Americans. They are a cornerstone, they are the ones who have ensured that we have lived with peace and stability and growth for very, very many years, of course, not least after the Second World War, as has been mentioned several times. There has been a lot of discussion here about whether to have patience, and Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten said that we are setting up for such a kind of immense patience. I do not think that anyone has used such words at any time in the debate. There have actually been examples of us standing up and saying that this is the wrong way to go. It has been about women's rights and the entry ban decree, where we have lifted our voice and said that this seems wrong to us where we are actually acting and where it also looks as if something is happening, for example. in relation to the entry ban decree. Some have also said, and we often do, when we talk about the presidency of the United States that it is the most powerful office in the world. It may be that it is not very powerful at the end of the day. In other words, if one day we can conclude that the United States did not run out of NATO, that what some people had feared, huge agreements between the United States and Russia, and that many of those stories that we feared during the election campaign did not prove to be waterproof, then it could be that American democracy is in fact more than just a president, that there are checks and balances, that there is a Senate with 100 senators that you do not just run around, and also over 400 in the House representatives. In fact, when you talk to the Americans, the Republicans that I met during my stay in Washington, they say: it's just one man; that is, it's not that he just has full power for everything. If we now hold it against what we have heard afterwards, and that is also a reply to Mr. Holger K. Nielsen and what we have seen happen after Trump was appointed to the presidency, it is of course that it has been stressed that NATO is behind it, that it is not on the way to saying: we do not want to be involved anymore. It has been stressed that the policy of sanctions against Russia will be maintained because of the situation in Ukraine. It has just been stressed at the conference on ISIL in which I myself was about to take part that it is important that we stand together, that in the broad coalition of 68 countries we stand together to continue the fight against ISIL. Fortunately, in many ways, a great many things have been put out which point to the extension of transatlantic cooperation. Then there are places where we have still not seen what the concrete actions will consist of. This applies to free trade. That's not exactly where Enhedslisten usually backs up. In other words, we have just had the discussion on the EU-Canada agreement, where we others think it is really important to defend free trade and that this is what helps to create growth. Now let's see how that's gonna work out. Because in relation to the way we normally think and the way we view free trade on the European side, it will basically be to punish our own voters, that is, Trump's own constituents, if he starts to cut free trade and go the way of protectionism. We are currently discussing in the United States what should happen in relation to Obamacare. It was one of the things that needed to be settled. There is not a hundred per cent certainty that there will be a showdown at the end of the day, because the President is one man and there are many politicians in the United States. And it is not the case that everything has been replaced in the Senate and the House representatives with what has happened. So I think it is still a fair way of saying that we would also like to see what concrete actions are actually going to be following on from what Holger K. Nielsen said, namely that one thing is the words that have been said, but another is what the concrete actions are going to be. Of course, that must be judged. So I actually just think that I would like to end by saying that this has been a really, really good debate. I do not know whether this can be completely summed up in what the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Søren Espersen, said, but at least I thought it was a point, namely that although we do not all love him now and that is not necessarily the starting point of the European side, one must love it as one gets. This does not exclude the fact that, at the same time, we are looking towards strengthening cooperation with other parties. After all, this is what we do by the government in relation to the European Union, including by Brexit. I myself am going on an alliance trip around Europe the week after next week to look for opportunities to promote Denmark's interests via other European countries, i.e. other members of European cooperation. However, it is quite clear that when you go to meetings with the other European Foreign Ministers, there is such a feeling that, if things get out of hand, that is to say, if they get there, then it is quite obvious that a vacuum will arise and it will also provide an opportunity for the European Union to play a greater role in various areas. In Denmark, however, we are in a rather special situation where we have reservations about defence cooperation. But that's what it is. So all in all, thank you for a good and interesting debate, and so far there is at least nothing, I think that it is going to be as bad as some have feared.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183443	Thank you. There are a few comments. The first one's from sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183449	Thank you for that and also thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I agree that it has been a good debate which has clearly indicated that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament behind a strong transatlantic relationship, but also that we have some clear concerns about aspects of US policy. There was one thing in the Foreign Minister's reply that surprised me a little bit, and it is when the Foreign Minister says that when it comes to free trade, we have not seen anything concrete from the United States yet, so now we have to see what happens. When I am surprised, it is in the light of the meeting in Baden-Baden, where the American Finance Minister clearly prevented a decision, and that must be said to be a concrete action. So I just want to know whether it was a statement by the Foreign Minister or whether it is the position of the government that nothing concrete has happened in relation to free trade that is moving in the wrong direction from the American side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183548	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183549	No, of course I'll give you that. It should be understood in another way, as I also said in relation to TTIP, that I do not consider that case to be closed at this stage. It's off the table, and then it's on the table again, and then we'll see where it lands. It has to be understood that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183606	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183607	So on another subject, if you may say so. After all, the Foreign Minister himself raised the discussions both on women's rights and also on the entry ban as something that has caused concern from the Danish Government's point of view. That is something that has been said. Now I understood from the Minister for Foreign Affairs' first speech that he had had the opportunity to exchange words with the American Foreign Minister, Mr Tillerson, so I would just like to ask whether the Foreign Minister on that occasion raised the specific concerns of the Danish side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183645	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183646	No, I did not, because there was no actual meeting, that is, of the traditional half hour, which is the normal thing we have. You could say it was a meeting at the edge of a meeting. For my part, because the occasion was a meeting of the ISIL coalition, it was primarily a matter of stressing that Denmark is side by side with the Americans and the many other countries participating in that battle and also of stressing that we are contributing significantly to it. That was the subject of the day itself, and that is why I touched on it in my brief conversation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183727	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183730	Thank you. Well, then, I would just like to urge the Foreign Minister clearly to criticise the American approach to women's rights, entry bans, climate change when he next gets the opportunity, that is, when he did not do so when he last had the opportunity. In relation to the Foreign Minister's speech, it strikes me that it is actually quite thoughtful that there is a situation in which the Danish Foreign Minister stands on the floor of the Parliament and expresses concern that the US President gets his policy through. In other words, the Danish Foreign Minister hopes that the President of the United States will not get through with his policy. What I would like to hear from the Minister for Foreign Affairs is whether, in the situation as Danish Foreign Minister, that is the basis for some reflection. So, should it be the case that relations with the United States are the first priority in Danish foreign policy, just as it has been since 2001, in my clear opinion, when you have a situation where the Secretary of State is concerned that the US President gets his policy through? Or does it give rise to Danish policy turning back the time before 2001 and working for, for example, a strengthening of the UN?
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183855	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323183857	No, it gives rise to what I also emphasised in my speech, namely that we focus on having our contacts with the American system; to talk to the specific American politicians; to talk to the officials with whom we can talk; that our foreign ministry works; that our embassy works etc. I think it is perfectly fair and fair to say that I do not want more protectionism and that, to the extent that President Trump wants more protectionism, I do not hope that he will come through with his policy. We want to defend women's rights and, to the extent that policy measures are taken that restrict women's rights or make it harder for women to maintain their rights, we do not think that is the right way to go. When you work with decrees on entry bans, where we do not think that you meet the individual as an individual, but as part of a group, we take a position on it and do not hope to succeed in getting through with it. And to the extent that you're going through with it, we'll get started and try to get loosened up in relation to the way we did it, as well, and it also had some concrete effects. That's the way I think you should work with it. However, this does not lead to conclusions, and certainly not at this stage, that we should not maintain very close cooperation and also hope that transatlantic cooperation will continue to be at the heart of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184029	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184031	Thank you. When I ask, it is because by rewinding the time back to, for example, 2003 you will see that a majority here in Parliament is not Mr. Anders Samuelsen and not the undersigned voted to go to war in Iraq bypassing the UN and thus in violation of international law. It was, of course, a situation in which the majority of the Folketing had a view that it was enough just to stand next to the United States; one did not really need a clear international world order. When we find ourselves in a situation today, when Denmark's Foreign Minister expresses concern that the President of the United States will implement his policy, one could be led to believe that it might be an advantage for Denmark that there was a strong international world order and we should therefore try to steer the policy away, so that we not only stood next to the United States but more actively worked to strengthen, for example, the UN as an alternative to the previous line in at least a number of areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184131	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184133	It is Danish politics and that is what has been a broad and long-standing majority in favour of maintaining strong transatlantic cooperation in Parliament and also ensuring that the European Union is strong in those areas where it is important for the European Union to be strong. We need to use the tools we can, and this also applies to the United Nations. It is not the case that one excludes the other. It is important and it was also one of the points I made in my speech that the kind of cooperation that we have with the Americans is precisely that we can say something to each other and also criticise each other in relation to concrete actions. That is what characterizes the fact that we live in a Western and free world: that we can do it. We are doing the same, as I said in my speech, and we have done it quite specifically. We may also have been involved in influencing the fact that we have not ended up where we feared it in relation to specific American proposals. It is not the case that I say that they are reading everything we adopt here in the Danish Parliament or reading all the tweets from the Danish Foreign Minister. You don't have to put yourself that high. But I do believe that this will help to influence this in general, and if we combine it with the fact that we have a strong dialogue with not only the President, but with a large number of influential American people, politicians, then I think that is the right way to deal with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184255	We thank the Secretary of State. Then it is the Prime Minister who gets the last word, unless there are questions, and it is still the Prime Minister who gets the last word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184305	Thank you. I shall be brief, following on from the Minister for Foreign Affairs's reply. I too would like to thank you for a good, important one, and I would like to add to the nuanced debate, in which I am also pleased that it results in a very broad adoption. I think, in fact, that the consensus expressed in the resolution, when you listen to Mr Giscard d'Estaing too, might seem to me to be the same as that expressed in the motion for a resolution. Holger K. Nielsen's speech, in fact on many lines, goes wider. After all, the debate has confirmed two things: firstly, that we attach great importance to transatlantic cooperation, transatlantic relations, and secondly, that we must continue to defend Denmark's interests in the best and wisest way in the light of all the challenges we face in the coming years, when the main line of the debate has also been that, and I am also pleased that there are no easy answers to complicated questions. There is no such thing in Denmark. There is no such thing in Europe. Nor is there in the United States. I am convinced that Denmark and the European Union will continue to have a great deal of common interests with the United States in terms of how we deal with the major challenges in the world, but I can also see the nuances and share the views that Mr. Nicolai Wammen explained in his excellent rapporteur's speech, and indeed Mr. Martin Lidegaard's call for what he referred to as strategic patience, which should not be mistranslated to mean that we do not care. We are not indifferent, and we have shown this by concrete political action, among other things. the initiative led by the Minister for Development, both with nine colleagues, was right to address the High Representative of the European Union, but also, of course, the very determined initiative of trying to raise money, including a Danish grant, to fill the possible vacuum that comes in the wake of the new US President's ambition to remove funds that support women's right to live their own lives and decide over their own bodies. I do not think there is any contradiction between this strategic patience and the ambition to have a continued close alliance and then the third element, as Mr. Holger K. Nielsen said that we should work to ensure that in the circle of European countries we take on more responsibility for setting the agenda, which is also the Danish one. This applies, among other things, to: in relation to free trade. I am glad that what has been proposed in relation to the celebration of the Treaty of Rome here on Friday-Saturday in Rome, among other things. I am fully aware that at a time when there is a tendency, and this also includes the President of the United States, you look a little more inwards and put your own country first, so it is quite fine to put your own country first, as long as you do not turn your back on others, there is a need for those of us who believe in free trade, and that probably does not go entirely to the Enhedslisten, to pick up the glove, and the right place to do it is, among other things, the right place to do it. in an EU context. The Foreign Minister said that the global security situation, both in relation to Russia, migration and the fight against terrorism, underlines the need for cross-Atlantic cohesion, and that is absolutely right. We need strong transatlantic cooperation both inside and outside NATO, and the new American administration has not changed that in any way. I also think it is important to keep in mind that the United States is an important trading partner for Denmark and has become increasingly important. The United States is now Denmark's third largest export market, with a total Danish export of approx. 100 billion kr. and a trade surplus of something similar to half that amount. It means a lot to Danish economy. It means a lot to Danish consumers. It means a lot to Danish jobs. That is why we must seek close, fruitful relations. It is also my ambition to work for it and, of course, on the basis of the policy which is now being reworded, I would not say, because it brings forward opinions and views that have already materialised over the spring months. But it is a strong starting point to have, and I am also pleased to have that in relation to the opportunity I have now been given to meet in the Oval Room with the new US President next week. We will continue to work to defend Denmark's foreign and security policy interests in dialogue with the United States, and we will do our part to ensure that the transatlantic relationship will continue to ensure peace, stability and growth, and with this I would like to thank you for a good, nuanced and interesting debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184831	There are a few comments. The first one's from sir. Nicolai Villum... Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184840	Thank you. The question would probably be a little different from my name brother behind me here. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his kind remarks. Some of what we have talked about today is free trade, and also the meeting that took place in Baden-Baden, where the American Finance Minister blocked the adoption of sensible things. On this occasion, Finance Minister Kristian Jensen said: "It is very, very worrying for Denmark that the American administration has this view of free trade. This is what the Minister of Finance says, and he also says that if the situation does not develop in a positive direction, there may be a risk of a trade dispute between Europe and the United States. I would just like to know, for the sake of good order, whether the Prime Minister will make the words of the Minister of Finance his, i.e. that it is very, very worrying for Denmark that the American administration has this view of free trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184948	I should like to start by regretting that it was the President who was about to say Villumsen instead of Wammen. But now it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323184956	Thank you. One can also reverse the quotation and say that Denmark has a strong interest in promoting free trade. This means that all tendencies towards setbacks are not of good value, and any lack of progress in international free trade is not good either, that is to say, the basic point of view. That is why I am also concerned about the fact that the division of roles that we now have, Europe and the United States, is not making any clear progress in TTIP, and I have also taken it down with concern that the G20 summit failed to embrace this agenda. So I share the basic point of view. I believe that it is our job to set the agenda as strong as we can at all, in all relevant places. This is true in relation to our American friends in trying to convey the view that the world is getting richer and not poorer by trading. Denmark is a living proof of that. However, it is also, of course, a question of promoting that view elsewhere, and there is, of course, a very relevant framework for the European Union. That is, of course, the reason why the circle of European Heads of Government has sent out a signal, a summit after the recent summit, and probably and hopefully it will also be done in Rome this weekend, that we must accelerate the negotiations that are already under way, among other things. with Japan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185131	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185133	Thank you. I see the answer as supporting the Finance Minister's quote, and I think that is fine, because it is an important matter to get the communication to our American friends. I also heard the Prime Minister say that when it comes to free trade, it is a question of 'and it is freely quoted' to put this agenda to the people you meet in all relevant places. Now it is a very relevant gentleman that the Prime Minister will meet next week. I believe very quickly that the statements made by Donald Trump over the past many months will enable us to make a long list of butter loafs of what one might have of concern that one could travel to the President. I would not ask the Prime Minister to do so, but simply say that today we have a decision that relates in particular to free trade and climate change. I would just like to ask whether the two things that a broad majority in this Parliament will adopt are something that we attach particular importance to, are concerns that the Prime Minister will raise with the American President when they meet next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185242	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185243	Thank you. I'd like to sign for the fact that Mr. Nicolai Wammen proposes that I should have some room for manoeuvre in the design of my dialogue with the President of the United States next week, in many ways I think that is preferable, and that we should avoid a situation where we have to go through a long, long butter bread slip and that, unless we can put a dent in all the criticisms, it has not been a constructive meeting. For that is actually, to put it now in Jutland, not so bad even that we have had an opportunity to have this meeting next week in a situation where only three European leaders have so far visited the White House. And I should not hide the fact that I see it as a main task at that meeting to get some knowledge and insight into what Denmark is for a country, also in relation to some relevant discussions that are currently going on, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to congratulate him on the work he has done in this field. And that is, of course, a positive way of getting into that debate with the American President.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185359	Thank you. Then it is the last questioner who will ask questions to the Prime Minister, and that is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185406	Thank you, Mr President. This is not the first time that Villumsen and Wammen have been confused, but if you listen to the political content, you will hear that it can vary quite a lot; then you will probably be aware of the difference. When I'm on the list of questions here today, it's to ask the Prime Minister a question about the next meeting next week. Specifically, I would just like to hear from the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister will try to bring this issue of women's rights up to his meeting with President Trump of the United States.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185448	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185449	Thank you. Next week's meeting has finally been confirmed by the White House today, and it is then being planned. I have to say quite openly that, bearing in mind the time that will be available, I cannot stand here and commit myself to a specific agenda. I can say that I want to be completely loyal to what is my own policy, which fortunately is also a policy based on a broad majority in the Folketing, and disseminate that policy in the best possible way in the situation. I have to answer that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185526	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185528	Thank you. It is quite true that the proposal for adoption, which will achieve a majority, does not exactly have any concern or criticism of the position of the American President in relation to women's rights. However, from a large number of parties, both from the Enhedslisten, but also from the Social Democratic Party and the Radicals, there has been a call today during the debate to include it, so I would just urge the Prime Minister to consider whether that concern may not be taken into account at the meeting of the White House.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185601	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185602	I certainly did not answer the question in such a way that one can interpret that I am not considering doing so, nor do I recognise that the government's full policy can be read out by this proposal for adoption. It says, as sir. Nicolai Wammen also pointed it out, among others. So, the Danish Minister for Development was among the promoters of a concrete project that was about raising money. There is a specific grant from Denmark in relation to that question, Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen highlights. The Danish Foreign Minister, together with nine colleagues, has written directly to the High Representative of the European Union in connection with this particular case. That's why we share the government and Enhedslisten on this point policy. My answer was that it is my ambition, with the time available to me during the meeting with the President of the United States, to convey as much of the government and in this case it is therefore with the support of Parliament's policy as possible. And I think it would be inappropriate for it to be based on the honorable member of the Assembly of Enhedslisten or the secretariat behind it to draw up my speeches.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185717	Thank you, Prime Minister. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Tuesday 28 March 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170323185749	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday, 24 March 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
