ParlaMint-DK_20170614130034	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have been informed that the responsibility for tasks relating to the State Museum of Art and the Danish Film Institute is transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 30 May 2017 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user management, information security tasks relating to senior data centres, contracts and supply management tasks relating to outsourced IT operations relating to the Statens Museum of Art and the Danish Film Institute is transferred from the Minister of Culture to the Minister of Public Innovation per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen
ParlaMint-DK_20170614130118	The only item on the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614130124	As you know, the vote must be taken by Members standing up at my request. I would like to ask Benny Engelbrecht and Erling Bonnesen to conduct the count. The vote may then be taken on consent. Members voting for consent are asked to stand up. Thank you. Then those Members who vote against consent have to stand up and I remain standing, but that doesn't matter. Thank you. Looks like we talked. Then you can sit back down. Members who are abstaining shall stand up. Thank you. Then the tellers have the numbers. In favour, 78 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Consent is granted. 3, specified manner).
ParlaMint-DK_20170614130455	Does anyone wish to speak? Here you go, sir. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614130520	Thank you. I am speaking here today because, following on from the debate at first reading, there are some ambiguities in relation to the arguments put forward by certain parties regarding the draft law being discussed today. The Prime Minister said during the closing debate on 31 May, in connection with an exchange of words with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, that it is not just any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand, which in principle risks 14 days of unconditional imprisonment, but that it is targeted at what can be called insecure begging. It is actually wrong when we look at the legislative proposal we are discussing today. The paragraphs that are being amended in this bill are all about ordinary begging... just plain begging... no matter what passport you have. The proposal can therefore also hit any Danish citizen who begs. Moreover, there is nothing in the law called insecurity-building begging. It's the government's misleading title for the bill and nothing else. The question remains, therefore, as to how the Prime Minister of the Danish Parliament's platform can interpret a legislative proposal that is factually wrong and in direct contradiction with what the country's Minister of Justice says two days later. I'll get back to that. If we come back to the final debate on 31 May, Mrs Mette Frederiksen replied to the Prime Minister in the exchange of I have been against a change of law which would mean that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin in order to buy a cup of coffee would be criminalised. If we can avoid that, of course, there is support on our part. I am therefore very surprised that the Social Democratic Party can support this bill, because it cannot be avoided. This is clear from the draft law. I also asked the Minister for Justice at first reading on 2 June, i.e. 2 days after the closing debate, whether this proposal would hit a Danish homeless person who would reach out to the cup or hand, and to that the Minister for Justice replied: "This affects everyone, the law is the same for all...' Mrs Zenia Stampe also took the floor during the debate and read Mrs Mette Frederiksen's quote, which I have also just read out, and then asked Mrs Zenia Stampe: 'Can you avoid it with the proposal that is before us?' "And the Minister of Justice replied with a single word, consisting of three letters: "No," replied the Minister of Justice. When you read the Social Democrats' contribution to the report, you do not really get any more cleverer. Here the Social Democratic Party writes that it is important for the Social Democratic Party that the purpose of the bill is not to hit the Hus Forbi salesman or the old hobo. But the proposal does. How, then, can the Social Democrats vote in favour of this proposal when it is clearly stated in terms of content that we are opposed to it? That doesn't make any sense. The question is: is the Social Democracy for a proposal that means that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee will be criminalised yes or no? If so, what prompted the Social Democrats to change their position from 31 May to 2 June, and why will the Social Democrats vote in favour today? One can even read from the contribution of the report that the Social Democrats will vote for a further tightening of the legislative proposal, in the sense that the tightening must now also apply if you are begging in front of a supermarket and not just in a pedestrian street, in public transport or at a station. Why is it important what the Social Democratic Party thinks in this matter? Yes, it is because if the Social Democrats did not support this proposal, there would be a majority against it in the opposition, and then it would be possible to roll it back after a forthcoming election, when another majority came to power. Moreover, it is quite absurd that begging now with this bill will be equated with certain forms of violence. We believe in the Enhedslisten that begging should not actually be prohibited at all. In our view, this is not worthy of punishment, but it would now be just as criminal with this proposal to beg in Denmark as to beg in certain forms of violence. It's grotesque, and there's no sense of proportionality in this bill. After all, the bill has come up in connection with a debate on foreign homeless people in this country. The bill does not deal with foreign homeless people. The bill deals with begging, plain begging, but it is obvious that there are a lot of challenges and there are a lot of issues that we need to address in connection with foreign homeless people coming to our country, living on the street and begging. That was also something we discussed at length at first reading. There's been a whole series of consultation responses that problematize that you choose to make this punishment sharpening. It is said that it will have no effect, for the reason that, among other things, it will have no effect. are Roma in Denmark, is that they are very much discriminated against in the countries they come from, among other things. Romania and Bulgaria. They feel less bad in Denmark. We have presented a wide range of proposals and ideas on how to work with Enhedslisten. Some of the measures that could be taken, which were also mentioned at first reading, are, of course, among others. working together across NGOs and with municipal services, so that problems are solved and not pushed forward, strengthened cooperation between municipal authorities and the foreign homeless, although cleaning up, better access to public toilets, and that you look at the problems of the individual homeless, as the problems of the foreign homeless vary in the same way as those of the Danish homeless. Not least, we need to create so-called transit spaces, which are part of a voluntary offer for foreign homeless people, which we want to introduce much wider for these homeless people who live on the streets and who have come to Denmark to find work. If you talk to the organizations working with the foreign homeless who live on the streets, you find that the vast majority of people have come here to seek work. Then they often end up because it is difficult to find a job in Denmark, in an even more vulnerable position than the one they came from. They need to come home, get help to move on in their lives, and that's what they want, because there is no perspective in living on the streets of Denmark. So a transit room where you give people advice and guidance, a bed to sleep in, a bath and help to move on in your life and home to the country where you are a citizen will be something that will be able to help in the real world. However, a majority today would apparently rather make symbol politics than do what works. I think the police have enough to do these days. And instead of the police now having to spend time arresting people and having them sentenced to 14 days in prison because they are sticking the cup or hand rather than earning a coin to buy a cup of coffee, I think we should use the police's resources to actually fight the crime that exists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131318	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131322	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask Mr. Rune Lund, about Enhedslisten has some other plans besides of course ensuring better access to public toilets, which in some cases may well be excellent which actually has an effect. For example, does Enhedslisten believe that we need to expel foreigners who are unable to support themselves, or does Enhedslisten believe that it is Denmark's job to support foreigners who do not want to travel? If they choose to be here in Denmark and we can't persuade them to travel, for example in connection with these transit rooms, does Enhedslisten believe that they should be forced out of Denmark when they can't support themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131355	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131356	The rules today are actually very clear. You have to come to this country to look for a job, and you have to be able to support yourself. You have 3 months to look for a job. Nor is it allowed to set up camps, nor is it allowed to harass people. Theft is not permitted. There is a long set of rules dealing with the issues we are dealing with, among other things. also discussed in depth at first reading. I think it'd be nice if Mr. Keen... Martin Henriksen actually dealt with the bill we are discussing now, which is about begging, and that Mr. Martin Henriksen among others. It is true that this bill affects all homeless people, including Danish homeless people. It is, in fact, more important, I think, when we talk about a specific legislative proposal. Then we can talk about all sorts of other relevant issues, including foreign homeless people, but this proposal is essentially about tightening the penalty for begging, which will also affect Danish homeless people, and in relation to that I think we lack some answers from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131456	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131457	But we had that debate at first reading, and that is where I replied to the questions that Mr. Rune Lund came along, and as Mr. Rune Lund left. I think it is a relevant issue how to ensure that foreign homeless people and not Danish homeless people are more affected. So it is true that this bill applies all around. In other words, we have already had confirmation of this. Sir. Rune Lund says that there are already rules which guarantee expulsion. That is not correct. There are many of them running around on the streets and streets that are not being deported, although it is quite obvious to everyone that they are not able to support themselves. The Danish People's Party is tabling an amendment at second reading which, if adopted, will mean that if you are convicted of begging and are a foreign national, you will be expelled. So I urge Enhedslisten, if Enhedslisten believes that people who are unable to support themselves should not be in Denmark, to vote in favour of the Danish People's Party's amendment. And I also call on the rest of the Danish Parliament to do so if one believes that Roma who come here can also be others with Roma backgrounds or other EU citizens who are unable to support themselves must be expelled. The Enhedslisten should, of course, do so if Mr. Rune Lund believes that they should actually be deported if they cannot support themselves, because then it will be incorporated into the bill and then we can adopt it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131604	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131606	That's not gonna happen, I can tell you. Basically, we do not believe that begging should be banned, and then it is also problematic to expel people on the basis of something that we do not believe should be prohibited. Then there is the whole question of how to define self-support. After all, we have some rules today that we think are adequately dealing with the problem, that is to say that we must be able to support ourselves. In this context, I think it is important to say that because you are begging, it is not the way to live a dignified life in Denmark, for example. We do not think that we should start making proposals which further tighten this proposal and further criminalise begging when we basically do not believe that begging should be prohibited.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131658	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131702	Thank you for the floor. I think the rapporteur has a very, very far-reaching approach to this. We hear from relief agencies, police, authorities and municipalities that it is a growing problem with foreign homeless people who come here, and then we can read in the media how they use church areas as toilets, that they blackmail money from Danish homeless people, that they camp where it is not legal. The rapporteur's only proposal is that we should help them while they are here, but then there will only be more and more. What we are doing here is not symbolic policy, as the rapporteur says. We are building on some of the new measures that we gave the police the opportunity to take earlier this year. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. was made possible by the police to clear these Roma camps. Since the new rules came into force, the police have been charging well over a hundred, and they have also expelled a number of them, and they have cleared a large number of camps. How can the rapporteur stand and say that this is symbolic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131803	About that, sir. Marcus Knuth says about the extent to which this problem has grown, I have to say: yes, it is true that it is not a new problem and it has also grown a little, but not violently. This is an old issue that has existed for several years. In view of the fact that we are in the real world, I have to say that I have noticed that Mr. Marcus Knuth was on the Deadline Saturday night, where he made some pretty interesting statements, among others. About the size of the Roma. Sir. Marcus Knuth said, among other things: on Roma: They are the ones who typically call Roma because they are criminal homeless people coming from Romania. I mean, the term Roma is about ethnicity and not citizenship. If we can get the concepts straight, it may be that we can land a little more in reality. Sir. Marcus Knuth also said: Roma • Most of them come from Romania. It's wrong. Indeed, in Europe, the majority of Roma live in Spain, and if we look at the percentage of Roma population, we can see that the majority actually live in Bulgaria. I just think, sir. Marcus Knuth is very much contributing to this debate being very muddled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131913	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614131915	It has taken quite a lot out of a wider context. I made it very, very clear in that debate and in a number of other debates that there are very many who come here from Romania, for example. I also work in agriculture at Lolland, where I come from and make a contribution. And I made it very, very clear that the problem we have is with criminal homeless people coming here from abroad and not with a population group. I have even said in the Chamber that we have no problem with Roma, but that we have a problem with those who come here and who are criminals, primarily from Romania. Romania is once again the country where the vast majority of those charged come from; you only need to follow the news to see it. All those I have heard spoken of in the media and who have been charged have been Romanians; there is little to doubt about there. Now the rapporteur has made a lot of fine proposals for free toilets and beds, but what exactly will the rapporteur do against criminal homeless people living in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132013	Thank you. As usual, we must try to keep to our speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132017	Again, sir, he's messing with me. Marcus Knuth around in everything. In other words, we must treat criminals as criminals, crime as crime, social problems as social problems and practical problems as practical problems. And if you mess it all around in a light bulb and, like, give the impression that Roma, as Mr. Marcus Knuth should be the same as Romanians, all in some way homeless and criminals at the same time, then we have a problem in discussing what reality actually looks like, but we also have a problem in relation to how we talk about a minority group that is very vulnerable in our society and, incidentally, in the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132058	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nase Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132101	Let me remind you of the background to these initiatives. It is, in fact, a letter sent to the government by the Mayor of Copenhagen and the Social Mayor of Copenhagen, pointing out that the problem is greater than ever and that something needs to be done about it. The government is blamed for its passiveness in relation to the problems posed by travelling foreigners, especially in Copenhagen. Is Copenhagen's mayor completely mad at it? Is he wrong when he points to the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132134	Here you go, rapporteur, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132136	There is obviously a problem, but it is not a new problem. There is an increase in the number of foreign homeless people in Copenhagen, a slight increase. But the problem is in fact the same as it has been for several years, and it also makes it ridiculous that in this way we should have an urgent procedure for a legislative proposal which, moreover, deals with begging. At the first reading of the bill, I also noted that Mr. Nas Khader didn't relate to the content of the bill at all, but he wanted to talk about everything else that this bill doesn't mean. This bill is about criminalizing ordinary begging and throwing people 14 days in jail if they sit in front of a station and stick the cup instead of asking for a fiver for a cup of hot coffee. I find that unproportional and deeply problematic. This is not about many of the other issues that the government wants to raise in this debate. But if we're gonna talk about what this bill is actually about, it's about begging and only begging, plain begging, and I'd like that to be Mr. Simpson. Nase Khader relied on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132245	Thank you, sir. Nase Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132246	Well, let me remind you that begging today is illegal. It's nothing new. What we do is that we sharpen the penalty, that we remove the warnings, especially when you beg in a way that makes people uncomfortable, and there are many examples of this. But I did not get an answer as to whether the Mayor of Copenhagen is wrong. Doesn't the mayor know what's going on in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132315	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132316	So it is a fact, according to the people who work with the socially vulnerable and the foreign homeless on the street, that the problem is increasing but slightly increasing. It's a fact if you ask them, and I relate to that. What a Social Democrat in the City of Copenhagen saw otherwise had to think • Fortunately, the Enhedslisten is also strongly represented in Copenhagen with 20%. We have to let the Social Democrats respond to the same thing as the votes. Then I'd like to come back to that business of insecurity. There's nowhere in this bill that says something is supposed to be insecure. It is about the provisions of the legislation which deal with ordinary begging and the way in which this bill is referred to, as if it were a special form of begging, which is insecure, is simply wrong. It's misleading, it's wrong. This is about generally innocent begging, which, according to Enhedslisten, should not be illegal at all, but as unfortunately it is today. And now the penalty is being tightened up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132403	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to make brief comments? Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132410	Thank you. What are we going to do in Denmark about travelling criminals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132423	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132425	If people commit crime when they're in Denmark and they don't have a home here, they obviously have to be deported according to the rules in force.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132437	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132438	Thank you. When I ask the question a little staccato-like and perhaps a bit like a parody, it is because the many and the long questions seem to have confused the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who talks about everything else. Well, excuse me, we have to give free beds, and we're talking about something completely different. But what are we gonna do about these people? Well, it's not crime, and it's a social problem, some say. But a majority in here thinks it's crime, so that's it. If sir... Rune Lund doesn't think it's criminal to drive too fast either, so I have to say it is anyway. What are we gonna do about these people? What should we do to create security among ordinary people? Because this is, no matter what, sir. Rune Lund has fine feelings about the comments to the bill, insecurity-enhancing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132526	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132527	That I should stand here and talk around maybe I think that's quite a conspiracy. Because I'm actually trying desperately to talk about what this bill is actually about, and it's about plain begging, where poor people are sitting on the street asking for money. It's a crime today. If I sit down in front of the metro station at Christianshavns Square and reach out this cup instead of asking for a fiver for a cup of coffee, then I can look forward to 14 days in the hum, and it will be the tightening up of this bill. I think that is quite wrong. I think it is wrong that it should at all be illegal to do so, and this is so a tightening-up. But I have to say that I am desperately trying to get this debate to be about what the draft law is actually about: a completely unproportional approach to begging, where begging is now being equated with certain forms of violence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132615	Thank you. I should like to know if there are any more brief comments to Mr Seligman. Rune Lund. There isn't. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party, as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614132633	Thank you. I would just like to follow up briefly on what Mr. Rune Lund mentioned what this bill is about. Because it doesn't sound like we're in agreement here in the Folketing. The bill is about the fact that by begging you are now 14 days in prison without warning. Whether you are Danish homeless or not, because you have lost your home because of mental problems and have ended up on the street • for the examples we see • then you must 14 days in prison without exception. That's all it's about. You could have tightened the bill in a different way. The lawyers of the Ministry of Justice know that a certain group of beggars cannot be criminalised, so all beggars are criminalised. It's been made crystal clear. Despite the extremely short consultation period, we have received some very good consultation answers from a number of organisations who know more about this than all of us in here. SAND, the Homeless Association, the Council of Social Affairs, the Judicial Union, the Crime Prevention Council and the Institute of Human Rights all reject the proposal. Several of them say that there is a problem, but this does not solve it; it is the wrong approach and you criminalise poverty. The Christmas book of the year, which I know many of you in here have contributed to the fact that all parties are represented, is a very good initiative, because the profits always go to a very good cause, and this year at Christmas it went to the homeless. It was a great celebration that now the profits of this book had to go to them. I simply cannot understand why a number of parties, who repeatedly argue the case of the homeless and say that it is sad that we have homelessness in Denmark, are now going to throw homeless beggars into prison for 14 days without exception. That's what this bill is about. The fact that this is a symbolic bill also appears in the Prime Minister's own letter to all of us, because it says that it is a matter of urgency that it should be dealt with first now, but that it does not matter whether it is dealt with thirdly on the other side of the summer holiday. It is usually the case that when there is an urgent procedure, it is because something urgent has to happen that emergency aid has to be sent, that you have to send fighters, whatever it may be. That's what we're using emergency treatments for. And of the fact that the Prime Minister of the country then writes that this is an urgent matter and that it must be dealt with first, but that it does not matter when the third is dealt with, one can see that it is precisely in order to take advantage of the final debate on this matter. There are, of course, some things we have to do and can do. We have an order order, so does the country's Minister of Justice, and it can always be put into effect if what we call insecure things are going on on the streets if you look up camps, if you do not comply with the rules in the order order at all. It still exists away. We can also look at what the Mayor of Copenhagen is actually proposing, namely to look at the Residence Directive and say: do we, as a country, have to take the lead in that discussion in Europe to look at what the rules need to be in order to get a stay in Denmark and in other countries? There are a large number of measures, as Mr. Rune Lund mentioned, in relation to securing those who are actually poor. How can we secure them? How can we help them home? But when you say that all poor beggars in Denmark are criminals, you use the interpretation that all begging is criminal. But many of you have spoken of it as if begging alone is criminal, and that in a harsher sense one is a criminal simply because one is begging. And that's what's going on with this bill, so now you're a criminal. There's no excuse. You're going to jail for two weeks alone to sit with the cup in your hand. I think it's a really, really sad day. I think that in Europe, in the world, it shows a Denmark which instead of helping the homeless, helping beggars, throwing them into prison. I think it's incredibly inconvenient. But that is not to say that there is no problem with people living in camps, people harassing other homeless people. You could have spent time solving that problem properly. I think it's shameful. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133127	It's sir. Marcus Knuth asking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133131	Thank you. I do not understand why the rapporteur is saying that this is about criminalising the homeless. That's not what it does. This is about dealing with crime. The rapporteur says that this is all about begging. Now I do not know whether the rapporteur has read the comments on the draft law, but it says that some of the people who are in the insecure camps are living, among other things. In the case of bottle-gathering and begging, and it is therefore proposed that action should also be taken against insecure begging. This is part of a larger picture where you, among other things. has to do with people, as in some cases blackmails the Danish homeless. Isn't the problem here that we have to solve crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133208	I'm sorry, sir. Marcus Knuth thinks it's extremely insecure that some people collect bottles or that some people beg. In fact, I do not think that is what the rapporteur is talking about. But that's what this bill covers. And I am not finished if the rapporteur thinks it is so insecure to collect bottles alone, to be so poor that you beg, then it is in our power that a majority in the Folketing can say that it is criminal, so alone to be so poor, that you can only support yourself by collecting bottles. That is what we are talking about here. Because we have an order order. We have legislation that takes action against what you call insecurity-building activities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133256	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133257	The rapporteur makes it sound like we are making legislation that will hit Danish homeless people who live by the law. That is not the case. We want to protect the Danish homeless, as among others. is being blackmailed by some of these criminal foreign homeless people. That's what this bill is about. It's about solving a de facto problem where begging and these camps, etc. is part of the same picture. And then you can't just cut one out. So what exactly will the rapporteur do to deal with the problem of some of these criminals who are homeless abroad, such as: Is money blackmailed by Danish homeless people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133333	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133335	Well, that's not true, sir. Marcus Knuth says. Sir. Marcus Knuth says we have to protect Danish homeless people, but this bill throws Danish homeless people who are begging into prison without exception for 14 days. That's the consequence of this bill. That is why it is infinitely hypocritical to say that this is to protect the Danish homeless. I would like to help where the Danish homeless or other homeless are being blackmailed; where things happen; where there is violence, etc. That's just not what this bill is about. That is also why SAND, the Council of Social Affairs Ministers and all the other organisations say that this is the wrong way to go. They're the ones who know the most about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133415	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen with comments or questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133425	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to hear what the Socialist People's Party will do to solve these problems. One thing is that we can all do this, but I think that there is little missing from what is a little solution-oriented. So what does the Socialist People's Party suggest that we can do in relation to people who come, other EU citizens who create insecurity for Danish homeless, for ordinary peaceful citizens in Denmark and who are obviously unable to support themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133452	Now it's not all foreign homeless and beggars. I think there is an extreme degree of generalisation in this debate. But there are some, that's right. That is also why I said that I actually think we should look at the Residence Directive. I think we agree on that part. What does it take for you to be legally resident in another country? When are you actively looking for work? It could be an address or other thing. In addition, I also believe that the way in which the Danish police are under pressure is extreme, and the Danish People's Party and the SF do not see the same thing about what we can do to ensure that there are enough police in the streets to ensure the security that citizens also demand. When you decide to station a sea of Danish police officers at the border, there is no resources to be present locally, to intervene where there are problems, where there is violence and where there are some homeless people who are bothering other homeless people. And DF also knows that this is a zero-sum game, at least until a few years from now, where we hopefully have more cops.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133603	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133605	Thank you. It is fine to look at the Residence Directive, and we can also stand here and look at each other, but it is not certain that so much will come of it. In other words, what will be specifically amended in the Residence Directive? Is there any suggestion from the Socialist People's Party? It is fine for the Socialist People's Party to say that more police are now needed on the streets. We have not felt much of this on the part of the Danish People's Party when we have asked several times for resources to be allocated to train more policemen, and then it is shown about 2-3 per cent. of the police force that is on the border, so it cannot be quite flagrantly, and the Home Guard also comes in and relieves itself. In other words, there is no solution in what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen brings here. For example, will the SF support that it should be easier to expel people who are unable to support themselves? Then we can show them out, and at least we've come this far. Will it be supported by the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133647	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133648	I have presented some of the things we think should be looked at in relation to the Residence Directive. It could, for example, be done. be an address. It is a discussion that will take a long time and the European countries must agree on it. So it's not a here and now solution. One solution here and now is to say that the Danish police are using their tasks on a lot of wrong things, and they actually also have a number of suggestions on how to anticipate some of these things, and the citizens feel an insecurity. Because they want the police to be locally present, whether it's at Nørrebro, it's in Aalborg or it's in Søndervig. That is what the citizens want, and I think we actually agree on that. We just don't agree on the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133731	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Trine Bramsen who asks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133734	Thank you. The rapporteur says from the platform that with this proposal we are now making it criminal to beg. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that since 1890 we have had a law against trust in Denmark, and I would also like the rapporteur to confirm that the Hus Forbi seller is not covered by this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133756	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133758	Mrs. Trine Bramsen must have heard wrong. I said that the consequence of this bill is that, without exception, without excuse, as it is today, people are sent 14 days in prison. What I said was that the Church's Cross Army, on which we have all received an e-mail about it, Mrs Trine Bramsen, in any case as rapporteur, warns strongly against this, and the Council for Social Affairs, the Crime Prevention Council, the SAND, the association of homeless people, says that instead of criminalising poverty and begging, we should use some other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133832	Thank you. Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133833	But the proposal is, of course, with exceptions. Because what we are doing with the proposal here is, after all, tightening up the legislation on certain locations. This means, of course, that outside these locations there is an exception to the austerity we are doing today. So is the rapporteur quite sure that she has read the proposal correctly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133852	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133853	I think a remark should then be added to the bill: Dear Danish homeless people who will be begging if you do not want to go to jail, then you must sell House Past. I hope that the rapporteur himself will be able to hear how absurd it is, that is to say that as a Danish homeless person you have to stand with a newspaper in your hand in order not to be affected by this. And you're not begging if you're selling House past, but then you're selling something. But there are Danish homeless people who will be included in this, and I have to say that I find it incredibly embarrassing that the Social Democrats can agree to this. I hope, with Mrs Trine Bramsen's remarks, that the first Danish homeless person who has done nothing that bothers no one but just to be present with her poverty and begging and who goes to prison will roll this back. I'll take that as a guarantee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614133944	Thank you. Is there anyone else who would like to speak on a brief note? Otherwise, it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134008	It has been mentioned before today that we cannot punish ourselves out of poverty. And foreign homeless people, like Danish homeless people and other socially vulnerable people, must meet with empathy and respect. They have the right to a life of dignity and rights. That is why, in the alternative, we are very much opposed to the government's proposal, which is more about punishing rather than helping. In my view, the bill is heartless symbolic policy that hits marginalised people hard and does not address the problems of homeless people on the streets at all. In fact, it is pointed out in several consultation answers that this draft law does not provide a solution to the specific problems at all. SAND, the country organization of the homeless, recognises that there are problems on the street, for example. They do not believe that the proposal will remedy the general problem. I quote: We do not believe that it will remedy the problem locally either. On the contrary, we believe that it will create even greater problems for foreign homeless people who are already hard pressed, thereby increasing the level of conflict at street level. We see this in the alternative as a major problem. The bill will increase the level of conflict at street level. Is that what the government and several parties want? The alternative therefore sees a need for completely different solutions to the challenge of the foreign homeless. Instead of punishing people for being poor, as has been mentioned before here today, punishing them for being poor and desperate, we want to provide them with the best possible help and support. Because if we help them, we will also respond to the challenges. That is why we have proposed several measures focusing on social efforts and on a longer-term political solution. We propose, for example: Firstly, to strengthen the social work that we already know is working. The City of Copenhagen is responsible for a transit programme, which includes: provide help to the homeless who wish to return voluntarily to their homeland. Chief Mayor Frank Jensen and Social Mayor Jesper Christensen have previously asked for help on this, and we support that. Secondly, it is a good idea to set up a shelter for foreign homeless people, which I think was mentioned earlier by Enhedslisten's rapporteur. It is a kind of transit house, and we propose that the funds for the government's bill be used to extend the social effort and to create a real homeless shelter or transit house for foreign homeless people in Copenhagen. Instead of putting the homeless migrants in prison, we must give them a safe place to stay while they receive help from the community's social efforts in the transit programme. With the transit house there must be beds that can be used by all foreign homeless people. Here they can be stabilised and assisted with the mental as well as physical needs that they often have. This is necessary if they are to be able to return to their home country successfully or, in some cases, to be integrated into the housing and job market. We would much rather that the funds were spent on active social action rather than punishing people in the country's prisons and punishing them for being poor. The challenges of foreign homeless people require ambitious social action with advice, medical care, accommodation, support for voluntary return. Today, begging is illegal under criminal law. We propose, like the Institute for Human Rights, to decriminalise begging and only prosecute such acts when, in the specific situation, it leads to a violation of the order. It is also fully in line with the UN's guiding principles of extreme poverty and human rights. As the SF rapporteur mentioned, we believe that it is absolutely crucial that the root of the problem is also addressed by working towards a common EU solution. This involves amending the Residence Directive so that it is expected that EU citizens have an address in the country in which they visit or seek work. However, the revision of the Residence Directive should not be left alone. We also want the European Union to have a social dimension. This requires, among other things, that Denmark engages in the EU's social work and actively works at EU level to eradicate the repression and exclusion of Roma in their countries of origin. From a pan-European point of view, we should work more decisively to address the social problems that create the challenges of migrants' countries of origin. In this context, I would like to quote Amnesty International's letter and statement on this bill. They write, among other things.: When Roma from among others. Romania can find it attractive at all to go to Denmark and get through by spending the night in open skies in parks and under viaducts and feeding itself by begging and collecting bottles, because Roma in Romania and Slovakia, Slovenia, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic are subjected to massive repression and discrimination, which includes virtually all social conditions, and lead to poverty, which is hardly seen anywhere else in Europe. It goes without saying that it is quite unreasonable that Roma cannot have the opportunity to live a dignified life in their home country because they are oppressed and, at the same time, they cannot seek opportunities to live a dignified life in other countries. Finally, I would like to say that the alternative strongly rejects the hetz and discriminatory tone that we see directed against Roma as ethnic minority. Roma have a complex history and are still subject to oppression throughout Europe. We must distance ourselves from this. That is why it is imperative that we also work for a common European effort to ensure better conditions for Roma in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134614	Thank you. Sir. Marcus Knuth, Left, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134616	Thank you. This is about creating security in Danish cities, and it is fact that there has been a massive increase in traveling foreign homeless and that the number of reports of crime has increased explosively over the past few years. That is why, earlier this year, we gave the police additional tools to better clear camps, and we lifted the penalty for begging. This has led to over 100 charges. The police have cleared a large number of camps, and they have even deported a larger number of people. Does the rapporteur also believe that it is symbolic policy, or has it created more security in the Danish streets?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134656	When I mention the word symbol policy, it is in this context, as I also mentioned in what I said before, that the solution proposed does not solve the problem. What is criminal and what is being done, which is criminal, is already criminal. It is already criminal to steal or be violent to others.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134722	The rapporteur says that these things do not work, but we have just seen that the new tools given to the police work. They have not solved the whole problem, and that is why we want to increase the tools and strengthen them. But when we see that there is something that works, something that the police are happy about, and something that the police can use to solve a task they haven't been able to solve before, then it's just a really, really good idea to give them more of the tools that already work. Does the rapporteur not see this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134750	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134751	But I do not think I agree with the rapporteur of the Left on what the word 'work' means. Does it seem to me that some people are being removed from the street for a certain period of time and then they come out again because the problem is not about it at all? It's a social problem. It is a problem that concerns the fact that some people are excluded where they come from, that they are now also excluded where they have arrived and that they have some social challenges. So we do not believe that the solution is the one that has been presented here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134825	Thank you. Then it's mr. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134832	This applies to all visitors who come here and commit insecurity-building begging, but also crime. What I hear the rapporteur say is that it is a social problem and that they are all poor. What is the evidence that all those who come here are poor and that this is a social problem? What figures do the rapporteur have in mind that they are all poor?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134901	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134903	I'm a little surprised by that question. Most people come here just because they want a job because they have nothing where they come from. I do not think that, according to the organisations working with the homeless, there is any ambiguity that these people are poor. It may well be that Conservatives' rapporteur has a different knowledge, that is, that they are rich, but it is not my impression that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134936	Here you go, sir. Naser Khader.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134937	So there are among them, and we experience this every summer, some who come only for the purpose of committing crime during the summer months. We know that. What do we do about them? It is not poverty that brings them here, but a desire to enrich themselves. What are we going to do about them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134956	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614134957	Well, as I said on the previous question, it's criminal to commit something criminal, and it's still gone. Stealing is criminal, and it's criminal to physically attack other people or whatever it might be. We already have legislation that says that. And that's not what we're talking about here. Here we are talking about some people begging and, as was mentioned before, there is no way to distinguish between some who come from Romania or some who do not. Everyone is equal before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135035	Is there anyone else who wishes to speak? Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135041	The rapporteur makes a number of very sympathetic and very empathetic proposals, that is to say that we have to build shelters, we have to support these people, we have to open our hearts, I hear the rapporteur almost say. When people come here on a relatively large scale to live on the street and live on begging, could one imagine that the number will rise something if people have access to a hot bed to sleep in and for a hot meal? These are sympathetic suggestions. I just need to hear something. We have this series of proposals from the Alternative and thank you for that and what will be the cost of these proposals? How many people are expected to come here? And where will the money come from? You must have thought about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135131	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135133	What we are proposing is that we spend the 8 million. kr., which already lies in this proposal, for what we bring here. That is our proposal. I do not remember whether there were any more questions, but I also think that we are forgetting to talk about the social problems here. And yes, it hurts a little bit in my heart that we're talking about Roma like this, because there are children involved in this, too. Instead of meeting today and making this law, I think we should do a long-term job in which we make a social effort, also in relation to these children, who may in some cases be forced to stand on the streets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135220	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135221	I can have a great deal of sympathy for that and a great deal of understanding for it, but when you come up with political proposals like this, let us do so and so and so, I simply think that 8 million. kr. will propose as something not to be said in the Assembly Hall, even if the meeting is reserved for the National Assembly Hall. Where's the money coming from? You want to open the door to all people with social problems in Europe. We are 500 million people in the EU. I hear from the rapporteur that we simply have to accept those who have social problems because it is a sin. And that's it. It is a pity, but is the solution to open the Danish welfare state wide open and say: Come here, we have a bedroom and a hot meal for everyone? If so, where should the money come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135310	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135312	I believe that the rapporteur is a supporter of the European Union, so the door is already open. I do not think that, with our proposal, we are opening a door even more than it is already. We are suggesting that this transit programme and transit house can be financed with the 8 million. kr., which is in this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135339	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135340	I think it is really interesting when the policy of the alternative is so specified. So you want to solve social problems, you want to save the Roma children, you want to take social action and you want to build a shelter for 8 million. kr. Can the rapporteur explain a little about how many people are expected to have the 8 million? kr. can help with the wide range of areas of action that have been presented here in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135400	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135401	Now I myself have been a few years in municipal politics and chaired the Committee on Children and Education in a municipality, and perhaps the questioner has also been in municipal politics, and I would say that we already have a social obligation, for example. In the case of children, if they are sleeping on the street it is an obligation that we as a municipality have. So it is nothing to do with the fact that this obligation arises in connection with our presentation. That commitment is already there. But I believe that together we have an obligation to find out why it is that there are children sleeping on the street instead of just arresting them. These are children between the ages of 15 and 18 who can now be taken and arrested. I think we have an obligation to do something about that. It's a long talk. I know that and it's longer than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135452	Thank you. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135454	Yes, and if the rapporteur was still in the town hall up in North Zealand where the rapporteur was elected, then I think the mayor would say that one thing was asked and that the rapporteur did not answer any of the question. I asked: for the 8 million. kr., as the rapporteur's party has promised to dedicate to this project, how many parts of the broad social effort proposed can then be implemented and in what time perspective?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135519	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135521	I replied exactly to what was asked, namely that some of the costs associated with the social effort are already part of a municipality's budget, and that is also why the Mayor of Copenhagen has been out talking about addressing this problem. So part of it is already part of a municipality's tasks and part of a municipality's budget, for example. What I mentioned is that children are taken care of if they are taken care of, for example. If you're forced to commit crime, you'll take care of the kids and find out who's the custody officer for these kids. I think we should dig a lot deeper into this and figure out what it is, for example. is for some children who are staying in this country and then also contact the authorities where they come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135612	Are there any further brief comments to the rapporteur? There isn't. Then it is Mrs Zenia Stampe as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135629	Thank you. There is no doubt that we have a problem here, and I think we all agree on that. We have a problem with foreign homeless people, and that problem is particularly big in Copenhagen, and it is particularly big in the summer, and it is a growing problem. It is a problem because it creates insecurity when you meet homeless people who sleep under bridges, sleep in parks, and even if we can remove camps, they are there, and that creates insecurity for Copenhageners. It also creates anger when you experience that the baby carriage is stolen or people are messing around in your farm, even if it should be locked off, and it also creates insecurity when you meet beggars on your way through the S-train. Then it also creates frustration, because we have spent many decades in Denmark developing a welfare society where people do not have to live on the streets. The good thing about people not living on the streets is that these people have a dignified life, but also that you can feel safe and walk safely on the streets. That's why I understand this is something that's recording everyone. I also believe that it records boats from right to left in the Folketing. But the question is how this problem has arisen and what we are doing to solve it. This problem has two sources. One source is the rules of free movement, and you know my party well enough to know that we like freedom of movement, but it may well be that you have to look at it anyway. At any rate, we are very open to the talk about whether you can look at the residence directive and make some restrictions, so you say yes to free movement when it comes to tourism, when it comes to looking for jobs, but, of course, not the free movement of poverty or homelessness. What has the government done in this regard? That would be the first place to go, to look at the rules that have opened up to this stream of people. The other place you have to look is at the countries that people are seeking away from. Now I'm just looking at you from the Danish People's Party, because sometimes I hear you talk really, really nice about Hungary and some of those countries, and then I just want to say that when the Roma come up here, it's because they're being treated so insanely bad where they come from. In Hungary, Orbán, as we have all heard, has just given a medal to his good friend, party friend, journalist Bayer, who has said that if you drive a gypsy child over, you just have to press the accelerator, or that many of them are animals, they behave like animals, they are not able to live with ordinary people. When you hear that rhetoric and know that it's the reason people stand up here, you gotta be fucking stupid to copy that rhetoric when you're here...
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135924	I must ask that the chamber tone be held here too if I may speak out. It is exactly the same as in the Parliamentary Chamber, and it is the same rules that apply here as in the other floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614135935	Then you have to be naive... let me use that word instead of "if you think it solves the problem of copying the rhetoric." Because if you copy that rhetoric, you agree with Orbán that he just has to treat the Roma like he does. The more we legitimize that treatment, the more Roma people will be knocking on our door, and then throwing them in jail is no use. Because you know what? I think it is better to be in a Danish prison than to live on the streets of Hungary. That is why I think this discussion is about what we are doing to solve the problem. We're not gonna solve the problem by demonizing these people, even though God knows there's a lot of criticism to say about this situation. And I understand that people are annoyed and angry and frustrated. Putting them in prison doesn't help either, because it might be a better life than what they come from. And it doesn't help by God to make legislation that hits our own homeless people either. That is why I would just like to say at second reading, as I said at first reading, that this is a common problem. That's a huge problem. I have friends who have texted me and said: you are a politician, and it may be that I am such a person who likes foreigners, but I think this is a problem. I feel insecure, and I'm annoyed that they stole my baby carriage. I'm gonna go look for it every time I see some Roma. I get it. I'm not such a halalhippie who says that we just have to live with that because we're rich, and then they have to come and take our baby carriages. It's such a kind of social assistance. No, that's a problem. But could we not solve it in the European Union where the problem has arisen? As a glowing European, I can see that too. Couldn't we try to solve that? Could we not try to tackle the governments that treat their citizens so badly that they end up knocking on our door? Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140110	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140113	Thank you for your very warm-blooded speech. I am glad that the rapporteur recognises that we have problems with insecurity-building begging, that we have problems with theft. I am sorry to hear about the stroller and that we have problems with these insecurity-building camps. But it is now, in the summer of 2017. I agree, of course, that we also need to have a dialogue in Brussels and in an EU framework, but does the rapporteur really believe that we can solve the problem we have at the moment, in the summer of 2017, through a dialogue in the European Union alone and by solving the problems of poverty in Romania?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140149	No, I don't think so. But then I have to say that if this was as big a problem as it is, and also as big as I can understand that Mr. Marcus Knuth thinks it's or as he thinks it's been in the last three months before the municipal elections... why didn't you already look at it a few years ago with the same intensity? If this dialogue had been taken down in Brussels several years ago, it could have been that a solution had been found. Now we are approaching a municipal election, and it is quick to make such a small punishment, and then perhaps in the short term, before the election day, people can imagine that it has solved the problem, which is much bigger and much more structural, and which could be resolved if you went down to Brussels and talked to the people who are responsible, rather than making symbolic solutions up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140230	Sir. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140230-2	Thank you. I would just like to emphasise that I am pleased that I have many good colleagues from the Left around me. I have pointed out this problem ever since I was elected to the Folketing two years ago. It's not something I've just magicated out of my sleeve for the past few months. In addition, more than a year ago we came up with new measures which tightened the penalties for begging and which enabled us to go in to clear some of these insecurity-building camps; these were some of the rules that came into force here earlier this year. So we've done something about this. We just think that we should do even more about it. So let me ask the rapporteur directly: in addition to these EU measures and the rapporteur's vision of solving poverty in Romania, what will the rapporteur do about action here by the Folketing, from where we stand today, which can solve the problem we have in Copenhagen and in other cities in the summer of 2017?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140318	I can't solve it in two months, but the Left can't solve it either, because if it does, as Mr. Marcus Knuth says that is a problem that has occupied him for a very long time, so I wonder why he hasn't solved it yet. However, it is now my view that this is a problem which is getting bigger, but which has also been placed in such a position that action against Roma was the only thing a majority could agree on after the end of the debate, despite the fact that it is a recurring problem which, like Mr Tugendhat, has to face. Rune Lund has also said, although it is an increasing and violent problem, is not an exploding problem. It has existed for a long time. Then I just have to say something about the perseverance with which the Left goes to this matter, both in the Assembly Chamber and in the media. I was just searching for sir. Marcus Knuth's name by writing the words Knuth and Roma and could then see words like romaplage, Roma possession, harasser, exploit, terrorize Danes. This is the rhetoric that has been used as the prelude to a municipal elections. I just want to say that if it was such a big problem where such big words were to be used, I just cannot understand why that effort has only really been launched for the last three months. Maybe it's because there's a municipal election just around the corner and mr. Marcus Knuth is also set up for that election.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140430	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140430-2	Thank you. You would not believe it, but there is one thing in which I would agree with Mrs Zenia Stampe, and that is that it is a little strange that it suddenly comes to such a hello here, because our good colleagues in the Left have had countless opportunities to vote for good DF proposals, which have been put forward a sea of times in the Folketing and which could have dealt with this problem, but that has been chosen not to do so. So this, of course, should have been addressed a long time ago. However, I would like to ask Mrs Zenia Stampe, who is very much in favour of the European Union and who is very much in favour of the open borders and the rules now on free movement, if Mrs Zenia Stampe will not agree with the Danish People's Party and the undersigned that the reason why we have this problem, and the reason why it has grown in the last year, is actually that some countries have been brought into the European Union that have not been mature enough for it, and that it is also because it is so easy for those citizens to move on to other countries, including Denmark. So can Mrs Zenia Stampe see that the problem is actually the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140524	The problem is not the European Union, but the problem has arisen in connection with the European Union and certainly also enlargement. I think that enlargement to the countries of Eastern Europe was worth it, but it has created some problems. After all, we also have a problem with some Eastern European countries which no longer meet the Copenhagen criteria. So what do you do? I think that we should look at the possibility that there might be sanctions or that countries could be thrown out for that matter if they did not comply with the Copenhagen criteria, which were the entry requirement to get in at all. And there are, among other things. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). I mentioned Hungary - and I also mentioned Orbán - which is a country that does not meet the standards we set as a requirement to become a member of the European Union at all. And that is precisely one of the reasons why we have the Roma up here because they are fleeing from the country that does not take their own human or minority rights seriously, and that is why they come up here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140615	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140615-2	Should I understand that the Radical Left is warming up for Hungary to be thrown out of the European Union? This could be today's message from the Danish Parliament from the National Assembly's platform. So Mrs Zenia Stampe could just add a few remarks to that. That would be interesting. Should I also understand that the Radical Left recognises that a significant part of the reason why we have these problems is that we have had very open borders for a long time now we have closed them a little more, and that is nice and that there are these rules on free movement? And if the Radical Left recognises this, does the Radical Left also recognise that the solution is to ensure that the European Union is given less powers in this area in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140657	Well, let me be perfectly honest and say that the residence directive is not good enough. Freedom of movement, yes, but under some other conditions, and one of those conditions may be that you should have an address, that is, an address of a hotel or an apartment, a place where you live, so that it is not homelessness that is exported, as is the case today. As a fervent supporter of the European Union and freedom of movement, I can agree with that, and I would therefore like to take part in that restriction. I simply do not think that this is an argument for us to flush out the European Union and free movement with the bathing water, no, but I am not so happy that I will always say yes to all enlargements by the European Union or all types of free movement. There are problems and there we need to be realistic, and we need to try to solve those problems in the European Union instead of making symbolic political legislation here and using it as an opportunity to strike the European Union in such a general way. I think the European Union is a good thing I was just about to use another not so nice word about how well I think the European Union is, but I just have to remember that this is Parliament's speaking chair. I think that the European Union is excellent, but of course there are things that need to be better tuned together. And this is a problem, we have to do something about it and we have to do something about it in Brussels.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140807	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140808	Thank you for that and thank you for recognising that there is a problem, because there was not much of it on the left who said that we had to solve all the poverty problems in Europe on the streets of Copenhagen. And it is also a recognition that the free movement of workers and tourism and students are something quite different from the problem we see here in the streets of Copenhagen. But now there is a saying that the best is the worst enemy of the good and until we have the best solution, what is the reason why the Radical Left does not want to back the bill we are discussing here and now, which will, of course, solve some of the problems here and now in the coming summer? What is the reason why we are not going to agree to solutions that can remedy the problem here and now, while we are then working on solving the major overall problems associated with freedom of movement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614140917	Firstly, it also affects the Danish homeless. That is also why we wonder why the Social Democrats are voting in favour. I still think they have to admit that this is actually going to hit the Danish homeless. Mrs Mette Frederiksen said otherwise that she would only vote in favour of such a proposal if they were not hit. But that is a reality, because they are also being hit. That is one argument. Secondly, an argument is also that this is about the homeless staying at home. It is not about locking them up in Denmark in the form of long prisons. Now I understand from the Danish People's Party that they will give them such a 3-month stay in Danish prisons. I think we should work for them to stay home, not in jail, but at home where they come from. That is what needs to be in focus, and that is why we need to go to Brussels, because that is where we can achieve results on that ball field.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614141007	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614141008	Listen, you can say the thing about working for something, but it won't be solved here for the coming summer, and Danish homeless people aren't going to go through the S-train and beg. Danish homeless people shouldn't sit up and down Strøget and beg. You make it sound like it's gonna be a crime to be homeless. It's not gonna be. It's a criminal thing. It's also today to beg, and now it's gonna be extra criminal if you beg these places where we now see that people almost don't know their city again, because there's homeless people sitting next to each other up and down our pedestrian streets. In other words, Danish homeless people are not supposed to do that either, nor are Danish homeless people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614141047	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614141048	It was an incredibly honest defence that so changed the argument a little, because then this is actually an attack on Danish homeless people. Then it's not just about foreign homeless people. It's also about the guy who goes down the S-train. I meet funny enough, no, it's not funny, because it's actually a little tragic, the same man, almost every time I drive S-train. I think it is his regular route, and he is certainly not insecure, on the contrary. I think it's a little too bad for him. But then he will have 14 days the first time he gets caught, and from there he will have up to 1⁄2 years. I am against that. I think that's too much. This is not proportional to comparison with other penalties, for example. violence. It's just not fair for you to walk down a S-train and ask for a fiver, and then you get a punishment similar to the one you could have if you had knocked someone down on the street.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614141134	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote. For the sake of good order, we're gonna make sure we call in those who are outside.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614141144	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (S). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. You're welcome to sit down. Members who are abstaining will be asked to stand up. What are we doing to get some exercise today? Thank you. For the vote 22 (DF), against 52 (V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 27 (S). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF). Members who vote in favour, please stand up. Thank you. Members who are voting against are asked to stand up. Thank you. Who votes for or against? There's no one there. Thank you. In favour 22 (DF), against 79 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. 3, specified manner). I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170614141612	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting will be held today, when we will begin with the third reading of Bill No. L 215. I would point out that two amendments from the Danish People's Party and one from the Minister for Justice will be included at the third reading. In order to ensure that Members have the opportunity to familiarise themselves with the amendments, we are taking a 1⁄2 hour break. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held today, Wednesday 14 June 2017 kl. 14.45.
