ParlaMint-DK_20170505100027	The meeting is open. Radical Left Parliamentary Group has informed me that it has appointed Mette Annelie Rasmussen as a member to the Board of Directors of the Institute of Multi-party Cooperation. 26 April 2017 instead of Henning Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100053	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100132	The debate is open. Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100146	Thank you. With the bill here we award Danish citizenship to 2,139 citizens, no more and no less. After all, we rapporteurs tend to stand here on the floor and welcome in turn, but in reality there is no great reason to welcome them, because the people who stand on today's bill are people who have their lives here in Denmark and have had them for many years of working life and family life alongside the rest of us. It is our friends, our neighbours, our colleagues, our party friends and our family members that we can now congratulate on Danish citizenship. At the same time, we can then welcome their desire to be able to call themselves Danish citizens and thus fully commit to our community and our country. So, from the point of view of the Social Democrats, there should not be so much welcome here today as there should be a great and warm congratulations. We look forward to sharing both the duties and rights of citizenship with you. These draft laws on the communication of citizenship are often an opportunity to attach a few words to being and becoming Danish. Later today there happens to be a question debate on that particular subject, so I shall not go into the discussion now and here, because we will come to that later today, but it is only natural to touch on the map here too. For what does it mean to be Danish? Legally speaking, you are Danish if you have Danish citizenship, but you only get that if you pass a citizenship test, which revolves around the things that we find to be a central community for the Danish historical, cultural and social context. And what is that? Yes, these are the fundamental values and principles of democracy, freedom of expression, equality, the independent rights of children, the rule of law and the primacy of science over faith. It hasn't always been like this in Denmark, and those things haven't come by themselves. And that part of our story, I always make a lot of it when I show school classes around Christiansborg. The country we are today has come into being thanks to political struggles and strife through the history of Denmark. There were, in fact, strong forces in Denmark that were against democracy and against people having the most access to power. They were too censorship and against freedom of expression, and it's crazy to think about in today's Denmark. After all, women's access to our democracy did not come on its own; on the contrary, it had to be fought hard and long against a basic notion that the man spoke for women, of course, and that women could not handle being part of political life at all. If you read the debates of the time when women were fighting for the right to vote, you will even find doctors who say that women are biologically not made to relate to politics. Our brain wouldn't stand it, they thought. I think we are now a couple of women in this Chamber today who are going to sign off on that they weren't quite right about that. Fortunately, we can also see that there is a feature in the Danish, which is about having a healthy portion of scepticism towards authorities. For if we had now as a whole been more authoritative, such warnings from scholars in the medical profession could have meant that women should have waited longer to gain access to Parliament and Landsting. Children's right to a childhood of play, schooling and a life without beating is all things we associate with the core Danish. But it is also something that had to be fought for, and next month we can actually celebrate in this House the 20th anniversary of the abolition of the right of rebuke. It only became a reality when a young Minister of Justice named Frank Jensen tabled a bill to abolish the right of parents to beat their children. Imagine that for so relatively recently it has been legal and accepted in Danish families and in our society. This is how you can review every single one of the values and principles that we take for granted today as basic Danish. They are the foundation of our everyday life, and we expect each other to be respected, but it has not always been a foundation for life in Denmark. That also says that we are not finished yet, because just as all these things have not come of themselves, they do not continue to consist of themselves either. The free and equal access to health, education, education and care for the elderly, with care and security for all, is fundamental in what today constitutes the Danish and the basic idea of our tax-financed welfare society, where you provide according to your ability and enjoy according to your needs, where the degree of organisation is high, where the Danish model is strong and ensures proper wage conditions. You can't take that for granted. If we look around the world or just south of our own border, you have larger and illegal subclasses, and we don't usually want to accept that as Danish. I do not think we should do that in the future either. The short of the length of the Social Democratic Party here today is that the Danish cannot be reduced to a legal definition. There is more at stake, and we must stand by it together. It is basically quite valuable that this is the case. So dear new citizens: Now it is not only your right to be in charge of Denmark, for it is also your duty to contribute to our joint discussions with your own experiences and take an active part in the debate and society. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate all of you who have worked hard to get your names on this bill, and I also regret that in some cases there has been a very long processing period. I think we in this House agree on this, and we are working on it. I can also see from the President that I shall see to it that I conclude, so I would say that we Socialists naturally support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100721	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100725	Thank you, President, and thank you for your speech. I would like to use this debate as an opportunity to ask the rapporteur: who actually grants citizenship, whether it is the Danish Parliament, or whether it is the conventions that, like us, oblige us to give citizenship? It is a matter of principle which I think has become more urgent to discuss at a time when the majority of the Committee on the Rights of the Child decided yesterday to try the so-called disability cases. All of them had to be legally tested through the Disability Convention. Then I would like to know: who really gives citizenship? Is it the case that if there is a legal judgment in relation to the Disability Convention, it is then per year? definition of citizenship given in relation to the Convention, or is it the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100816	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100818	There can be little doubt about that. After all, the rapporteur was at the same meeting, the rapporteur was actually President at the same meeting, where I was also, where we were discussing it here, and now it is going to sound as if we are going to have sent every single dispensation case past a court and get a decision here and thus take power from us here in the Folketing to give citizenship and give it to the courts. That's not what was decided. What was decided was to have an in-depth assessment of how the personal case of these people, and fortunately it is a small number applying for a derogation, is seen in relation to the disability convention. But that was also made very clear at yesterday's sitting, and there was agreement in committee on that too. I see several people who were at the meeting here today that it is not something that is then binding on committee members because citizenship is granted by law and thus by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100906	Sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100908	No one here has talked about courts. I haven't. I have merely said that there has been the innovation in granting citizenship that a majority in the Committee on the Rights of the Child, led by the Enhedslisten and with the Social Democrats and the Left has now found it opportune that these cases should be tested by a legal expertise from the National Court. Then I'll just have to ask if it's not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100935	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505100937	I do not think that this is a perfectly reasonable presentation coming from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The finding was that that possibility already exists, i.e. Enhedslisten's Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen's Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen's, to take an example, would at any time be able to send each individual case to the birthright office and ask them to make that assessment. This would mean a further delay in a process which, I think, we are broadly in agreement on is already a very long one, and which we are, in fact, working hard to bring down. So now we are trying the approach where we get words on the way from the birthright office in relation to the disability convention in the first round. We haven't tried that yet. Now we'll see what it's gonna be like, and then we'll have to take it from there. But I think that Mr. Christian Langballe owes it to say that it was very clear at the meeting that Mr. Christian Langballe is still not bound by the assessment that is coming, to a greater extent than he has been so far by the commitments he has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101028	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101034	Thank you. It is L 189 who are debating today, and it is about the granting of Danish citizenship. There are 2,139 adults and 571 children who now acquire citizenship. We will not vote in favour. We are not going to participate in the continued dissolution of Denmark. We will not promote parallel societies with citizens who may never become Danes. We refuse to take part in the parliamentary drama that is going to take place today, where all the other parties will welcome and congratulate and praise how fantastic things are going. Social democracy has just done it, the Left will do it, the Liberal Alliance, the Radicals, the SF, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and perhaps even the Conservatives will do it. In a big collective friendly brotherhood, they'll pretend that everything is so amazingly good. And that is how the parliamentary theatre will continue with the same humanist pluralities that have been drawn from the old arsenal of the cultural radicals and intellectual left, and this parliamentary theatre will then continue to cause the dissolution of Europe and Denmark. Why? It will, because history keeps repeating itself. This always begins with the arrival of refugees and immigrants in Denmark, and there has been a dangerous mass since the unhappy refugee law of 1983. It is a flood of refugees that has mainly come from Middle Eastern Muslim countries. Now it has happened that from day one these refugees have been turned into immigrants, who then have to have work and integrate into Danish society, and when about 10 years have passed, they must of course, according to a large majority of parties in the Folketing, have Danish citizenship, because you cannot expel them when they have been here for so many years, a large majority has said. The consequence of this has been that at some point people who have been granted asylum will end up with citizenship. It is almost a human right, a large majority of Parliament's parties believe, and that is why they will also vote for the law of citizenship again, as they have done time and time again. Just so that there is no doubt about where we in the Danish People's Party stand: refugees must per. definition do not have Danish citizenship because they have come to Denmark as refugees. They're going home when there's peace in their homeland. Why do 120 Iraqis today need citizenship? Why aren't they sent home now that there's peace and no danger? Why should they not help build their own country? And that's how you can keep doing it. It is people who come to the country as refugees and immigrants, and a large majority of the parties in the Folketing believe that those people somehow have an irrefutable and sacred right to Danish citizenship. That is why the Parliamentary Theatre continues, and that is why all the parties of the Folketing, except the DF, are voting for citizenship time and time again. We say no. We don't want to take part in the lazy theater. We believe that consideration should be given to the country of origin and our descendants at times. We believe that a majority of the parties continue to contribute to the dissolution of Denmark, and we refuse to contribute to this. Finally, allow me to address a relationship between DF and Left. The Left spoke very loudly in order to put an end to the Convention regime before the elections. Sir. Karsten Lauritzen spoke about it, Pind spoke about it, but that was of course a long time ago, and now we have come into government. But I still wonder why it is that the Left in the Committee on Bodily Rights is going under the convention regime and voting in favour of a large number of exemption cases, the so-called disability cases, now being tested by lawyers from the birthright office in relation to the disability convention. How is it that the Left, with the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical and Social Democrats, is voting in favour of this and against DF? I'm just asking. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101544	Thank you. Since reference is made to someone who was not a minister at the time, Mr. Søren Pind. Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101556	Thank you. This was a very surprising speech from the Danish People's Party, because the Danish People's Party is part of the agreement we have made on the criteria for obtaining Danish citizenship. After all, we have tightened the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship ■ quite considerably after we got a new government. At the same time, the majority of the Committee on Birth Rights has changed, so in the last period, where exceptions were granted practically to all those who sought, today it is very, very difficult to obtain a derogation, at least from the language requirements, because we agree with the Danish People's Party that if you cannot Danish, then you are not Danes, that is what binds us together. After all, the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of the previous legislative proposals that we have had, where we have granted citizenship rights. So I would like to say that the speech from the Danish People's Party surprises me and annoys me, and I am somewhat incomprehensible that the Danish People's Party votes against the people that we had given citizenship under an agreement that the Danish People's Party co-signed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101708	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101710	Well, at last consider it the way that agreement has been terminated. We have repeatedly pointed out that we are voting in favour with very mixed feelings, and now we are not doing it anymore, among other things. Having regard to the fact that we had a proposal for a cap of 1.000 we will not grant citizenship to more than 1.000 a year and we indicated on that occasion that if it was voted down, we could not continue to vote in favour. That's the way it is. I would also like to say that it makes it clear that the Left has begun to vote with the Enhedslisten with regard to this convention regime that we would like to put down on the Committee on Bodily Rights, and we do not want to take part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101800	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101802	It was news today that an agreement was cancelled from the Parliament's platform. I think that is really, really a pity, because I think that we had made a very good agreement, in which we could even have reached an agreement across the middle with the Social Democrats, which we had been able to break free from the claws of Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, if I may say so. So I think that's really, really bad. And then I don't think that sir... Christian Langballe correctly refers the meeting of the Committee on the Rights of the Child. What is at issue is that nothing can prevent a member of the Folketing from asking for the information that the committee is now asking for. So it will be a blow to the air to try to prevent Enhedslisten in something that we cannot prevent Enhedslisten in anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101848	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101850	What's just the matter is that the Left is behind it. The Left is behind it, and it is only regrettable that the Left is choosing that way under the convention regime. That's the way we don't want to go. It's really very simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101906	Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505101909	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, in his rapporteur's speech, made it almost as if you could travel across the border, get a stay as a refugee, get asylum in Denmark, and then you can become a citizen. That's not true. You have to have a permanent stay in Denmark, i.e.: The right to live here and have your life here in order to be able to apply for citizenship, and you are then met with a lot of demands, including some demands that we have helped to tighten up together. I would actually have asked the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party to confirm the demands we agreed on in a joint agreement after thorough and serious negotiations, but I can then understand and that surprises me too, and I do not think that I have seen it this way before the Danish People's Party has stepped out of that circle now from the parliamentary platform, and then it does not make much sense to ask the rapporteur to confirm the things we agreed on if we no longer agree. But can the rapporteur then reveal what the Danish People's Party wants to be replaced by demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102008	So let me put it in a slightly different way, namely that we are, of course, standing by the agreements we have concluded, that is clear, but we are just not bound by the agreement anymore. We do not feel obliged to the agreement anymore because we still believe that there are too many, and this is an honest matter. Now we have seen how this agreement works and we have proposed that a ceiling of 1,000 be set. We think this is the only right thing for the sake of Denmark and the future and our descendants, who I believe play a very small role in this debate. I would also like to say that when I address this here with regard to the stair ladder in which people come here as refugees and then become immigrants from day one, as they do now, and then perhaps at some point a citizenship is waiting, I can only see that now there will be many, many thousands of Syrian refugees, and I can then count on them to apply for Danish citizenship, and then they will get it by a majority. Of course they have to meet some requirements, it is clear, but I think that mechanism just keeps going ahead and that's what I'm trying to address in my speech. That goes on. The flow of refugees doesn't disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102128	Speaking time must be observed. Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102132	I think it is irresponsible to try to draw a picture of the fact that you can draw a citizenship of a machine, or that it is such a thing that automatically fails after a number of years. There are very strict requirements for obtaining citizenship, and so it must be. But so, I have to ask again: does this mean that you are not bound by an agreement? Has the Danish People's Party resigned from the contract circle, or has the Danish People's Party not resigned from the contract circle? You can't both blow and have flour in your mouth. You can't be a little pregnant like that. Either you are a member of an agreement, and then you are bound by it, or you have resigned. I think that the rapporteur is trying to do both things a little bit, and that is something we need to clarify here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102207	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102209	What I'm saying is actually nothing new. I said this at the time when we were discussing the proposal with the ceiling of 1,000 citizens. At that time, I said that if it was not a requirement that was met or further tightening came, we did not feel any more obliged by that agreement. We recognise that we have concluded it, but it is just the way it is. This isn't the first time I've said it. I've told you before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102234	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102238	I'm just mystified. I don't know if it's called that, but in doubt at least. What does it mean that the Danish People's Party now informs the government from the platform that the agreement on the birthright circle has been terminated? What is the consequence?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102257	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102259	Now we are in the business of Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen-mølle, where Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen has to ask tricky questions, because Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen will then avoid presenting what the policy of Enhedslisten in the area of citizenship is, where there is virtually no policy at all. I just think that's interesting. I have answered Mrs Astrid Krag on that question and I do not really want to repeat it to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102336	Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102338	That was an incredibly strange answer which had absolutely nothing to do with the question. The question was a simple one, and I ask because I have serious doubts. What does it mean when today the Danish People's Party from the platform in the Folketing announces to the government that the citizenship agreement has been terminated? I don't know what that means. What's the consequence of that message? The rapporteur must be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102417	I would like to give an answer. I have no problem with it, and I have done it in three rounds, and then Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen feels like having to put a little lice in the skin to continue that discussion instead of presenting her own policy. That's okay, because it's like it used to be with the Enhedslisten. We do not feel obliged to that agreement anymore. We recognise that we have concluded it, but we do not feel obliged by that agreement anymore, and that is why we are voting against it. That is the point. That's how it's supposed to be understood.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102446	Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102450	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for being so reasonably clear in this area, because that is what you have to say. Is it not in relation to the disability convention and the new thing that came out in the committee yesterday, namely that there is a legal assessment of the cases of sick and disabled people, so that a majority in the committee can still choose to say that if you put x, y and z as the basis, then it would be contrary to the disability convention not to grant citizenship, but that we may disagree with the fact that x, y and z are based on, and thus still do not break any conventions at all, denying citizenship to a number of citizens? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102540	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102542	I simply disagree with the premises, because these conventions go beyond something and try to determine something they cannot, and that is in relation to citizenship. The nationality is granted by the Folketing. The only convention that we have signed, which includes citizenship, is the Convention on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs of 1997. Now we are trying to turn our work on the Committee on Bodily Rights into a Convention issue. I disagree with that premise. I do not think this is a convention issue, and that is why I believe that the Left and others are taking the business of Enhedslisten, who would have liked to have made it all a convention issue, so that citizenship can be granted per person. automatic. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102630	Mrs. Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102632	However, we agree with the rapporteur that this is an issue which is not about conventions and that it is a decision taken by the Folketing. I am quite sure that the Left and other good forces also agree with us, in other words with the rapporteur and ourselves in the Liberal Alliance. And that's how we can make it forward-looking. In advance, it may well be that there is a legal assessment in the material we receive, but the decision is ours alone. Therefore, this does not necessarily mean that we are obliged to give more citizenship than we have been in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102705	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102707	I simply disagree with the way in which this is done. That's not the point. What is at stake is that, by voting together with a majority in relation to the disability convention, it is made a Convention issue. That is the basic premise for me, and I think that is simply a huge mistake. I have to say. Then you can vote for or against. We're going to vote as usual. To go under that convention regime in relation to citizenship I think is simply a huge misunderstanding and a political blunder of rank.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102740	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102744	Now the rapporteur mentions the word'styranni'. I believe that the rapporteur called it several times in connection with this that we have asked for an independent legal assessment of whether we are breaking the disability convention in committee. I am genuinely surprised that the rapporteur uses it with the disability convention to justify not voting for today, among other things. Because I do not really think that it is escaping with the Danish People's Party's policy in the field of disability and in the social field. And I wonder whether the disability convention should make it possible for DF to resign from treating disabled people with respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102831	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102833	Well, I have to ask the rapporteur to listen. We have not voted against the disability convention. We have voted 'no' for quite other reasons that I have mentioned in my speech. Finally, in conclusion, in my speech, I addressed the fact that yesterday a majority made citizenship a Convention issue. These are two different things. Can the rapporteur not just listen to what I am saying before asking questions where we are going to have to problematize a lot of things that are no reason to troubleatize?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102917	Would Mrs Pernille Schnoor like to speak? Then she's gonna have to step in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102921	I listened very, very carefully, and much of what the rapporteur said, I think I and others already knew. However, I also think that the rapporteur spent a great deal of time talking about the disability convention, so I would still like to hear something about it. I do not think that the policy of the Danish People's Party, as I know it, is a fugitive in the field of social and disability. So I do not understand why the rapporteur spends so much time thinking these things that we just want to have assessed something in relation to the disability convention in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505102958	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103000	Well, excuse me, but I think this is a little hello man ax handle. What I am discussing, and I have tried to do so, is that I do not believe that it is the Convention that should decide who should have citizenship. Does this mean that I disagree with my party that disabled people must have a humane and decent life in Denmark, where we must help them as well as we can? I haven't said anything about not having to. I think we should continue to do so, and I will fight for it. It's just another question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103041	Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103045	For me it seems very strange that the Danish People's Party votes against a bill which follows directly from an agreement in which the Danish People's Party itself is involved. That is why I just want to ask the rapporteur: does it have any other consequences that the Danish People's Party no longer feels obliged to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103102	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103104	Now, on several occasions, the rapporteur has called the proposals I have made in the area of citizenship incredibly unsympathetic. And I can feel the pain of discomfort when the rapporteur has commented on my proposals. I said in a debate on the ceiling of the 1,000, which we believe should be the ceiling on how many people can get citizenship per year, that, of course, if we do not recognise that there are still too many, that means that we no longer feel obliged by the agreement we have concluded. So what? We have voted against granting citizenship before, and we have actually done so quite a lot of times, I would remind you of that. We were happy with that deal when we made it. Now we have looked at its implications and then we find that too many people are still getting citizenship and that the 120 Iraqis who are on the proposal should not have had citizenship. They should have been sent home to help build their country. It's a misguided way of doing things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103209	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103212	It's just to understand what it means, because I'm wondering a little bit about it. When the Danish People's Party says that you no longer feel obliged to do so, is it because you have indicated to the government that you no longer want to be part of the agreement, or what is the consequence of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103228	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103230	I am almost honoured that both the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten are so interested in what the Danish People's Party thinks. It could be that it was so contagious compared to making more sensible decisions. It means the individual that we encourage the government to what I have actually done to get tightened up. That's what it means.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103258	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103315	Thank you for the floor. I can hear it all, that the speech I had written for today, I can't use so much. It starts with the fact that today is a very special day, and yes, it is, but not in the way I had expected. I had expected it to be a special day because 2,139 people and the 571 accompanying children acquire citizenship. Today alone, of course, we are giving citizenship to more than the 1,000 proposed earlier by the Danish People's Party. Now I'm speaking to the Danish People's Party, so I'm really happy if you want to listen to what I say you don't want to. Oh. I think that's a real shame. I do not think that this discussion is really appropriate to be conducted here, but perhaps should have been conducted in the circle of agreements. But if you meet a criterion, you meet a criterion, and you do so, whether you are no. 1,001, which meets that criterion, or one is no. A thousand. And it was not a demand that was made in the negotiations at the time that a ceiling should be set, because then we should have called for a new round of negotiations and discussed it here. Then something has been mentioned about a meeting which I have even thought was a closed meeting, but I must of course refer to what I said at that meeting. And what I have said is that since there is nothing that can prevent any Member of Parliament from asking questions about a legislative proposal, it does not make sense that the committee should then try to prevent a Member from getting that information. Well, Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen or Mr. Martin Henriksen or Mr. Christian Langballe or anyone can ask for an assessment of whether it would be contrary to the disability convention or not to grant citizenship to somebody. So it would be a completely empty blow to the air if we were to say that you cannot, because we cannot prevent that. I also think it is a very violent reaction, almost an overreaction, before we have even seen the letter that is being sent from the committee to the birthright office about what we are asking for. It's a purely procedural matter. I think it seems very impulsive to resort to termination of agreements, and what I know, because the Left has not wanted to prevent something that we do not. I would like to make it absolutely clear that yes, it is the Folketing, no one but the Folketing, who grants citizenship, and we do so under law. On the other hand, it is also the case that Denmark naturally accedes to conventions in order to comply with them. You don't sign up to a convention to break it. However, I have no idea that the Convention on Disability should force us to do so per year. automatic to give citizenship to a whole lot of people who are not Danes. I can also say 'because it is obviously a misunderstanding which flourishes in many places, that if you have ptsd, for example, you get Danish citizenship almost like that per year. Automatically that's not the case. I could also say that this is no longer the case because there has been a new political majority and there has been a new government which considers it absolutely fundamental that you can Danish if you want to be a Danish citizen. That's what ties us together. It's the language. Danish is not spoken in countries other than Denmark. In Sweden and Norway they talk something like it, but it is not Danish. Only we speak Danish, and that is why you are not a Dane unless you speak Danish. Then we can discuss how well we should be able to speak it and so on, but that is a fundamental requirement. So we do not grant exemptions to people who cannot Danish. That's what they got earlier. It's not like that anymore. It was also what Grundtvig so beautifully wrote that one must have for the mother tongue ear in order to obtain Danish citizenship. So I have to say that I am surprised and incomprehensible about the reaction of the Danish People's Party to a purely procedural matter, unless, of course, this is the one with the 1,000, that is, the maximum limit of 1,000 which has been decisive. Because it is true that we are giving citizenship to more than 1,000, but it is not clear from the agreement we have made that there should be some ceiling. My sense of justice and that of the Left would therefore be greatly violated if we were to say to 1,000 people who met the criteria: you can get, but the next 1,000 who meet exactly the same criteria cannot get. I would also like to try to eradicate a misunderstanding. So it is not some people who come to Denmark that we are talking about here today. It's some people who are that we can't change. And then I find it gratifying that the people have acquired Danish, that they have not committed crime, that they have a job, that they do not owe money to the public, that they support themselves, that they are integrated and part of Danish society and consider themselves to be so Danish that they apply for Danish citizenship. I think we should really be pleased about that rather than the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103824	Thank you. Sir. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103830	When we made an agreement on new conditions for citizenship in October 2015, we committed ourselves to voting in favour of that agreement. Done, done. We therefore undertook to vote in favour of the agreement and to vote in favour of the conditions. And now we have a situation where we think we need to tighten up. And it is clear that that is what we are saying and what we are doing. There's nothing obnoxious about that. We haven't made a settlement. It is not a settlement we are talking about now, it is a vote agreement. There's nothing awkward about saying that now we've been trying to see how this deal works, and there's still too many people getting citizenship. That is the prerequisite for us to say what we are doing today. Then I'll grab Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen, as rapporteur, is not only a procedural issue with regard to the conventions. That is simply not true. It is an innovation in the Committee on the Rights of the Child that matters should be tried in accordance with the convention. It is an innovation to which the Left has added votes. And I think we should pay tribute to Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen. She's done a good job. She put the whole bourgeois block checkmate on this. I just think that's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103940	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505103942	Well, that's absolutely correct. So this is not a conciliation, it is a vote agreement. And I would actually have preferred a settlement because it had tied the Social Democrats also after an election where they had to get the majority of that election coming in many, many years. But if that were to happen, it would be really, really nice to have a settlement, so that the Social Democrats were bound not to enter into a new settlement or a new agreement with those parties who, after all, almost think that everyone should have Danish citizenship. So I would certainly have preferred a settlement. But it is true that it is a vote agreement, and that is why, of course, it can be denounced. I just think it would have been useful to have asked instead for a debate to have been convened so that we might have an additional agreement, or whatever. The Left cannot prevent Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen from asking for the information that Mrs Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen would like. If the Enhedslisten or others want an assessment of whether or not something is contrary to a convention, then they are in their full right to do so. I can't stop it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104048	Sir. Christian Langballe, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104052	After all, the rapporteur himself decides what the rapporteur is voting 'yes' or 'no' to. We voted 'no' and the rapporteur voted 'yes' and that is where the difference lies. But I do not see why the European Convention on Human Rights is not actually being invoked. Why, then, not a sea of other conventions? I mean, what exactly is it that makes it the disability convention? You could imagine anything else. And I am fully aware that Enhedslisten would have liked to have made this a Convention issue so that as many citizenships as possible can be given. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104128	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104130	Well, I agree that this is the agenda behind it. There can be little doubt about that. But whether the Left had voted yes or no to the committee sending that letter, the result would be exactly the same. For Enhedslisten can simply send a committee question and ask for assistance to clarify whether or not these cases are in breach of the Disability Convention. No one can prevent that. I can't stop Mr. Keating either. Christian Langballe in taking the floor or not taking the floor or voting one or the other. Well, there are just things that are out of your hands and that you have no influence on. And then it doesn't make sense to fight windmills.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104216	Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104218	This is not really so much a question, because I would just like to say to the rapporteur of the Left that I experienced the same thing that the rapporteur of the Left saw at yesterday's meeting. I do not think it is so fair to try to draw a different picture of what has happened in a closed and confidential meeting, but we may have to turn it over in committee afterwards. Then I would just like to sign that the Left also says so clearly that it is desirable that we have a settlement in this area. That is what we want from the Social Democrats. It is therefore a requirement that takes many years to qualify, and for that reason it is a good thing that it is a conciliation, but also because it is something absolutely fundamental. I think there must be some tranquillity and dignity about achieving citizenship. So a receipt that, like the Social Democrats, the Left wants there to be a settlement, and then it should also be possible for us to sit at the table and close a settlement on these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104307	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104309	Thank you for that, and I might not be so surprised to agree with that. After all, a conciliation would also have the effect of abolishing the zigzag course that has previously taken place. What happened earlier was that as soon as the Social Democrats came to power and were pressured by their parliamentary majority to make another agreement, applications from all those whom we under the bourgeois government led by Anders Fogh Rasmussen had refused to grant citizenship. We had them carried up in moving boxes in moving boxes! That is the only thing that can be achieved by not tying the Socialists in the form of a conciliation. We are not achieving anything by this, at least nothing positive. The only thing we achieve is something negative. So I still think it's really, really a shame that we didn't have a settlement, and I also think it's really a shame that the Danish People's Party apparently regards this as a theatre show instead of trying to assert its influence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104416	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104418	I think I will not go into the controversy in relation to what happens when social democrats gain power. I'm just gonna ask Mr. Knox. Jan E. Jørgensen to nod in the affirmative that the many extra cases we got that I assume Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also recognizes that a whole lot of new employees were employed because we have had a common ambition. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has even, when he was last in opposition, demanded that there should be a very, very low service target for that processing time. After all, we have employed quite a number of new employees who could bring down the processing time. So it's part of that picture. And then I would just like to welcome our common position that there should be a conciliation in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104500-2	It is quite true that the many moving boxes, among other things. It was due to the fact that a case had been built up. Then there were more employees, and then that case punk had to go away, and that meant, of course, that the committee had a lot of cases sent over. That part of the story is absolutely correct. But it doesn't matter what happens to the cases that are in the moving boxes: whether the people then get citizenship or they don't get citizenship. There we could only see that then a majority of the committee agreed to give these people citizenship. You could look at a lot of them, that it was people who had applied several times earlier • back from 2001. Some had sought 5, 6, 7, 8 times, and they had received all the 5, 6, 7, 8 times, but now they got yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104540	Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104542	Thank you. I would like to know whether the Left is prepared to open negotiations to see if we can agree on some new, tighter criteria so that it will be more difficult to become a Danish citizen so that we can get the number of Danish citizens down.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104559	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104601	Now I do not know whether the Danish People's Party wants to be convened for the negotiations, because now the agreement that lies has just been terminated. So, of course, you have to make that up to yourself. But that is to say, it is clear from the government base, and therefore it cannot be a surprise that the government wants to look at the criteria for obtaining Danish citizenship. What matters first of all is that we have seen few examples of people who, as such, meet the criteria of today; they can Danish, they are self-supporting, they have not committed crime, etc. But they are anti-democratic, anti-randomist in their behavior, etc. And if you can turn some model together so that you can avoid giving Danish citizenship to people who are declared enemies of Denmark and Danish values, that would be fantastic. So we'd like to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104658	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104700	It would be very good if we could agree on criteria that reduce the number of people who acquire Danish citizenship, because it is very high in the view of the Danish People's Party. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen is allowed to answer whether the exercise that the government is prepared to undertake is about establishing criteria that will bring down the number. I would like to know whether the Left is prepared to do so, namely that the number will be reduced. Then I would like to make a comment on this about conciliation or voting agreement. It must be borne in mind that there are advantages and disadvantages to a settlement. The disadvantage of conciliation is that all parties have a right of veto, so if there is suddenly agreement among the majority of the Folketing that they want to tighten the criteria, make it more difficult to obtain Danish citizenship, the Social Democrats can veto and block it even if there is a majority in the Folketing that wants it. So there are pros and cons. But I would like to have Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen answers whether the Left will work to reduce the number of people who acquire Danish citizenship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104751	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104752	There are pros and cons. The Left would like to reduce, for example, the number of asylum seekers coming to Denmark. We have done this quite considerably. But what we are talking about here are people who are already here. We can't do that on or off. The Left therefore finds it gratifying that it is positive that many who are integrated are well integrated, who have taken Danish values to heart, who have learned the rather difficult Danish language. Danish is one of the hardest languages to learn all over the world. They support their children, make sure they send them to school, make sure they become Danes. We therefore find it gratifying that those who come, take root, become integrated, become Danes rather than living in parallel societies, rather than still having only their foreign background. We find that gratifying. So I cannot quite follow the premise that the number of people we give citizenship should be so interesting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104849	Then it's Mrs. Karen J. Klint, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104852	Thank you. I would also like to sign for the last reply from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says that when we talk numbers, it is in relation to new arrivals and how we receive asylum seekers. When we talk about numbers in relation to people who are qualified and have trained to become Danish citizens, it is something else. Then it is something different and much more objective that needs to be done. And as one of those who has read many of the cases in the moving boxes and have been through them, I also think I have gained a knowledge of how very many people, despite some challenges from home due to war or illiteracy, invest in learning Danish and getting into our country. So what we can learn from the many cases that we have read here over the last few years is also how we can do better, so that it becomes easier to integrate into Danish society. That is what we can use the amount of cases for, and not to beat each other on top of the head, as to whether we have made the right or wrong decisions for some party reasons. We can actually learn from the many cases. So this was more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104957	Here you go, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505104958	Thank you for that and thank you for that comment. These are two different debates, as Mrs Karen J. Klint also mentioned. So, one goes on how many people come to Denmark, and the other goes on what we do to those who have already come to Denmark. There we find it gratifying that those who have come to Denmark are integrated, become Danes and learn Danish. I think that we should all have an interest in and a pleasure in the fact that some people simply think Denmark is so lovely a country that they want to be Danish citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105030	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105046	First of all, congratulations to the people whose names are now on the bill that we are discussing today: the people who are now becoming Danish citizens. A lot of them have lived here all their lives or at least been here for very, very many years, and a lot of them have really puffed to get through the needle's eye, which I think is too small. I find it too difficult to become a Danish citizen. These people have really worked hard for it. Congratulations to them! In this debate, it is a goal for the Danish People's Party that it is clear that fewer people get Danish citizenship. I do not share that approach and I do not really understand it either. I very much agree with Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, when he says that it must then be an independent goal that the people who live in Denmark and have their lives here integrate and become part of Denmark. And one way to become a part of Denmark is to get a Danish citizenship. I certainly have no wish that there should be a very large group of people in Denmark, that there should be a large group of people living here with us in Denmark who are not Danish citizens and who are thus, for example, Danish citizens. is cut off from voting for parliamentary elections, which is, of course, a relatively important part of Danish democracy. On the contrary, I think it is fantastic if as many of us as possible, who live and live here in Denmark, are full members of the community and, for example, in Denmark. also has the opportunity to vote in parliamentary elections. I don't think that's just for the benefit of the individual who's lucky enough to get through that needle's eye and get the red beet passport. I also think it is to the benefit and joy of society as a whole that we are inclusive. Some people then ask me: why is it really important to become a Danish citizen? 'Cause it's not about whether you can live here or not, like mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also said on the platform a moment ago. The people we are talking about here have lived in Denmark for many years, and some of them were born here. Why is citizenship so important? Yes, it is for at least three reasons. One is really about the feeling of being recognised as a full member of Danish society. When I meet new Danish citizens on the citizenship day here at Christiansborg, which we have once a year... we have just had it... this is exactly the thing about feeling like being recognised something that means a lot to these people. I can understand that. They think: Now I am told that now I am a real Dane; I have been cared for. The second reason why citizenship is important is that it provides the opportunity to vote for parliamentary elections and participate fully in Danish democracy, and the third is that it allows for travel. Unfortunately, I often get inquiries from young people who are prevented from going on a high school study trip or prevented from going on an exchange because they do not have Danish passports and thus there are a number of countries for which a visa cannot be obtained. The Danish passport is probably something of the very best you can have if you want to travel around the world. So also in relation to the possibility of travelling abroad, the Danish passport is very good. Then conventions are being discussed today, and that is not a new discussion. The Danish People's Party says that they are governed by conventions. There are a number of conventions which affect the granting of citizenship. That is, for example, the case. The stateless Convention, the Children's Convention and the Disability Convention. The Danish People's Party makes it sound as if there are some people in some country or in some institution far away from us here in the Folketing and us here in Denmark and decides that now we have to give some people citizenship. It should be borne in mind that the conventions which Denmark has signed up to, we have signed up to completely on a voluntary basis. It is, of course, a majority in the Danish Parliament that has decided here and said: we think the stateless convention is a good idea; we think it is good to combat statelessness; we want to join the stateless convention. It is a majority in the Danish Parliament that has decided to join the disability convention. It is a majority in the Danish Parliament that has decided to join the UN Children's Convention. So there is no outsider who has forced us to do anything. It is a majority in the Folketing that has decided that these rules of the game, these conventions, we want to be a part of. The Danish People's Party may then disagree with this, and then they can make suggestions in Parliament that Denmark should withdraw from these conventions. But, as I said, no one is forcing Denmark to live up to human rights; we ourselves have decided to do so. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate those who now have citizenship. I wish the needle eye was bigger. I would, for example. wishing that children born in Denmark automatically got a Danish citizenship or at least got it in a few years. But congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105622	Sir. Christian Langballe has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105628	I mean, I totally agree that the needle eye needs to be made bigger. I would perhaps go as far as to say that I actually think Enhedslisten thinks there should be no needle eye at all. But that is something completely different. I would really like to hear about such different things regarding the conditions for citizenship. What does it take to obtain Danish citizenship? If a person is suspected of being a threat to the security of the realm, should he, according to Enhedslisten, have citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105709	If you are convicted of terrorism, we think it makes sense not to have Danish citizenship. And if you are accused, suspected, we think it is reasonable that the procedure should be brought to a standstill. However, if it is people that Special Branch is looking at, but where no charges have been made, we actually think it is a legal problem to prevent them from obtaining citizenship. And it is because it is part of the rule of law, part of a community governed by the law, that you cannot just say by the authorities: we think that you may have done something criminal, or it might be that you would do it, but we do not charge you. We think it makes sense that it is in the courts that are being judged.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105809	Here you go, sir. Christian Langballe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105811	This means that if a person is planning a terrorist attack inside City Hall Square and PET and the police are monitoring this planning, but not raising charges, then according to Enhedslisten, is it okay for him to get citizenship?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105837	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105838	If PET and the police know that someone is planning a terrorist attack on the City Hall Square or elsewhere in Denmark, then I hope that action will be taken and that charges will be brought. In that case, it is clear that the procedure must be stopped. And according to the Norwegian interpretation of the stateless Convention, all the evidence suggests that this can be done. In addition, there is this rather special discussion about the stateless convention, because even if you are a Danish citizen and you commit some kind of terrorist act, you have to be punished regardless of what you do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105924	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505105926	Thank you. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says that she wants the eye of the needle to be made bigger. Can we not agree that what Enhedslisten wants is for us to have a barn gate instead of a needle eye? I certainly have the merit of seeing Enhedslisten vote no to a derogation application. But what I really want to ask is: how much crime is required, in the view of Enhedslisten, in order that you cannot obtain Danish citizenship or at least you must have a waiting period in order to obtain Danish citizenship, so if it was Enhedslisten who was able to determine the criteria?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110006	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110008	I think it is a problem that if you commit crime at the age of 18, it can mean that you cannot get Danish citizenship at the age of 65 either. I think it is fair enough that there is a waiting period if you commit crime and, of course, the length of that waiting period must be determined by the seriousness of the crime. But the fact that you are completely cut off from ever having citizenship does not in fact seem to me to be escaping from the fundamental idea of the rule of law, namely that once you have endured your punishment, yes, you have finished your punishment unless it is terrorism, because then I think it is actually sensible that you should be cut off forever. But I have to say that I really do not think that, for example. the recent tightening up is escaping with the fundamental idea of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110112	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110115	Well, let me ask you a little more specifically: if a foreigner in Denmark at the age of 18 commits murder or rape, how long does Enhedslisten think it should take before he can become a Danish citizen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110133	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110134	We have not written down in a programme of principles: so and so long must the waiting period be if, for example, there is one. has been committed murder. As I said, it makes sense for there to be a waiting period and it must also be long. But I do not think it makes sense for a person who commits crime at the age of 18 to be cut off from the Danish passport forever. The discussion is not, of course, whether to stay in Denmark or not, because we are talking about people, many of whom will be born in Denmark and thus have such an attachment that they can never be expelled. This means that the discussion is not whether they should be in Denmark or not. They're gonna be here their whole lives. Are they to be cut off from citizenship forever? No, I don't think that's very Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110221	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110230	Thank you. I also believe that I will close the written speech and speak into the debate that is going to take place. In the Liberal Alliance, we also believe that it is a huge privilege to become a Danish citizen. It must be difficult to get a Danish passport. We can discuss whether we have found the right balance with the agreement that is now in place, and that is a good question. We can hear that Enhedslisten believes that it is too difficult to become a Danish citizen that the Danish People's Party believes that it is too easy to become a Danish citizen, and we are probably closer to the Danish People's Party than the Enhedslisten. It is also the government's policy that we will tighten up the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship. This will mean that there will be fewer Danish citizens. I still think it is a good day in that it is a pleasure to welcome new Danes to our society. This is, of course, with the hope that they will join our formal fellowship, but also what can be called a spiritual community, that is, a community characterised by values such as freeness of speech, equality, trust and a complete lack of solemnity, that is, that which means that there is nothing so sacred that you cannot laugh at it. With a Danish citizenship comes both rights and duties. The duties are, among other things, that one is loyal to the constitution, that one can speak Danish, that one shows a positive interest in and knowledge of Denmark, and that one complies with Danish legislation. Among the rights is a formal ticket to take part in democracy, namely the right to vote. To all those who, with this bill, become Danish citizens, I would of course like to congratulate them. I look forward very much to meeting these citizens as active participants in living democracy, of which they formally become part with Danish citizenship. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110449	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110453	It is probably a little out of the Rules of Procedure, but I had to scrap some of my own speech; then I also had the part of the one about our third government party, the Conservatives, backing up the legislative proposal. Unfortunately, they are prevented from attending today. I should like to say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110510	I do not think the rapporteur should answer that, but thank you for that. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. I would just like to say that it is on the verge of being allowed to make such a statement in a brief comment. It should probably happen from the platform. But it's going to be written down, please. Here you go, Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110550	Thank you. I choose today to maintain the speech that I have prepared for, because I still believe that we should stick to the fact that this is a good day for a great many people. So dear new Danes: I am proud and happy to stand here today and congratulate Samir, Mirsa, Jack, Fatma, Anna, Kelly, Wolfgang and all of you who today fully and completely become part of the community that we call Denmark. Today, after a long period of hard work, you have succeeded in becoming an important part of Danish society with the rights and duties that go with it. You will now have participation and the full right to take part in our democratic discussions and our community. I've just been a part of celebrating all of you at the National Day of Parliament. It was a very touching and very festive event, and there was also the opportunity for me to meet many of you personally and talk to you. That is precisely why I know that it has not been easy for you to become Danish citizens, and that is why I would also like to say to you today: you are now Danes, you are not guests. It's not a gift you've been given, so don't go around feeling thankful. For you are Danes, just as I am, and completely like everyone else in this Parliament hall is. I know it means a lot to you, because when you visited us in the Alternative on the citizenship day, we asked you to write on a map what citizenship means to you and all the cards I'm holding here. So I will conclude by saying that you will have the last word and I will read out a few of the cards: Community, belonging to, a good life for my children, home, now I can vote... President I have to say to the rapporteur that it is not good to have effects on the platform). Well, then I'll just read it up, and you know that it's you who wrote this: Democracy and citizenship, love, feeling that I belong, having a voice and having influence in a country that I love. On behalf of the Alternative, I would therefore like to wish you all the best for the future and a great and heartwarming congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110826	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505110839	Thank you for that, President. I think that today's debate may have gotten a little off the rails by suddenly coming to about our committee meeting going and other things, so I will certainly do my best to get the debate back to what this bill is about: the 2,139 people we are giving Danish citizenship with the bill, and with them also 571 children. Some of these people have come to Denmark because of war and persecution; some have come to Denmark because of love. No matter what, they now have the thing in common that they become Danes. Yes, many of them have felt like Danes for a long time, so this is just like the last step, so they also become Danish citizens, are allowed to get a passport and get the opportunity to vote for parliamentary elections. When you look at the list of where the different people were born, there are people from all over the world. There are people from Iraq who are from El Salvador, who are from China, the Philippines, Australia, Nepal, France, just to mention some countries. And, of course, there are all those who were born in Denmark. I'm sorry that some of you have been through a really long processing period. I am even more sorry that there are people with disabilities who, with my radical eyes, should be on the bill, but who have received no from a majority in the Committee on Bodily Rights. But that doesn't change the fact that for the 2,139 people on the bill, it's a party day today. I am glad that you will be part of the Danish community, and I hope to see a lot of you for the citizenship day next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111048	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111059	Thank you. Dear new citizens: Democracy is, among other things, ensuring that the Danish People's Party also has the right to ask the questions they want, but it also gives me the right to complain on behalf of democracy that the Danish People's Party is using this particular case to put a derailed debate on this point in my view. So I would also like to insist on holding my original rapporteur's speech on the proposal for a law on citizenship. With the proposal we are debating today, we can finally congratulate 2,139 new citizens; 2,139 citizens who have chosen to be Danish citizens themselves; 2,139 new citizens who have devoted a great deal of resources to obtaining Danish citizenship. Because even if you can sometimes get the impression that Danish citizenship is something that you easily get, I think that many new Danes have an experience that the road to citizenship goes through a smaller and smaller needle's eye. Danish democracy fills a great deal in the integration efforts of society, and I often find that citizens with different ethnic backgrounds actually know more than the ordinary ethnic Dane when it comes to the democratic rules of the game in society. Many are already actively participating in some of the many associations, which are also part of Danish democracy. Some of you may even be a member of Intercultural Women's Council, whom I visited on Tuesday, some really cool women who, first and foremost, are fighting for women's right to equality, but who also insist on maintaining self-respect and dignity in a sometimes quite rough integration debate. Here I met the woman with the scarf, who insists on being seen as a business owner and contributes to Danish society. I'll be right back. I'm gonna have to ask you to calm down over there. You can argue in the back, and if you argue, it's low. Thank you, I apologise to the rapporteur). It's okay, it was actually nice. President Yeah, right?). Yes. Here I met the woman with the scarf, who insisted on being seen more as a business owner and contributing to Danish society than the woman with the scarf. Kind of like when I, as a health care provider, insist that my knowledge of society is just as important to society as that of the MP who has an education in political science. I also met the woman who insisted that her son should go to private school because she had so far lost the fight to get her son into kindergarten a little further up the street for the fine Danes as she put it. Instead, her son was referred to a kindergarten which alone had bilingual children, and so it was not French which was the second language as she put it. Yes, it is, like when I insist that my children also have the opportunity to go to college, even if their mother didn't. I myself think that we had many more similarities than we had differences, and that is precisely what women insisted on believing, that is to say that we are not just given something, but that we ourselves must fight for equality, for freedom and for democracy. Thank you for joining us. Once again, congratulations to 2,139 new citizens. I hope to meet a lot of you on citizenship day. And, of course, the SF will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111434	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Bodily Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111502	The debate is open, and that is Mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111518	Thank you. I was pleasantly surprised when I first read this bill. It was not so much because the government translates the agreed initiatives in the Finance Act, which are intended to bring order to our asylum centres, it was expected, we support them, and we are pleased with them, but what came as a surprise was the initiative that lies in the proposal to establish professional and independent supervision of the conditions of our children's asylum centres. Because, just as we have had a number of cases of turbulent behaviour on the part of young people in our asylum centres, we have unfortunately also had a number of cases of abuse and failure on the part of staff. The Minister has not shown herself to be as capable of action here as she has when it comes to establishing order and order, and we have criticised that. My party has said from the outset that the best thing we could do to prevent us again from seeing cases like those we have seen at Langeland is to ensure strong and independent supervision of the conditions at our children's asylum centres. Specifically, we have proposed giving the task to the current social oversight. We spent a lot of time discussing this with the Minister last year, in fact also a lot more time than should have been necessary. Despite the fact that for 21⁄2 years the Foreigners' Board had not carried out independent, professional supervision of the operation of the asylum centre at Langeland and despite the many cases and the growing criticism, the Minister maintained that there was nothing really to be done and that the municipalities could supervise themselves, regardless of whether they had financial interests at stake. That is why I was delighted to be surprised when I read the draft law here and found that the Minister had now come up with better ideas. I'd like to sign for that. I have no doubt that this is one of the best things we can do in order to prevent the repetition of the sad cases we have seen. In addition, I also think it is very good that we are now giving staff new powers and increased scope for sanctions, so that we allow the two things to go hand in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111718	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111729	Thank you. The bill is a implementation of the financial law agreement for 2017, which is why I can of course already tell you that it can be supported by the Danish People's Party. We asked for this to be included in the agreement, and it is very good that it is now also being implemented. The bill introduces a duty for the head of a place of residence, that is to say, an asylum centre where minors are staying unaccompanied asylum seekers, to lay down house rules, that is to say, a house order. It will also be possible to sanction asylum seekers if they violate some of the rules that are being laid down, and it is also the case that an opportunity is being created to test whether they are, for example, drug-related at the asylum centre in question. If a minor asylum seeker has an abuse, or if there are specific reasons or some suspicions that make it necessary to carry out such a test, then there will also be the possibility of doing so. Then there will be the possibility of physically addressing some of the underage asylum seekers if it is that they behave in a way that is not acceptable or if it is that they refuse to comply with one of the messages coming from the staff, and that is why the powers of the staff in relation to asylum seekers are generally extended, and we think that is quite appropriate. Then there is also the possibility of examining the asylum seekers concerned for what they have on them, and you can also, if they have a room, investigate it if you consider that there is a need for it. Then it is the case that, in very general cases, they can be placed in a secure 24-hour institution, which in fact means that they will then be detained. As I said, it is part of the 2017 Financial Law Agreement and we think it is quite sensible. It has been a while along the way, but now it is being implemented, which is why we can, of course, support the bill. Then I would say that we would very much like to work on new measures in this area, for example, we think that there should be a general rule that, if there is an asylum centre in which there are minors, for example, there should be an asylum centre. be curfew in the evening hours and night hours and some of the early morning hours. But these are some of the things we are still working on, but of course we can say yes to this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111938	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505111958	Thank you. With this proposal, the Government will implement a number of proposals concerning unaccompanied minors. In 2016, there were several incidents where asylum seekers caused unrest and insecurity in the local areas around asylum centres, and this is obviously not acceptable. It is neither for the residents of the local area nor for the staff of the asylum centres. That is why a number of restrictions have been required in this area. I welcome the fact that with this proposal we will provide staff and the Danish authorities with new tools to deal with those people who do not comply with the rules and house rules at the centres. In concrete terms, the proposal will include: make it compulsory to establish a house order at accommodation establishments where unaccompanied minors are present and to allow penalties to be imposed if house rules are not observed. With the bill, the government will also introduce social supervision at centres where only unaccompanied minors are present. In addition, the proposal will abolish adult education and activation at reception centres. The proposal strengthens the ability of the authorities and centres' staff to maintain order for the benefit of both the staff of the centres and the neighbours and residents of the local area, who have unfortunately been harassed by crime and unrest in some places. Against this background, the Left supports this proposal. Now I should not forget to greet the Conservatives, so I have to resort to untraditional methods: the Conservatives support this bill, but unfortunately are prevented from participating today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505112140	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505112146	When children and young people come to Denmark as unaccompanied asylum seekers, they have often been subjected to massive pressure for a long time, and many come here with some deep traumas. So when they come to Denmark, they come to a society that is often very different from what they have left in their country of origin. That is why I do not find it difficult to understand that some of them are having difficulty adapting and that some are reacting violently and inappropriately. The media have focused on some of the episodes from 2016, which are mentioned in the comments on this bill that we are discussing today, and in this respect I think it is worth noting that not all of these incidents have proved to be what they looked like. In connection with last year's media coverage in the much-mentioned case of the five boys from the now abandoned Center Tullebølle who were charged with rape and defamation at the Langelands Festival in July 2016, it has therefore become clear during the spring that there is no basis for criminal proceedings against them. So they were innocent, which was one of them. has been able to read in Funen County Newspaper. That is not to say that there can be no situations requiring consistent intervention by operators operating children's asylum centres. But when I read this very comprehensively, it has to be said, the 90-page bill, I cannot help but agree with the Children's Conditions, which in their hearing answer writes that the bill, with the many restrictions and sanctions, is based on a small group of difficult, troubled children rather than on the majority of the unaccompanied asylum children. And I agree with the Danish Social Advisor Association, which writes that the bill is characterised by a thinking and a focus that we do not normally have in Denmark when we are talking about children when we are talking about young people. It is a bill dominated by punishment, control, violation of freedoms. We would like to help in Enhedslisten to see if the operators and staff need more tools to solve these conflicts, problems that arise at the centres, but I think it should be based on what the experts and practitioners in the field say they need, and not on some agreement between the government and the Danish People's Party. I would say that this draft law basically surprises me that it is not just following the rules that apply to other children placed in Denmark. Why should there be special rules for children placed in care when they are children of asylum seekers? Actually, I think that's weird. Of the many critical consultation responses of many sides, we can see that the practitioners and experts have very many objections to this bill. Then I would like to say, on the part concerning supervision, that it is a good thing that there is more supervision, because we very much need it, and I think there have been many examples of this, so I would like to praise that part, although I am surprised that we do not let the social inspectorate have the overall responsibility. I would like to ask you about this during the committee's reading. Besides, this bill is kind of a mess shop. It was said in Funen, so if someone didn't hear it when it went a little fast, I said a row-de-store. I think it is a mistake to mix all sorts of things up in a light bulb and turn it into a legislative proposal, because then we will not have a factual debate. For example: an additional proposal has just been put in, which is that asylum seekers, i.e. adults sitting in reception centres, should no longer be offered activation. These are the Red Cross, among others. Very sorry. I think that is a very important discussion, but it has nothing to do with children's centres. I think it is an extremely bad idea from a legislative point of view to mess things up in this way, but we will finally take a position on this proposal for a directive during the committee procedure. We have a number of questions, among others. I would like to know why we are not merely following the rules that apply to children who have been placed. Why should there be special legislation when it is children who have been on the run? We would also like to ask why it is not the Social Protection Agency which has the overall responsibility for supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505112625	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505112632	The aim of the bill is to create peace and order around asylum centres by ensuring that staff have the necessary means of power in relation to unaccompanied minors. The proposal creates a duty for the centres to create a house order and then specifies precisely how to take action against aggressive or unfortunate behaviour. It is also possible to examine a minor foreigner's person or room without a warrant and to perform drug testing. The prerequisite for the reception of refugees must be that the local population does not experience excessive costs in terms of lack of security. That is why it is good and necessary to create a clear framework for acceptable behaviour. At the same time, it is a guarantee for staff that we define very precisely what is permissible in relation to solving the problems. The Liberal Alliance will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505112724	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505112731	Thank you. We are today in the first reading of Bill No. L 204 on the amendment of the law on foreigners, the law on adult responsibility for children and young people placed in care, and the law on social security, which deals with tranquillity and order in accommodations for unaccompanied minors. With the bill, the government wants to ensure peace and order at accommodations for unaccompanied minors by among others. to introduce an obligation to establish house order in the children's centres, the possibility of sanctions in the event of breaches of house order by, inter alia: the withdrawal of allowance, the possibility of using drug tests, physical guidance and physical power, and the right to interfere with the right of the unaccompanied minor to privacy. In addition, a clear legal basis will be introduced to enable both unaccompanied minors with a procedural residence and unaccompanied minors with an illegal stay to be placed in very serious cases, among others. a secure 24-hour institution. There should be no doubt that I think that clarification and clarification of the rules relating to unaccompanied minors who reside in Denmark and are in the custody of the Danish authorities is really, really important. It is important for me to ensure that unaccompanied children and young people receive the same care and security as all other children in Denmark. What I think is really a pity about the draft law is that it seems as if it is another wish that dominates the government's justification for this bill, because it is repeatedly referred to in the draft law that the background to the bill is a series of incidents in which asylum seekers have committed crime and, moreover, created insecurity, which is why there is a need to create order. In line with the Children's Council, the Children's Conditions, the Danish Social Advisor Association and the Legal Policy Association, I do not believe that there is any factual justification for putting this group of unaccompanied children and young people in the light in which they are going to appear. On the contrary, I would like it to be a matter of concern for the children's right to care and protection, and not a very limited group with special support needs, which forms the basis of this legislation, and that, in fact, is what I think the Minister has said several times, namely that it is of course her concern that it is important that there are the same rights for unaccompanied children and young people and that it is important that we ensure their conditions. Nevertheless, in these specific proposals, the Minister has found reason to discriminate between unaccompanied minors and Danish children and young people, since the proposal differs from both the Adult Responsibility Act and the Service Act in key areas. I have to say that I am very concerned because these are two sets of rules that are not yet easy to follow, and I am concerned because we are now creating a parallel set of laws that I fear are really, really difficult to administer. This is inappropriate, both because it means that we are making a real difference between these children and young people, and because it significantly complicates the work for the municipalities of the country, and I think that is clearly seen in the municipal association's hearing answer: they are concerned. They are concerned that the municipalities will make mistakes, not intentionally but unintentionally, because they are extremely complicated regulations. I think it is absolutely crucial that we treat children and young people alike regardless of origin, residence or family relationship, and I find that worryingly absent from this bill. And now I don't see my speaking time, but I have a little bit more. Third Vice-President There is 1 minute and 20 seconds). I've got 1 minute and 20 seconds left. In addition to the fundamental problem of discrimination, I believe that it is counterproductive and obsolete to introduce the possibility of sanctioning unaccompanied children and young people who break house order by depriving them of their pocket money. I think it is quite inappropriate that the provisions of the Services Act should not be applied in relation to compulsory placements, as I have mentioned. We need to ensure the same conditions, we need to ensure that municipalities know how and how to act. So to the positive. I think it is very good that the Minister has taken account of some of the recommendations in the consultation answers, where it is the Social Protection Agency which will in future, in agreement with the Foreigners' Board, have to exercise professional supervision. Then there are a number of points of attention in the draft law, and I think it is important that we take them into account. What I want to learn more about in committee work is, among other things, what the concept of supervision and the agreements between the Foreigners' Agency and the Social Inspectorate will contain more precisely. After all, it is absolutely essential that we be assured that the supervision we want is sufficient and that all essential matters are monitored. In relation to the part of the bill which deals with something quite different, namely adult foreigners who are accommodated in a reception centre, I simply do not understand why it should be involved in this bill at all. I think it is a pity that a legislative proposal that we have agreed on as a starting point should be very good, because we need supervision and rules, is getting involved in this. So round off, I would hope that in the work of the committee we can really learn more about why there are no uniform rules, and I would actually call for us to involve our social rapporteurs in this area, who are the ones who have daily rules on the placement of children and young people, and I would suggest that we have a hearing in committee or what we can agree on, where we invite some people who know something about this, among other things. KL, as I think it is absolutely crucial that we take into account their consultation responses. So in the alternative, we will wait until we have moved a little further in the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505113336	Thanks to Josephine Fock. It was just about to fit in with time. And welcome to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505113345	Thank you. Now, of course, a number of rapporteurs have examined several of the technicalities or perhaps the issues raised in this bill. From the outset, I have suffered as the Socialist rapporteur, that is to say, there is a great deal of controversy about this and, first of all, a great deal of rejection by the Minister regarding the question of whether the children and young people who come to Denmark as refugees are adequately taken care of; also in relation to the question of whether there is clear enough social supervision, so that we ensure that all children and young people who come here as refugees have the same rights as other children. That is, of course, the fundamental thing here, and there must be social supervision of those children, as happens with other children in Denmark, and comparison with this very much placed children. Basically, I am really sorry that we cannot introduce the same rules for refugee children as for all other children. After all, we have had a debate on this from a motion for a resolution in the House on precisely that, and it is difficult for me to understand why these children should not have the same fundamental rights and opportunities and also the right to that protection. But I also agree with the alternative rapporteur and others that it is really, really good that they come here and that there is supervision. I am also very pleased that the Minister has listened to the hearings so that at least the professional part of it is at the Social Inspectorate. I still can't quite understand why it can't just lie there, but it's good. Then I also agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the proposal is quite a mess. Others have also asked why everything about adults in asylum centres should be involved in this. And I also have a number of other questions for the legislative proposal, and I will, of course, ask them in committee as well. I can, for example. Basically, it does not understand why the rules of the Service Act on notification obligations should be waived. There are a few places where I simply find it difficult to understand how this is to be done in practice, and that is what we can see from the consultation answers, that is to say the question of how to administer two different rules and how to ensure clarity. For that was one of the objectives, as the Minister has said in the past, to clarify who has the supervision. I think that the KL's response to the hearing makes it very clear that they are somewhat uncertain about how this should be done, and it is they who have to administer it in practice. On the basis of the bill, I cannot see what criteria or guidelines are for the Social Protection Agency in relation to this either. There is something about any further measures to be taken on the basis of supervision, and it is difficult to see through what it could be and what criteria and guidelines are taken into account. So it is difficult to see the consequences, i.e. how to ensure that children's rights are implemented, and there is also the question of whether it is in line with what I think is quite a lot in the legislative proposal and for which the most time was spent in the initial discussions, namely the sanctions against vulnerable children who have really, really difficult circumstances. It is fair enough that there are parts of it in the proposal, but I just think it is really important to emphasise the rights of the child here, and I would have liked to have seen some progress made. I hope we can move towards what the Alternative's rapporteur brought up, namely that we will have a review of this, preferably with experts and the parties involved. It would be quite obvious that KL was involved, and also the social workers, i.e. the people who have to implement it here in practice, so that we can clarify where the obstacles remain. At first sight, of course, we believe that this is a step in the right direction, but in the Radical Left we would therefore like to see a whole series of issues covered before we have to vote on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505113833	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. And the next rapporteur is Holger K. Nielsen from the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505113846	Our starting point is that this bill addresses some problems that are real and completely concrete in different places. That's why it's very real that the government is playing out with this bill. Like others, as I said, we have sympathy for part of it; there must be a house order and some sanctions. The proportionality of the sanctions proposed here can be discussed. We have noticed that many of the practitioners involved in this area think that this is a very sensible legislative proposal. Others also have some concerns about part of it, including making children in asylum centres a special group compared to other children. Why is this done, and what does it have to do with all the social work and the work of the municipalities on this? I think that is a very real problem, which we also need to discuss in committee. Also in relation to some of the other things that are also put on. So our starting point is positive. I think we will vote in favour of it at the end, but it is clear that we will have to look at what will emerge in committee. That is our approach to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114036	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. No more rapporteurs have joined us, so we move on to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114047	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fine reception that the draft law has actually received today, even though there has been some debate on it. There have been a number of incidents during 2016 in which asylum seekers in asylum centres or in the local area have committed crime and also created insecurity, and we should not accept that. We must therefore ensure that the authorities have the right tools and that they can also use them if necessary. There must be clear rules and a framework for the stay of unaccompanied minors in asylum centres. Unaccompanied minors must also understand that it can have consequences if they do not live up to them and if they do not behave properly. And it must be possible to intervene in cases where each unaccompanied minor has a negative and turbulent behavior. That is precisely what the draft law is about. With the bill, we introduce a duty to draw up house orders for good conduct at the country's children's centres. That's some of it, too, sir. Martin Henriksen mentioned it. And we also introduce the possibility of dragging the unaccompanied minors into their pocket money if they violate the rules. In addition, staff are given the opportunity to intervene against each unaccompanied minor who has aggressive or otherwise negative behaviour. The aim is, after all, to provide staff with clear rules on their ability to intervene against individual minors. Of course, we must always try to stop unwanted behaviour by educational means, but there must be an opportunity to take action, for example. with the use of physical force when conflicts or other aggressive behavior arise. This applies especially to children's centres, where other unaccompanied minors must also be taken into account. The aggressive behaviour of a single minor resident can affect the well-being of many of the other residents, which is why the bill gives staff clear rules to physically guide the minor away from a conflict or to stop a certain behavior. Amongst other things, it is given: We also introduce the possibility of examining the residence of an unaccompanied minor resident, even if there is no prior court order. Then there is a clear legal basis for carrying out a drug test of the unaccompanied minors. Against this background, we believe that staff can prevent unwanted behaviour. In addition, we also introduce rules whereby unaccompanied minors may be placed on, for example, very serious cases. Secured 24-hour institutions. Here we are talking about the serious cases in which the person concerned cannot be dealt with in the context of the accommodation. In addition, we are tightening up the existing system for the cessation or reduction of the financial benefits of unaccompanied minors, and this will, among other things, be done. apply if they do not participate in their own asylum procedures. It will therefore be clear that it can have consequences if you fail to fulfil your obligations, even if you are a minor. While giving more powers to accommodation establishments, we also strengthen the possibility for the National Authority to supervise accommodation sites. It is therefore provided that the Social Protection Agency, on behalf of the Foreigners' Board, carries out professional supervision of the accommodation establishments where unaccompanied minors have been accommodated. I should also like to mention briefly, as I think Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen did, that there will also be an end to adult education and activation in the reception centres. We have already had a thorough debate on the legislative proposal here today, which is why I am not going to mention more of the initiatives than I have already done. In conclusion, I can thank you for your support, which has, of course, been relatively large, but I also understand that some questions have been put forward for the committee's reading, and I look forward to that, of course. In addition, I can mention here that yesterday afternoon I invited all the rapporteurs for a review of the draft law on 11 May, including, among other things. I also know that there are a number of questions about the concept of supervision.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114621	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114627	Thank you, Minister. I would also like to sign for the invitation. What I would like to ask is: why is it that we have chosen a parallel special set of rules instead of just following the rules in this area? Isn't the minister worried about the KL itself stating that the municipalities will have difficulty managing it forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114647	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114650	No, I'm not worried about it, but I think it's better, and I hope then that Mrs. Josephine Fock accepts that we're having a little longer talk about it on 11 May, because it's pretty complicated. There are many nuances and corners in this, and that is exactly why I have invited you to a meeting of the Ministry, because I am well aware that this is complicated material to sit with as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114724	Yeah, but I'm just gonna sign for that. I look forward to that, thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114728	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. However, I have to tell you that the Conservative People's Party has felt covered by the Left, which is why they have not participated in the negotiations. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114814	The debate is open and the first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505114827	It is no secret that I have great sympathy for the proposalers' desire for a strict and consistent approach to criminal asylum seekers. The government looks very seriously at asylum seekers who commit crime during their stay here in Denmark. Foreigners seeking asylum in this country are offered food, security, security, while their application is dealt with by the authorities, and asylum seekers must also, of course, comply with the rules that apply here in Denmark. Foreigners who commit crime basically do not belong in Denmark at all. It is quite unacceptable that some foreigners come to Denmark to seek asylum, but then abuse their stay to commit crime. Having said that, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, partly because the government has already taken the initiative to look at the possibility of further tightening the rules for criminal asylum seekers, and I will discuss this a little later, partly because, in the view of the government, the proposal would run counter to Denmark's international obligations on several points. First of all, let me explain why it will not be possible to suspend the asylum procedure immediately if the asylum seeker commits crime. Stopping asylum treatment before it is clear whether the asylum seeker should be recognised and protected as a refugee would be contrary to our international obligations. It is a commitment that, among other things, is. is provided for in the Refugee Convention, which requires Member States to protect refugees in accordance with stated principles and standards. In this context, let me stress that there should be no doubt that the government is prepared to go to the edge of our international conventions and agreements. However, if, during his stay in this country, an asylum seeker commits something criminal, this cannot lead to the automatic suspension of asylum procedures. On the other hand, this may have an impact on the assessment of whether the person concerned can obtain asylum in Denmark. A foreigner who is sentenced to a sentence of liberty and who is suspended for entry is already excluded from receiving asylum in Denmark in accordance with the rules in force, unless there are very specific reasons for granting asylum. For this reason, it can be said that the motion for a resolution does not actually contribute to so much new things if we are to put it at the forefront. Basically, in many cases, it is more about whether, contrary to our international obligations, asylum treatment will be suspended completely in the event of crime or whether, after a thorough procedure, asylum will be refused on the basis of the crime that has then been committed. As I have also said several times on previous occasions, I very much agree that more criminal foreigners should be expelled from Denmark. It was also against this background that the former Left Government tightened the rules on expulsion, and in relation to administratively expelled asylum seekers, I believe that a consistent and determined effort is already being made towards this particular target group. Decisions on administrative expulsion are taken by the Foreign Affairs Council, and they do so on all the days of the year, in fact also on weekends and on public holidays, I can say to the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, Mr. Martin Henriksen. So we are reacting immediately today to foreigners who commit minor crimes. In relation to the wish of the Danish People's Party to extend the group of foreigners who can be expelled because of less serious crime, I can inform you that this is one of the main themes of the working group which will be set up in connection with gang package III. The working group will look at the possibilities of expanding the administrative group. I think that is something that the Danish People's Party is comfortable with. I would now like to turn to the part of the proposal concerning criminal asylum seekers who cannot be expelled because they are at risk of being tortured and persecuted in their country of origin. Here, the authors of the motion for a resolution want to see the detention and surveillance of foreigners on a tolerated basis until such time as the expulsion is possible or until they leave voluntarily. Let me stress once again that foreigners living in Denmark are undesirable, and let me also remind you that not very long ago we made a number of improvements to the conditions for foreigners staying on toiled. We have among other things. We have introduced an obligation to inform, we have tightened up the penalties for breaching the obligations imposed and introduced an ankle-book service in the exit centres, and then we have introduced the possibility of incarceration of persons in custody who are seriously violating their obligations, and so the government has not, it must be said, been on the lazy side when it comes to the control of foreigners on tolerated residences on the contrary, and this is fortunately something we have carried out with the Danish People's Party. As the authors are also aware, Denmark's international obligations set limits on our ability to detain foreigners on toiled stays. In short, our international commitments mean that we can only detain foreigners who do not have the right to be here if there is a prospect that they can actually be sent out of the country. This applies, of course, to foreigners on toiled stays, who are in this country for the very reason that they cannot be sent out because, for example, they are in the country. are subjected to torture or persecution. That's why we can't go to detention. This does not, however, alter the fact that foreigners on toiled stays should be sent as soon as possible, nor does it alter the fact that the possibilities for broadcasting should be examined on an ongoing basis. The Foreign Affairs Agency is already doing that today. Every six months there is a thorough examination of the cases of people who are on toiled and, if it turns out that they can return home and that this is an opportunity, we can do so. In addition, the government looks at the possibility of using so-called diplomatic assurances. The use of diplomatic assurances could make it possible to send a foreigner on tolerated residences. However, I would like to say here that the use of diplomatic assurances is very difficult, and it should therefore be no secret that this is an area of limited scope, but I would say that it is certainly something we must look at and we must try to do so. Finally, let me turn to the part relating to the proposal to strengthen the possibility of detention of rejected asylum seekers and criminals who can well be sent out of the country. Here we tightened the rules as much as possible in November 2015 together with the Danish People's Party, among other things, and the tightening means that the police should, as far as possible, detain asylum seekers, unless this is contrary to our international obligations. So it is not possible to tighten up the rules further. Instead, it's about getting the broadcasts started. The more possibilities for deployment arise, the more we can then be held in detention. And yes, I think this government has actually done more than any other government in this area. Aliens are being deployed. There has been a call for a broadcast sambass door, and in my own ministry a special unit has been set up to work on getting as much as possible sent out into this group. Finally, it is important to keep in mind that it is also about values and morality. For this reason, asylum seekers also take part as a starting point in an asylum-seeking course, which includes: The aim is to provide asylum seekers with a knowledge of Danish culture and social conditions. Especially for children in the asylum centres, education is focused on democracy and freedom of spirit, among other things, which is intended to ensure both an understanding, but also a co-responsibility of the rights and duties on which we have built Denmark. Finally, I would like to say that I fully agree with the need for consistent action against criminal asylum seekers. The government cannot then support this motion for a resolution. This is partly due to the fact that the government already has a strong focus on the fight against crime among asylum seekers. This is also the reason why there is already a zero tolerance of crimes committed at or in connection with asylum centres, and this is also why the government has recently tabled a bill on order and order. This is what we have just discussed at the asylum centres of the country where unaccompanied minors have been accommodated. This determined effort must, of course, be continued. In addition, the motion for a resolution also contains a number of elements which would be directly contrary to Denmark's international obligations. However, I am grateful that the proposal has been put forward because it actually also allows us to discuss some of the major challenges we face when it comes to criminal asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505115914	Thank you, Minister. Sir. Martin Henriksen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505115918	Oh, my God, the Minister mentioned the international commitments many times. Is the Minister really so fond of them? The Minister says that the rules have been tightened as far as possible within the conventions and that no more can be done to arrest criminals who rejected asylum seekers or do more to stop their asylum cases if they are caught committing crime. So the question is: does the Minister think that this is a reasonable legal situation? We can discuss whether this is the state of law. But it is then the government's view that this is the way it is, and that is how it should be. Does the Minister think that's fair? Is that where the government believes the border is: there is simply nothing more to be done to get after the criminal asylum seekers we have done what we can; there is no more possibility? Is this an acceptable legal situation, in the view of the Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120010	In any case, I can see that this is precisely the state of law. I can wonder sometimes. But I am extremely surprised that you can come here as an asylum seeker and then abuse ours, you can say hospitality and willingness to take care of these people by thanking some crime. I simply do not understand that. But I can say that it can also have consequences for whether or not asylum is ultimately granted. Then you can scold the international conventions, and you can also try to change them. However, it has to be said that there are international obligations. This is something Denmark has signed. We have said, as a government, that we are fulfilling the international commitments that we have signed up to until they may be changed. But we're at the edge of what we can do. But I would like to stress that if you commit a serious form of crime, you cannot have asylum in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120109	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120111	However, asylum treatment is continuing, and there are some who are committing various forms of crime which are still going to be granted asylum in Denmark. That is the reality. The state of law: Who creates the state of law? That's what the Folketing does. Of course, the courts also have jurisdiction, but the law comes from the Danish Parliament. So, in this Parliament, we can, of course, adopt legislation that says that we can go further if there is a majority in favour of it. Then you can have a political desire that you should not go further. But when I listen to the Minister, I get the impression that the Minister wants to go further; that the Minister wants more to be done to get better control of, for example, criminal asylum seekers. And then the question is: will you make new assessments, new interpretations that will allow you to go further here in the Folketing? Or are we going to work to amend the conventions so that it is beyond doubt that we can go further?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120202	I fully agree with the rapporteur that my desire to tighten things up in this area is quite great. I do not think the rapporteur is surprised either. But I also accept that at the time Denmark signed some international commitments which we are obliged to comply with. And as long as the conventions are as they are, and Denmark has signed them as they are now, well then we must abide by them. But that does not change the fact that we have, in fact, together tightened up the rules for asylum seekers coming to Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120245	Thank you, Minister. Then we go to the rapporteurs, but before we do so, I would say that we have invested in an electronic clock that does not always work well. That's why it's gonna happen for the rest of the day... at least while I'm here... that when I stand up carefully, it's about. Ten seconds to go. It is not to show extra respect for the fellow Member; it is primarily to give the signal that now is the end of time. Then when I leave, it's not because I have a cold, it's because time has passed. I do not want to destroy the rapporteur's speeches, but I would also like us to try to find a proper framework for speaking time. Here you go, sir. Dan Jørgensen from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120328	It must not be easy to sit in that chair. Third Vice-President It is a pleasure! ) I shall try to be very brief. The Social Democrats share the wish of the proposers that a consistent line be taken against asylum seekers and other foreigners who commit crime in Denmark. Criminal foreigners who abuse their stay in our country to commit crime have nothing to do in Danish society. They must be deported and sent home. That is why the Social Democratic Party has also been involved in tightening up the rules on expulsion, and that is why we have helped to reach an agreement on more stringent controls on people staying on board. Social democracy also has a desire that illegal immigrants who abuse the asylum system for their stay in this country, either to work illegally or to commit other crime, should meet with consequences and be sent out, because they undermine the asylum system for all those who actually need protection. However, we do not support a resolution that would punish a person without being put before a judge. If we do what the proposers propose and short-circuit the asylum procedure, we really do not know whether we are sending a person to death or back to torture where he comes from. That is precisely why we have built up an asylum system, and we must safeguard that. We have signed the Refugee Convention and it forbids us to send people to persecution, torture or death. So that is, of course, another strong argument. We stand by that. The same applies to the proposal that criminal asylum seekers who cannot be sent by Denmark should be detained until a possible expulsion. The Minister explained well the problems that will be involved, and we agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120515	There is a brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120518	Thank you. After all, our proposal has been arranged in a way that may have Mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party, to say that it may be very good anyway: if the authorities consider that you are in danger of being expelled to a country where you may be subjected to torture or political persecution, you will not be sent out, but you will be detained until the day on which deployment is possible or until you leave voluntarily. Would it not be a model which the Social Democratic Party seems reasonable? The alternative is, of course, that these people who may have committed very serious crimes go around in the Danish society.I was just about to say forever.At some point in time we know that if they have been sentenced for example, their sentence and come to terms with it goes on for a while, and suddenly the demands attached to their stay in Denmark are loosened, and thus they actually run freely in the Danish society, even though they are actually very criminal, and even if they are not allowed to be here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120608	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120609	Now the questioner asks a normative question about what I think is reasonable. In other words, I agree with what is implicit in the question, namely that it is probably not entirely reasonable to see examples of people walking around in society in the way described by the questioner. And yes, it's probably unfair that you can't send them home, but there are cases where you can't do it. Sometimes the legislation is put together in such a way that it is not entirely reasonable in the specific cases, and this is the kind of situation we are in now, because we are subject to some international conventions that make us have problems sending those people home.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120651	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120652	Thank you. But can the rapporteur confirm that it is the view of the Social Democratic Party that consideration of international conventions is more important than consideration of ensuring law and order in Danish society? This is more important than the consideration of ensuring that the foreigners who have actually been expelled from Danish society cannot simply run freely in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120714	I do not want to put it that way, of course, since there are two things to be said. Firstly, the world is a better place because we have rules and standards and international conventions. It is rather a strange argument that one should try to secure a more orderly world by breaking rules and laws, so no, of course I do not agree with that part. Now the President stands up; there may be a follow-up question. There are 10 seconds left!): I will let the questioner come up with a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120750	There are no more questions, so it's over! And now it's over for Mr. Kim. Dan Jørgensen. Thank you so much for your efforts. The next rapporteur we welcome is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen for the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505120801	Thank you. Let me begin by conveying a message from the Conservative People's Party which cannot be present today but which supports the rejection by the Left of the Danish People's Party's motion for a resolution. When we reject it, it is not because we disagree with the title •A consistent line against asylum seekers who commit crime in Denmark •A consistent line against asylum seekers. So does the government, and the government does. Denmark has a consistent line against asylum seekers who commit crime in Denmark, which, perhaps for many, should be referred to as criminals seeking asylum in Denmark, because unfortunately many come to commit crime on the basis of an asylum application. Unfortunately, that is the reality. This is not in every way in order or in order for all asylum seekers who come to seek asylum and not to commit crime. So we can agree with the intention. It is quite unreasonable that asylum seekers first seek to find security and protection from war and persecution and then say thanks by breaking the law and committing crime. But despite the fact that we agree with the intentions behind the tough and consistent line against criminals, we cannot therefore support the proposal. This is due, among other things, to: the international commitments that we mentioned earlier. But the international commitments are also the expression of principles of the rule of law, which we are proud of in Denmark, among others. That you're not guilty until you're convicted by a judge. The motion for a resolution speaks, among other things. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is aware of the fact that he is not in a position to answer the questions put to him by the President-in-Office of the Council. I guess it's pretty fresh. So, as the Minister also mentioned, the government has already tightened the rules quite significantly with regard to criminal foreigners and asylum seekers and has also taken the initiative to tighten up further in this area. So, we have some sympathy for the intentions, but the use of the tools put in place will be contrary to both our rule of law in Denmark and the international legal order, and therefore the Left cannot support the proposal. At the same time, however, the Left is very pleased with the austerity already carried out by the government and the government's efforts to tighten up the rules for criminal asylum seekers. However, the bottom line, which I do not think surprises the Danish People's Party, is that we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121044	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121046	Thank you. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen said that this thing with administrative expulsions was quite fresh, but can Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen does not confirm that there is already the possibility in foreign law that people can be expelled administratively, including people who have committed crime? We are proposing to extend the scope for expelling people administratively. So I assume that the Left backs the possibilities that already exist in the legislation in relation to being able to expel foreigners in certain cases also criminal aliens administratively. I assume that the Left can confirm that that legislation is still being backed up. In this light, is it all the way out in the woods to work to see if there can be new opportunities to make it easier to expel criminal aliens administratively?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121131	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121131-2	I guess I haven't explained myself well enough. In other words, there is the possibility of administrative expulsion, but this can only be done after you have been convicted. In cases where people are administratively expelled for having committed crime, it has first been established that they have committed crime. It is not just the case that an official can establish that you have committed crime even if you have been caught red-handed, that is to say, you have to be right around a judge, so that it can be established that crime has been committed before you can be expelled. It may be a detail, but the motion for a resolution also does not say whether there is a bottom line on what crime the Danish People's Party believes should trigger these sanctions. I assume we agree that it is not if you have crossed a red light, but that something more needs to be done. This is not clear from the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121218	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121220	There is, of course, a possibility today, in some cases, that people can be expelled administratively if they have committed crime, even without having first passed a judge. After all, these opportunities exist in the legislation, and we then propose to extend them. But I would like to ask: is the view of the Left that every time there is a legal assessment that makes it impossible to go further within the international conventions, we must always comply with it? Does not the Left even wish to challenge the conventions and begin to interpret them differently? We often see it • sometimes there comes a legal assessment that says that you can interpret something in a way, and then it can take one year, and then there comes a legal assessment that says that you can interpret it in a different way. Does the Left wish to challenge the international conventions, or does it just want every time there is an assessment, to clap their heels together and say: then we do not do anything that we would otherwise find reasonable?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121308	I will say this very briefly: the conventions that we have signed have, of course, been signed because we agree with them. We believe that they contribute to an international legal order... let us be clear. But then there are some conventions that are inappropriate. We've got one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a few comments on the status of stateless persons, who have some shortcomings in them, which means that, in some cases, we have had to grant citizenship to persons who have been suspected by PET of planning terrorism. We find that very regrettable, and that is why we are doing what we can to change the interpretation or content of that convention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121354	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments and we welcome Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121403	The Enhedslisten cannot support the motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party. We do not believe that there is a need to tighten up the already very strict rules. In addition, we are so happy to live in a state governed by the rule of law, and in a state governed by the rule of law all people are entitled to a fair trial. The Danish People's Party's proposal means that people can stop their asylum treatment and then be expelled administratively if the police believe that they have done something illegal. As I said, in the Enhedslisten we are happy to live in a rule of law, and that also means that it is not the police who are judging, but that it is the courts who are judging. The proposal of the Danish People's Party also means, if I read them correctly, that there is no such lower limit to the type of crime that can lead to an asylum treatment being stopped and that one must be sent out of the country. I would like to say that I am, for example. I also think that bicycle thieves should be punished, but I do not think it would be fair to send them to death or to imprison them for life, and both can be the consequence of this proposal. Because if we send people from Denmark without completing their asylum case, we risk sending them back to the death penalty or torture, and if they are detained until expulsion is possible, we are in fact in danger of being detained for life. I would like to say once again that I am, for example. It seems to me that bicycle theft is incredibly bad, it is bad style and rude and everything else, and you have to be punished if you steal a bike, but being sent to the death penalty or being detained for life, I do not think it is proportionate. The Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal. I would just like to make a brief comment on the issue of human rights and international conventions. Firstly, I do not think that human rights are a bad thing. I think human rights are a good thing. They are such a bottom-up level of what rights we as people have throughout the world, and they exist because we have seen examples that states can treat their own citizens very, very badly. That's one thing. The other thing is that on the Danish People's Party it always sounds as if human rights and international conventions are something that is being stuffed in the necks of Denmark, and that we stand with our arms tied on our backs and can do nothing, and we just have to follow those conventions, but Denmark has quite voluntarily joined the UN conventions, and Denmark has voluntarily joined the European Convention on Human Rights, because a majority in the Danish Parliament thinks it is a good idea. No one is forcing us to follow human rights, but we have decided that we want to, and we are working in the world to make more countries respect human rights. We do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121725	Thank you to Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen and welcome to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121732	Thank you. This proposal aims to take more consistent action against criminal asylum seekers by ensuring that asylum procedures are stopped by crime so that they can be expelled. In the Liberal Alliance we basically do not think that criminal foreigners should have anything to do in Denmark. This applies particularly to asylum seekers. When you, as asylum seekers, ask for help in claiming that you have fled from terrible conditions, crime is an expression of an incredible lack of respect for the recipient country. We therefore share the ambition of the proposers to do as much as possible to ensure that criminal asylum seekers are expelled as soon as possible. However, we must note that while crime can be allowed to influence a decision on whether or not asylum is granted, it cannot be stopped without breaking Denmark's international obligations, whether you like it or not. If we believe that it is time to update conventions from the 1950s to the reality of the 21st century, then we have great sympathy for this view. The conventions were based on quite different asylum patterns from those we are seeing today. Today there is a need for an international legal basis that balances the humanitarian needs of the refugees with the right of the recipient countries not to be burdened with unreasonable burdens, including the treatment of criminal asylum seekers with velvet gloves. However, the Liberal Alliance does not believe that the conventions should be broken unilaterally here, and we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121909	A brief comment from Mr. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121912	Thank you. I remember something about the fact that there was a time when the Liberal Alliance was not in government, and there was a lot of talk about the international conventions. It may well be that you did not talk about breaking them, but at least you talked about interpreting them differently. However, when I hear the government's announcement today and also a little what Mrs Lindahl says, it is said that the conventions are as they are, and therefore we cannot do anything. But I would like to know whether it is still the view of the Liberal Alliance that we should at least look at interpreting the conventions differently, and if that continues to be the view of the Liberal Alliance, is it something that we can count on the government at some point in time as a whole also incorporate as their opinion, because at least there is a majority in favour of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505121955	As mentioned in the speech, we in the Liberal Alliance are also concerned with updating conventions made in the 1950s to the 21st century, when we see other refugee patterns than we did at that time. That is what we think makes sense, and that is the position of the Liberal Alliance. It's not the government's position yet, but it's the position of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122022	One might be tempted to ask for a timetable, but I do not. But I would like to wish the Liberal Alliance every success in convincing the other parties in the government that this should be the line. Then I would like to ask whether Mrs Laura Lindahl has any idea of what kind of conventions the Liberal Alliance thinks should be updated or interpreted differently. Is it the European Convention on Human Rights? Is that the refugee convention? What conventions are we talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122056	It is clear that when we talk about the new patterns that are in relation to the refugee convention, it is absolutely essential that we get it updated because we just have some new trends, some other currents. Of course, we need to talk about the right to protection for those who need it, but we also need to look at the fact that the recipient countries face some challenges, some heavy burdens, in these years, and the recipient countries must be able to deal with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122122	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl and welcome to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122130	Thank you. This proposal we are discussing is from the Danish People's Party. As I read it, it is intended to abolish justice for asylum seekers so that they can be expelled administratively if they are charged with something criminal. I find that problematic. In fact, I think that it is doing away with the division of power so that it does not apply to asylum seekers. Fortunately, in the motion for a resolution, the Danish People's Party itself points out that this is in every way contrary to fundamental human rights, and I agree with the Danish People's Party. I also think that this is quite basically contrary to our legal principles here in Denmark. We are the rule of law, and I think that we absolutely must safeguard that. This is fundamentally contrary to the international conventions that we have signed. Therefore, it may not come as a surprise to the Danish People's Party that the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122236	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. We shall now proceed to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122248	Thank you. Nor will it come as a surprise that the Radical Left cannot support the motion for a resolution either. In fact, I will be brief and refer to some of the very fine things that the rapporteur of the Left said. It is basically about understanding the rule of law. What are the principles on which we stand? I think that the rapporteur of the Liberal Group, Mr von der Vring, is right. Jan E. Jørgensen, said it was a little fresh to expel people before judgment has passed, and that was perhaps a mild interpretation. Because it has to be said that administrative decisions are taken before a judgment has been taken in a case, that is quite fundamental undermining the division of power, and hence the rule of law and the rule of law on which our democracy rests. I think that is quite enough reason in itself to oppose this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122358	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. I do not see representatives of the SF present, so we move on to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mr. Martin Henriksen, who is allowed to express his opinion from the platform or right, to put it correctly. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122430	Thank you. In the Danish People's Party, we want a consistent and more targeted approach to asylum seekers who commit crime while their asylum case is being dealt with in Denmark. The consistent approach towards criminal asylum seekers must, in our view, mean that the processing of an asylum application is stopped immediately if an asylum seeker is caught in the act of committing crime and he must then be able to be deported administratively. Furthermore, in our view, the possibility of administrative detention of criminal asylum seekers must be extended, so that criminal asylum seekers who cannot be expelled, for example. because of the risk of torture and persecution in the home Member State, the detention and surveillance shall be carried out until expulsion is possible or until they leave Denmark voluntarily. It is our clear position that people who, under the guise of being on the run, are coming to Denmark to commit crime must be severely beaten. Not only is this criminal behaviour detrimental to Danish society and offensive to our sense of justice, it is also an insult to the well-integrated aliens that groups of criminals are grossly exploiting an asylum system which originally intended to help people in need. This proposal therefore aims to establish clear sanctions against asylum seekers who commit crime while their asylum case is being dealt with in Denmark. There is an urgent need for a new legislative approach which, overall, can give a more consistent approach to asylum seekers who commit crime. The current asylum system simply does not manage to deal with the challenges of asylum seekers, who, grossly and repeatedly, are completely unaware of the country that has accepted them, abuse the asylum system and abuse the hospitality that has been shown to them by the Danish community. In short, in the view of the Danish People's Party, more political action is needed. And that is why we are proposing today to stop dealing with asylum cases in the case of committed crime, and we are proposing increased opportunities for administrative expulsion. We also propose extending the scope for administrative detention of criminal asylum seekers until the day they can be deployed. We in the Danish People's Party are very opposed to these people being allowed in some cases to walk freely in Danish society. We are very opposed to the fact that, although they have actually committed crime, there are cases where they continue to deal with their application for asylum, their application to be allowed to stay in Denmark. It should be quite obvious that if they so grossly abuse the hospitality shown by the Danish community, which has taken these people and taken them so seriously that their explanations have been listened to, and yet they commit crime and violate Danish legislation, they should not, of course, have a chance to stay in Denmark. I note that there is no majority in favour of the proposal, which is regrettable and incomprehensible. However, we are still working on the subject of the Danish People's Party, and we hope that one day we can persuade some of the other parties to see the reason for the need for a more consistent course in this area. It has to be the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122733	Thank you, sir. Martin Henriksen. There are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed. Before we go further, I can tell you that our always attentive staff have seen that many of the rapporteurs here are on many matters in a row; therefore, there will be an opportunity to get a little strength in the back room along the way so that we don't get completely cold before we finish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122815	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 9 May 2017. I welcome the rapporteur for the authors of the explanatory statement, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505122853	Thank you. And this can be done very briefly, because this is about the discussion and adoption on 7 February of V 38 in the Folketing, which was about the residents of Brøndby Strand. But it was about more than the residents, and even though the adoption did not make such concrete proposals, it nevertheless marked too many people who were intended or unintentional that ethnic minorities are not part of Danish society. Hopefully it was unintentional, and that is what I hope we can do with that question, so that everyone who is Danes does not get a label that they are not on the basis of their ethnicity. It must be people's behavior that determines these things. So I very much hope that we can have a debate on solutions and do not end up branding a whole group in our society again. That's the call from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505123005	Thank you. And on top of that we will have the opportunity to hear the Minister answer the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505123015	Thank you. After all, it is the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Socialist People's Party that have asked me to explain whether the government considers it incompatible with being a Dane to be an immigrant or a descendant of immigrants from a non-Western country, and then refers to the proposal for adoption in the Folketing. I have to admit, frankly, that at first glance it was somewhat unclear to me what kind of adoption it is referred to, because I am not aware that we in the Folketing have adopted a text which indicates such a contradiction. On the other hand, I have learned that the opposition has not held back from putting words in the mouths of the governing parties and the Danish People's Party on what was actually in the text of the adoption. And without being absolutely certain, I must guess that this must be the text adopted three months ago by the opposition. But we will have to clarify that later. As one of several examples, the radical leader, Mr. Morten Østergaard, on 7 February this year on his facebook profile about the adoption, and I quote that it has been said in advance that ethnic background prevents you from being counted as Danish. To repeat it again, we have never said or thought that some individuals are already excluded from becoming Danish. And I would also like to repeat that there are, of course, good examples of people with non-Western immigrant background who work and who contribute positively to Danish society and who have learned the Danish language and embraced our values and standards. Having said that, however, there is no doubt that a focus on the group with non-Western immigrant background as a group with special integration challenges is both justified and factual and relevant. There is also a reason why Danmarks Statistik is precisely describing the population according to whether they have Danish, Western or non-Western ancestry. And we have very big integration challenges in Denmark. That is why I do not understand the opposition's insistence on wasting all of our time by misreading the previous adoption, which was adopted here three months ago, instead of helping to solve the problems of reality. The problems are well documented. Last month, the Ministry of Finance issued an economic analysis: • net public finance contribution of immigrants. It does not surprise us that non-Western citizens incur a net cost of 33 billion. kr. measured in 2014 figures. And the explanation is, of course, that everything too few are in work, and vice versa that too many are on public support. Obviously, that bill will grow if we do nothing about it. Therefore, it is absolutely necessary to limit the number of asylum seekers and family reunifications, just as it is necessary to make demands and ensure an integration benefit, so that it pays to work that we have carried out in the government with the governing parties and the Danish People's Party. But it is also about more than just economics; it is about Denmark's cohesion. It is no coincidence to me that we, the homogeneous and hardworking Scandinavian peoples, have created societies which, on the one hand, are rich and, on the other hand, are able to give everyone a fair chance and help those who need it. When I follow the political debate, I have in fact the impression that we in the Danish Parliament basically agree that we must preserve and further develop precisely the Denmark that I described just now. A logical consequence of that view is that for me it is enough here that the waters separate that it is not compatible with massive immigration of groups with very different cultural backgrounds and low competencies. In my opinion, this presupposes that we limit the number of asylum seekers and family reunifications because the number is of great importance for Denmark's future. So far we have completed 55 tightenings; 55 tightenings, which are of course intended to ensure that our rules on foreigners are adapted to the current refugee situation to take good care of Denmark; 55 tightenings, which will help create the conditions for more successful integration of those who are already in this country. Today's debate does not, unfortunately, allow us to list all 55 restrictions of the government in the field of foreigners, but I can say that in the area of asylum and family reunification, among other things. has introduced a limitation on the duration of residence permits for persons with protection needs here in Denmark; a postponement of the right to family reunification for persons with temporary protection; and increased access to detention of rejected asylum seekers and foreigners without legal residence in the country. One thing is certain: the government will continue the strict, consistent and realistic immigration policy, because it is the whole prerequisite for better integration. Let us now turn to the integration task. Integration is not a matter of us all bent a little towards each other, and then we'll probably meet somewhere in the middle. It is a question that when you come to Denmark, you take Denmark to yourself. This means that you take the language into account, that you take the value set into account and that you take into account the culture that we have in this country. This includes a foundation of freedoms and freedoms, which makes men and women, girls and boys equally worthless; that in this country you can believe exactly the god you want; you can say exactly what you want; you can also draw exactly what you want, and you can also get it printed in the newspaper. And, of course, it is a matter of working, supporting yourself and yours, and making a positive contribution to Danish society at all. The government's focus is not only on making it less attractive to move towards Denmark. Of course, we also need to make far more demands on those who are not only necessary, but it is also quite reasonable to make a contribution to Danish society as soon as possible when you are here. And then it is absolutely crucial for the integration of the individual into Danish society that you enter the labour market, that you meet Danes, that you learn the language, that you get to know the Danish norms and values, and that you embrace them. If we are to have more people at work, yes, of course it must also be worthwhile to work, and that is why we have introduced the integration benefit, the 225-hour rule and the ceiling on cash benefits. The integration effort must then take place in the companies and it must be linked to the community that is also the labour market. In fact, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the municipalities, but also the social partners, i.e. the employers and the trade union movement, for the good cooperation we have had and have on the agreements we have reached on integration efforts, and where there is a focus right now on jobs from day one. We have made it clear that all newcomers as a starting point are ready for work and must go to a company. I would like to make it clear that the government does not accept that there are environments and groups in Denmark where people live contrary to our ideals of democracy and personal freedom and where social control is perceived as good education. That is why, last October, we presented two action plans with a large number of new initiatives on the prevention of extremism and radicalisation, and one on combating social control and honour-related conflicts. As can also be seen from the new proposal for adoption that we are putting forward here today, people who have lived in Denmark for a number of years have the possibility of applying for Danish citizenship. In the government, we do not see citizenship in Denmark as a human right. On the other hand, we see it as a very, very great privilege; something we must earn and something that must reflect and support our objectives in integration policy. That is why I also welcome the fact that with the 2015 agreement on citizenship, among other things. A new test of birthrights was introduced, increased demands for Danish knowledge and self-reliance, and then an extension of the carnage periods if you commit crime. To sum it all up, I would like to say: I fully recognise that there are certainly people here in Denmark with a non-Western immigrant background who contribute positively to our country; who have become part of the community we have here and who have taken our values to heart; values of democracy, freedom, equality. And I can say that I have met a lot of them myself. Unfortunately, however, there are too many where this is not the case, and that is why we have a massive problem of integration in Denmark, which is concentrated on the group of non-western immigrants. I am surprised that several parties here in the Folketing consider it more important to use their energy to insist on misreading a single passage in a text of adoption than to relate to the substance of the matter. Frankly, I find that shameful. That is why I hope that, with today's adoption, we will be able to concentrate on the important work which must, for all of us, be ahead of us. For me, as I have said, it is a question of having a strict policy on foreigners; that there should be tangible economic incentives to get more people into work; that integration efforts should make very clear demands that people should go to work, that we should do away with social control and extremism. I would just like to say that integrating into Denmark is not just about, as I said before, everyone should bend towards each other a little, and then meet somewhere in the middle. It is about the fact that when you live and live in Denmark, you have to embrace the Danish value set, you have to embrace our standards, our traditions. And then it's all about that when you live in Denmark, you can build your own life on top of the foundation that generations before us have laid; a foundation that allows you to believe in exactly the god you want here. You can say whatever you want. You can also draw exactly what you want. And here, girls and boys, women and men are worth no less. On top of that foundation you can then build your own life; you just can't break the foundation, and we have to be infinitely clear about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505124402	Thank you, Minister. Then we start the debate and the first rapporteur is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505124415	Thank you. Adoption No V 38, which was adopted in the Folketing on 7 February, was about more than the residents of Brøndby Strand, because the adoption marked that ethnic minorities, as I said in my explanatory statement, are aliens to Danish society. With a great deal of probability, and I think it has a value in itself that the Minister here confirms this, it was not the intention. It is so good that we have the opportunity to take note of it. In any case, this was not the intention of everyone behind the adoption, and that is an opportunity for this question to be quite specific. But the adoption came on purpose or not on purpose to expel a group of citizens on the basis of their ethnicity and signal that these citizens would not, but also that they could not become part of our community. In this way there are certain self-fulfilling prophecy elements in V 38, primarily because it is stigmatizing for a growing group of Danish citizens. The division in some way creates hierarchy of citizenship, as if one can be it in different ways depending on one's ethnicity, and it is detrimental to our cohesion as a society. We have no more categories of citizenship. The consequences may already be quite clear. Over 70%. of young people with minority backgrounds do not trust us as parliamentary politicians. Other young people may not, and a healthy skepticism is a good thing. One can say that it is actually quite huge Danish, but it may also be an expression of other things. I would insist on saying that it would actually be very interesting to investigate, to gain knowledge, deeper knowledge, research into, because it is also one of the very fundamentals of this debate that the adoption of February was not based on knowledge and facts. For example: There is virtually no correlation in the vulnerable residential areas, so-called ghettos, between the number of ethnic minorities and crime. So in this way Parliament's concern was directed in the wrong place, because if we base ourselves on facts, figures from Statistics Denmark, then they show that it is mainly ethnic minorities who feel insecure in the vulnerable residential areas after dark, not people of ethnic Danish origin. Then it can be said that we in the Danish Parliament ought to be more concerned about how to solve the problems in the socially vulnerable residential areas, and I heard the Minister stress that too; I think that is very good and of course also about how we include more people in our Danish community at the same time. However, it is scandalous that the Danish Parliament at least until we adopt something else... believes that only a high proportion of immigrants and descendants without further explanation in themselves is worrying. That is the wording indicating that a majority in the Folketing perceives people who have non-Western roots as some who in themselves should be concerned about their presence. It is a very stigmatizing, very generalising formulation which is detrimental to our cohesion, for it must necessarily be people's behaviour, not their origin, which defines whether their presence in a given area is worrying. We heard the Minister interpret that as well. The concern may be entirely justified if, for example, there is experience in some areas. I have just explained that there is no link, for example, between crime and crime, which is a high degree of insecurity. between the number of immigrants and descendants of non-western countries and the rate of crime in a given area. On the contrary, in general terms, this is the case statistically, we know that the rate of crime is decreasing, the more immigrants and descendants living in a residential area. It's documented. It is not necessarily a good thing, but just on the basis of crime rates you cannot say that. In fact, just to get more facts on the table it is quite generally the case that 4.5%. of people of Danish origin feel insecure in their vicinity after dark, while the same applies to 11.5 per cent. 7.9% of immigrants and 7.9% of immigrants. by descendants, who are the statistical definitions of Statistics Denmark. In Aarhus almost 20% feel. by the descendants themselves insecure when living in their vicinity. That only applies to 3%. by persons of Danish origin. So in many ways our concerns have not quite been addressed in the right place. In any case, there are indications that we were about to take this even more seriously. Most municipalities' strategies for socially vulnerable residential areas also include a desire, a goal, to maintain strong residents. It is very important to bear in mind that in many places the strong inhabitants are the descendants of non-western immigrants. The reason this isn't seen in the statistics yet is that over 80%. of all descendants of non-western countries have not yet reached the age of 25. That is also what the Ministry of Finance's statement showed. They are mostly not in work, but they are in education. So that is where we need to focus on housing policy, child and education policy, ensure that all children are taken care of, ensure that there are enough educators, that educators have the right skills, and also when it comes to children with an intercultural background, because that is what makes a difference to breaking patterns and backgrounds. I think we are all concerned about this: that we meet each other, that we ensure with an active housing policy that we do not isolate ourselves in residential areas. Then I shall read out the proposal for adoption by the proposers. Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there are currently areas in Denmark where the proportion of Danish citizens with roots in non-western countries is over 50%. This suggests that there is a structural challenge, for example: the housing area, which means that minority Estonian citizens and ethnic Danish citizens do not live and meet to a sufficient extent across environments. It is the view of the Danish Parliament that this should be countered by inter alia: an active housing policy, education policy, labour market policy and integration policy. • V 97).
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125254	Thank you so much. But there are also a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125300	Thank you for that, President. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen made a lot of sense that this debate can be stigmatizing, it can be generalising, and I fully agree with that. That is why I think it is disgusting of the Radical Left to continue this debate. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and the rest of the Radical Left cannot have been in doubt at any time about what today's question is about, namely whether some people believe that it is incompatible to be a Dane and an immigrant or descendant of immigrants from a non-Western country. Has Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen honestly ever thought that any member of the Danish Parliament thinks so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125356	I am absolutely convinced that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen does not mean it, and that makes me very happy. Now, with the Minister's speech earlier, I have also been stressed that it was not the intention to send that signal. I think that's really, really good. But what a lot of people outside this Parliament hall around here in our society have taken down and which I am quite convinced that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen was asked a great many questions after the debate on V 38, namely that in V 38 it is stated that it is the adoption that remains until there is another adoption that a majority of the Danish Parliament has decided that it is the Danish Parliament's view that Danes should not be in the minority in residential areas in Denmark. I am very, very pleased that there are members of the Folketing who have subsequently said that it was an unfortunate wording. However, it is quite fundamental in respect of the Parliament that we are part of, that it is the adoption that is now under the authority of a majority of the Folketing. And that's the signal that's written until it's changed. I hope we can get through that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125518	That's not what I asked. I did not really expect an honest answer to my question either, because the truth is that the radical crusade that has been going on since the end of February, where it is about knowingly misdirecting the people of whom Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen stands and claims to be the great protector, has just continued to end. After all, I myself and several others from my party have said: the interpretation of the Radical Left is not what we believe it is not what we have meant at any time. Yet this campaign has continued. Who's stigmatizing? Who's generalizing? Who's talking about ethnicity, because it's not us?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125602	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, that is what you did when you adopted V 38. I'm incredibly glad that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen attributes radical left so much campaigning skills that we should have even campaigned on this. On the contrary, I have cooperated with, among other things, Mr President. Mino Danmark, who gathers facts and knowledge about minority ethnic citizens in Denmark, to get the facts out. That is also why I used my rapporteur's speech to talk about it. That is what is incredibly important now. And the most important thing is that we get another vote, and that the majority of the Folketing does not send the same signal, so that both minority ethnic citizens and children with adopted backgrounds, young people, adults with adopted background feel that the entire Folketing recognises them as Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125700	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125703	Thank you. There have been campaigns from the Radical Left and others on the social media, so it is also very thought-provoking that in the proposal for adoption adopted by the Danish Parliament and which we in the Danish People's Party thought was a very good proposal for adoption, ethnicity stands, for example. not mentioned. But it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen who is now bringing ethnicity into the debate. There are many who perceive ethnicity as belonging to a people, but there are also many who see it as e.g. an expression of a person's skin color. That was among other things. That is why we did not include it in the debate we had and in the proposal for adoption that we had then, because we did not want that to be what we were discussing. But Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen and Radical and all sorts of others have discussed this. The motion for a resolution presented today by the Radical Left actually mentions the word ethnicity as the only one in this debate for the first time in an official document from the Folketing. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125800	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125801	But there's a very, very big difference between that. And, of course, as the Minister suggested, we need to talk about the challenges, and that is what we are also openly trying to address in the proposal for adoption here, namely that we should base ourselves on knowledge and facts. And there are some statistical concepts that we use. We have no problem with that at all. What remains is that there is a majority vote in the Folketing, which states that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas in Denmark. It is very difficult not to perceive the text as that there are some in these areas that cannot perceive themselves as Danish and that it is a very large percentage. For that is the majority that we are talking about. That is what we want. I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Martin Henriksen seems to be supporting this, for then the opportunity is right now to allow another proposal for adoption to be adopted by a majority of the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125904	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125906	In the time I've had the honour and pleasure of being a member of parliament, I think this is one of the most absurd things I've ever experienced. The proposal for adoption adopted at the time does not mention any personal interest. In the official statements which form the basis of the proposal for adoption, one does not, of course, take into account ethnicity, i.e. if one understands it as skin color. You don't. It is done on the basis of the country from which they have migrated. Well, you can misunderstand everything if you want to, but you can't read it into it unless you deliberately want to misunderstand it. I also think that those parties which claim that the Folketing has decided that persons with a non-Western background are in all cases excluded from becoming Danes should give an apology, because that is actually not what the Folketing has adopted. Right must be right. I am happy to stand up for my opinions, and I think everyone in here is doing so, but there must also be some reasonableness in things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505125955	That must be done, and that is exactly what we want to create by promoting a debate in order to have a new vote. Because no matter how much the rapporteur accuses me and my party and our huge campaign organisation, it remains that a lot of people with other ethnic backgrounds have got the impression that they cannot count themselves as Danish. I think it must be in the interests of the Danish Parliament to change that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130041	I'm sorry we just have a shift here on the chair. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130056	In other words, it could be that the reason why this debate is over is that the Radical Left is making such manipulative views that this debate is taking place and that it is no longer possible to distinguish from what has actually been said. I simply cannot see that some have ever claimed that it would be incompatible with being a Dane, that one is an immigrant or descendant of immigrants from non-western countries. I simply cannot see who has claimed it. It's absurd, and it's also malicious. Because if you pride yourself on emphasising enlightenment and facts, you can't go out and argue that. It is simply a manipulative process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130147	No, the question has been asked just to deny that question. And I'm glad to hear that, sir. Christian Langballe emphasizes. What was the starting point was adoption V 38 that it is the Folketing's view that Danes should not be in minority in residential areas in Denmark. This has obviously led to a debate which needs to be taken into account, along with the impressions of the many, many inquiries, I and probably Mr. Christian Langballe has received from Danes of other ethnic backgrounds, with adopted backgrounds, who have gained the impression that a majority in the Folketing does not recognise them as Danes. That's the picture of a lot of people out there. And we in the Radical Left and among the questioners believe that we should take this seriously. I am very pleased that there seems to be a large majority of people who believe that of course one can perceive oneself as a Dane when one has a different ethnic background, an adopted background or other. I think we should make this quite clear in a joint vote here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130307	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130312	I think it is a bunch of chatter and a bunch of sea-explanations that the Radical Left has contributed to simply derailing the debate by making manipulative claims about something that has not been said at all. And then it may be that you say at the end that you now have this debate, and oh, how nice it is, but up to this debate the Radicals have made statements that simply do not cover anything but what the Radical Left ideologically wants the world to look like in relation to the Danish People's Party. And it's just very regrettable that you want to manipulate that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130353	I think, sir. Christian Langballe makes a whole series of undocumented claims. What remains is the adoption by a majority of the Folketing on 7 February that Danes should not be in a minority in residential areas in Denmark. It was at the request of Mr. Christian Langballe's own party, and Mr. Christian Langballe and a majority in the Danish Parliament have the opportunity right now to reverse that view so that it is not left with all the people who see themselves as Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130422	The next brief remark is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130428	Thank you. If a politician from another party has accidentally made a small fire in here at Christiansborg that wouldn't be so good, it's before burned up, you can react in two ways. You can help your colleague get the fire off, or you can choose to pour petrol on the fire so that it spreads, and then point the finger and say: it was the others' fault. I think the Radical Left has done the last thing, because I refuse to believe that one might have had the impression that we, who have been behind this text of adoption, should think that it was incompatible with being a Dane, that one was, for example, an adoptive child or a descendant of foreigners who had come to Denmark or, for that matter, had come to Denmark as a foreigner. That was well known, and that is why it was discussed in the debate. So I think the Radical Left then chose to pour gasoline on the fire rather than help us put it out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130535	I therefore recognise the rapporteur's entirely legitimate question, because the rapporteur has made a great deal of making it clear around here, and I am sure that it has also been perceived that it was not intended. I have very, very much respect for that. Now we are in a parliamentary space, and the parliamentary tools that we have to put out fires are, of course, to reverse the proposal for adoption, which is otherwise left as the only statement made by a majority in the Folketing. So the parliamentary tool is, of course, to reverse the proposal for adoption, and this is the reason for this question, and this is the reason for sending out a distinctly different signal to people with other ethnic backgrounds... adoptive children and young people... that, of course, they are, and that is because it is the proposal for adoption that a majority in the Folketing is behind. That's what it says now. And I have very, very, very, very much respect for the rapporteur's work in nuance of these messages in contact with the groups involved. I have absolutely great hopes that we can continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130705	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130708	Thank you. This area is very sensitive, and we should not say much wrong until there are people who are affected by it; it happened in this case, and in that case I did not think the Radical Left was particularly helpful. I agree that there were adopted children and Danes with minority backgrounds who took the view that they per. the definition had been made unanswered, no matter what they did, but it was not Radical Left and Enhedslisten who at that time acted particularly helpfully. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130746	Yeah, I think we just have different ideas about that. In fact, that is why, as a starting point, I and we in the group of proposers have worked closely with Mino Denmark, which is precisely an organisation that collects knowledge and facts... try to demystify the problems in this area, to get them to start with real problems, but also to eliminate stereotypes and myths that exist, which I know the rapporteur fully recognises. So I think that the rapporteur's objectives and my objectives are the same far along the way. Then we've had different ways of doing it. My parliamentary tools are to be able to change the proposal for adoption, because that is what is still out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130840	The next brief remark is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130845	That sounds a little bit to the rapporteur, both in the remarks here, but also in the speech, as if it were something new for the rapporteur, that both the Left Party, the Conservative People's Party and my own party, the Liberal Alliance, do not believe that it is incompatible to be a Dane and to have another ethnic origin. I just want to ask the rapporteur: has the rapporteur heard politicians from these three parties say anything other than that since we had the debate in the Folketing last time? Because I have just heard a lot of us say that both myself and my colleagues in the other two parties have said that you can of course be a Dane, even if you have a different ethnic origin.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505130924	I have also heard the rapporteur and several others say that. After all, the debate on the V 38 has given rise to, I hope, that so many people have had to and have felt called to go out and confirm that it was not a counter-position, either for the rapporteur or for many others, and that is very, very good. It is precisely for this reason that I believe that the parliamentary tool we should use is that there is no vote left, which continues to signal that a majority in the Folketing supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131000	The second brief remark is the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131003	I am glad that the rapporteur can confirm that that is what we said. In fact, I think it was already the first day we had the debate, and at least from the day after many places in the media. I would then like to ask the rapporteur a question. Because it is true that the debate saw in the next few days that a lot of people were upset. But since it was not us who were out to say that it is incompatible with being a Dane to have a different ethnic origin from Danish, does the rapporteur have an idea of how it might be that the debate came out where it came out and that so many people should be saddened?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131035	Yes, my suggestion is that it is because the Folketing actually adopted a proposal for adoption, V 38, where it remains, that a majority in the country's parliament has a view that Danes should not be in minorities in residential areas in Denmark. There is always politics in everything, but it is the adoption that remains, and that is what I sincerely hope that a majority in the Folketing will help to change.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131105	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further brief comments, so we will continue in the course of the debate, and the next rapporteur is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Mattias Tesfaye of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131115	Thank you. We are now called to the second half of the debate on Danishism that developed here in the Danish Parliament in the wake of the question about population development in Brøndby Strand, my own constituency in the West. At that time I warned against the wordings which the bourgeois parties subsequently chose to adopt, for at best they invited misunderstandings, and at worst a majority of the Folketing decided that one could not be a Dane if the parents had migrated from a non-western country. Since then I have talked to many people in the West region who have asked specifically about this decision, and many have been hurt, and several have seen it as a step backwards for integration that the Danish Parliament can decide on this kind of thing, and it has been necessary both for the housing companies in Brøndby Strand and for the municipality to stress that Danes come in many colors and with many backgrounds. The bourgeois parties in the municipality of Brøndby have played a positive role in this regard. I am also convinced that the bourgeois parties in this Chamber feel misunderstood. Because of course we agree across parties that one can easily be a Dane and at the same time be a child of immigrants, and here the question debate could end. But we will not be able to escape that easily, because behind the misunderstanding and the clumsy wording is a crucial discussion. The guest workers from the 1960s and 1970s are very aware of their national identity. They are Kurds, Turks and Pakistanis, they are born in their homeland and they speak their native language perfectly. They have memories of their upbringing, and they have a strong national feeling. But their children, born in Denmark, do not have the same roots in their parents' homeland. A young guy from Albertslund explained to me that he felt both alien in Denmark and Turkey. He has never been to Brøndby Stadium, but he follows the Turkish football league very closely. But when he is on holiday in his grandparents' village in Konya Province, he sits all day bored at the city's online café playing video games with friends at home in Denmark. His Turkish is broken and mixed up with English, Danish and Arabic, he is lost between two nations and robbed a true national feeling. It can quickly develop into rootlessness. When I asked another young man whether he felt most like Dane or Turk, he replied in one word: Muslim. Securing ownership of Danishness is an important issue and preventing parallel societies is an important task, but my experience is that we are failing in both areas. More and more young people in our society do not feel like Danes. It's catastrophic. The Turkish, Kurdish and Arab parallel societies are increasingly isolated from the Danish, unfortunately. Last Tuesday I sat in a Turkish restaurant in the West with my family. We were the only ones who spoke Danish. There was Turkish radio over the speakers, Turkish television on the television, which hung in the corner, Turkish staff, Turkish customers, next to a Turkish butcher, to the other hand a Turkish hairdresser, and around the restaurant as far as the eye reaches homes with a majority of Turkish and Kurdish residents, at the school a majority of their children who can grow up and only learn Danish as a technical second language, the rest of their lives are settled in Turkish. This is a huge political failure. It divides our society, it prevents the experience of cohesion, it undermines solidarity, and it will be the end of the welfare state if we do not deal with it. It is true when people point to a better housing policy, social policy, labour market policy and many other good things, and I will not deny that. But remember that the vast majority of immigrants are law-abiding, nice and nice people who are doing quite well in our society with education and permanent work. They are not social clients, yet parallel societies are growing and they are part of it. We do not therefore avoid talking more directly about loyalty and interest in the Danish community and thus about Danishism. I myself usually ask young Danish Muslims to take the lego-block test, and I can introduce it to the Danish Parliament as well. I say to them: If now a woman from Thisted squatters in a lego block and goes to the hospital and at the same time there is a Muslim who pats in a lego block in her apartment in Malmö, you don't know any of them, one lives in the same country as yourself, and the other believes in the same god as yourself, who would you rather have your treasure crowns go to help? Fortunately, most people say the woman from Thisted, and they have thus passed the legocum test and can call themselves Danes in the heart, but I would not deny that too many and more people would rather help the Swedish Muslim, and it is a gigantic problem for the welfare state, just as it is a huge problem if the taxpayers of Thisted do not feel any connection with the citizens of Brøndby Strand. Then support simply crumbles into social and geographical redistribution. I would therefore like to use this debate to say very clearly to immigrants and their children and grandchildren: Zap on Danish television. I am getting tired of the fact that so many people are more interested in the weather forecast in Turkey than in Denmark.You live here, just as I would like to say to everyone who doubts whether immigrants and their children and grandchildren can be Danes, that they must pack their old-fashioned, staggered understanding of Danishness away. The ethnic and religiously homogeneous Denmark is over. Put Monopoly on the DVD if you miss it, but get used to Danes now coming in many colors and many religions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131617	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there a proposal for adoption?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131621	Yeah. Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with concern that there are currently areas in Denmark where the proportion of immigrants and descendants from non-western countries is over 50 per cent. Most of them are Danes, others are not. However, it is in any case the Danish Parliament's view that integration works best when Danish language and culture are important in schools and residential areas. It is therefore the view of the Folketing that parallel societies should be countered by an active integration policy that ensures that citizens meet each other across social and cultural backgrounds. Parliament also calls on the government to continue working on a political objective to maintain a low number of asylum seekers and family members coming to Denmark. V 98).
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131702	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will be included in the further discussion. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505131713	Thank you. Today we have a very special debate, because it is about the Folketing saying that people with a non-Western background should be excluded from becoming Danes. But that's not true. It was already clearly stated in the debate on F 21 by the undersigned that persons who have a different background from the typical Danish background can easily be considered to be Danish if they have adapted to Danish society and have drifted into society and have taken Danish culture for themselves. In fact, I think that was the first thing I answered when I got a question during that debate. So it has been established a long time ago. The only people who have repeatedly questioned this in the public debate are the Radicals and the Left, which is a little absurd, since the left is claiming that they are being carried away by those who have an immigrant background. But here the Left and the Radicals, which in my view is quite unsympathetic, have fallen back on the well-integrated immigrants because they tell them that the Folketing has decided that they can never become Danes, and they say so, I think at least knowing that it is not true. I think that they say it to create enemy images and to keep the story that those DFs are some worse ones, but I think that many of those who vote for the Radicals and Enhedslisten are totally in on the fact that we are some worse ones, so they don't have to put words in our mouths, because those people will believe it no matter what. To this I would say that we in the Danish People's Party have for a long time welcomed many of the resident immigrants and descendants into the Danish community. We only set a few conditions, because you have to do something to be part of the Danish community, and you have to take Danish culture and Danish traditions to heart and make them your own, and if you do not want to do so, you exclude yourself. It's as simple as that. But it has nothing to do with your skin color or other things in it. That has nothing to do with it at all. We must, of course, continue to discuss how we can avoid Danes coming into minorities in certain areas of Denmark. This is the most important item on today's agenda, tomorrow's agenda and in the future. That is clearly the most important point. In the Danish People's Party we disapprove of the fact that what can be called Swedish states is about to be introduced into Danish politics, where reality is manipulated and where it has become difficult to discuss on the basis of facts such as: is used by public authorities, ministries, researchers and many others. I think it is sad for the public and political debate and indeed a little destructive for democracy when manipulation becomes one's best argument. But it should not cause the Danish People's Party to change course. Our policy is unchanged. We in the Danish People's Party would like to discuss politics on the basis of facts, and if you cannot do so, we believe that the debate has been lost in advance. Of course, we continue to support the proposal for adoption which was adopted last time, and we really think that it is fine as it does. That is why we are going to present today a proposal for adoption based on the same problem, but this time on the basis of the latest figures, which show that 20%. of the population in 2060 will have an immigrant background, for it is of course the far too large immigration that is the greatest threat to Denmark and to Danish culture. Therefore, on behalf of my party, DF, I shall make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes with great concern that the proportion of people with an immigrant background is rising sharply towards 2060, which weakens the social and cultural cohesion of Denmark. This inevitably means that there will be more residential areas where Danes are in the minority, which is deeply regrettable. Against this background, the Danish Parliament strongly urges the government to adopt a political objective that Denmark should reduce the number of residence permits annually so that immigration is gradually managed more effectively. Efforts must first and foremost be made to reduce non-western immigration. On the basis of this adoption, the Folketing invites the government to convene political discussions. • V 99).
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132119	I do not see anyone making brief remarks. Someone came in now. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132128	Thank you. I just had to make sure that the proposal for adoption had been read out. I think it is very good that Mr. Martin Henriksen does not believe that it was the view that should remain that was left behind after V 38. That's what I see, sir. Martin Henriksen's speech. But what I'd like to ask, sir. Martin Henriksen about, is whether we should not focus on where the problems are and are greatest, and among immigrants there are 2% who feel more Muslim than Danish among descendants, and that was some of what Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also made clear in his excellent speech. Among descendants, it is 4% who feel more Muslim. I also think that it is a problem if you go around feeling more Muslim than Danish. But shouldn't we target the 4%? instead of talking about the fact that there must be no minority of Danes. Sir. Martin Henriksen repeated it, and so to me it sounds like a repeat of the proposal for adoption and risks sending out the exact signal again that people with other ethnic backgrounds who feel Danish are Danish, cannot necessarily get Mr. Martin Henriksen. Martin Henriksen's words that this is also his view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132304	We still have a long agenda, so I recommend that we keep to the speaking time. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132310	In fact, I think it is positive that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen says that it is a problem that some people in Denmark feel more Muslim than they feel Danish. It is a good signal to send out from the Radical Left too, and it could perhaps be the occasion for a new proposal for adoption at some point, because I think it is actually very good that it is being said. I think it is quite clear that we should focus on the problems, and the main problem is that immigration is too violent, especially Muslim immigration, and it must be brought down. That is the main problem, and that is what we are focusing on from the Danish People's Party. That is also why there are now many different proposals for adoption today that it would be very nice if we could agree to try to reduce the immigration which is the cause of many of the debates we have here, which is why we see problems in different areas and which is why there are areas in Denmark where Danes are in minorities. That's how it is. When you look at the figures, it is so that statistically there are areas in Denmark where Danes are in the minority, and when you as a Dane move into those areas, you also get the feeling that you as a Dane are in the minority and that it is not Danish culture that is the dominant culture. So when both the official statements say that Danes are in the minority, and it's the same experience you get when you move into these areas, then there's probably something about the talk. If we are to resolve this, it is, first and foremost, a limitation of immigration, which we need to look at.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132431	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132434	Sir. Martin Henriksen now repeats that Danes are in the minority. Recognizes Mr. Martin Henriksen not that the term, Danes, also applies to people with a different ethnic background, which is Danish and feels Danish, in these residential areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132451	I recognise that, when I say it that way, it is, of course, generalising, and it is, but one has to generalise in the public debate once in a while. Many people do that in the public debate. So do the media. So do the various politicians and different political parties and social debaters. There are often some who generalise in the public debate, and sometimes you have to do that, otherwise the debate does not make sense. It is the case that there are areas in Denmark where the Danes are in the minority. That's how it is. That's reality. We have to deal with reality, otherwise we cannot solve the problems of reality. Then, of course, there may be people who, statistically speaking, are part of the "Mjølnerparken" group, which is defined as being non-Western, but which has moved so far towards Danish society that they would then be Danish. The sad thing is that many of those people would probably be sent to a reeducation camp or come into some shelter because they have masquerading to have a Danish girlfriend, for example. There we just do not get around the fact that the reason why this is so is because we continue to have immigration, especially from Muslim countries, which continue to bring some standards and values and cultures to Denmark, which are incompatible with being Danish. And that is where we cannot avoid restricting immigration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132559	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to the rapporteur, so I shall continue the series of speakers. The next speaker is the rapporteur on the Left, Mr President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505132611	Thank you for the floor, President, and apologise for the waiting. It is then customary to thank the rapporteurs or the parties behind the question for having the opportunity to debate a given subject, which is generally relevant, because such a debate usually serves some purpose. I am simply not going to correct such a thank you today; I cannot make myself do that. Then why am I so ungrateful? Is it because an otherwise significant debate on the number of immigrants and descendants in residential areas was deliberately and purposefully driven off the trail of the parties responsible for today's question? No, that's not it. But it did, and it was a pity, because it was an important debate. Is it, then, because politicians from the same parties deliberately and against better knowledge, following that debate, have distorted the views of the majority, that we should think that one cannot be a Dane if one is an immigrant or a descendant of immigrants? No, it's not that either. But you have, and that was a lie. Is it because the same parties continued a lying and manipulative campaign, even though both myself and several other rapporteurs from my side of the House had refuted the wrong interpretation? No, it's not that either. That's politics sometimes. Why, then, am I standing here and being petty and not thanking for the debate? That is because the rapporteurs from some of the parties behind today's debate cynically and manipulatively did everything they could to build walls between them and us. That is because the same rapporteurs took a lot of innocent people hostage in a moment's euphoria to be able to squander some votes. It is above all because some parties who are keen to give security to the people who come to our country, instead, chased a lot of people a horror in life • people who have struggled to get Denmark under their skin, people who have become Danes. You frightened them by claiming that a majority in the Folketing does not recognise them as Danish, although you know that it is not right. You didn't care about them, you used them as pawns in your cynical game. I am generally, particularly on Fridays, a person with a surplus and a positive attitude, not least to my political opponents, but this is simply too gross. I wanted to say, I'm not angry, I'm disappointed. But the truth is, I'm not angry, I'm furious, and I'm also disappointed. Make no mistake, there should be room to put views at the forefront, but when you as a political party sink so low that you share videos with children who break down in tears because they are told that the majority in this room believe that they are not Danish, it is too much. Then it's not just controversy, then it's evil, and you can't be familiar with that. Being Danish is something valuable. It actually means something, and you can't take that hostage. The answer to today's question is really short: No, it is not incompatible with being Danish that you have a non-western background. But you knew that. I do not know a single member of the Folketing who thinks otherwise. And when is one Danish if we are going to get some relevance into the debate? You are a legal person when you are a Danish citizen, and yet I am one of those who adheres to Grundtvig's definition, and after my little tirade it may be appropriate to get a few good civil words from the priest's mouth: to a people they all hear, as it were, Har for the mother tongue, Har for the native country of fire; • I shall greet from Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party, who did not have the opportunity to be here today, and say that the Conservative People's Party is in complete agreement. Then I will read (on behalf of V, LA and KF) the following: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark's Statistics divides the population into three groups: Persons of Danish origin, immigrants and descendants. Immigrants and descendants are subdivided according to whether they come from a western or non-western country. The Folketing thus notes, as the government and a political majority indicated in the discussion of F 21 2016-17, that the question of whether persons have a foreign background does not in itself affect whether they can be considered Danish and whether they consider themselves to be Danish. Persons who live in Denmark but who have foreign origins are not necessarily Danish, but they have the possibility of applying for Danish citizenship. The Folketing regards Danish citizenship as a great privilege, which should be reflected in the demands made to obtain Danish citizenship. • V 100). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133217	You're welcome. There is just one brief comment, and it is from Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go. I should also like to say that the proposal for adoption that has been read out now is the fourth proposal, and that is, of course, part of the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133232	Thank you for that and thank you for the proposal for adoption which I think I can agree with words to the contrary when I read it. I therefore believe that we have come to the point where a majority in the Folketing does not send out the signal that was sent by V 38. That is also the purpose of this question, namely to change direction. That's why I'm gonna ask Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, if it is not the case that when you vote for a proposal for adoption, you are responsible for the proposal for adoption and the perception of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133322	When you vote for a proposal for adoption, you are responsible for it, yes. I do not want to take responsibility for the totally absurd and insane view of the wording of the proposal for adoption by the Radical Left. Could we have formulated ourselves better? Maybe we could. Did we mean what Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen spent months claiming that we meant? No. Does Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen know? Yeah. For that was one of the first questions raised in this Chamber. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen went against better knowledge and claimed that the Left and other parties mean something we don't and took all these people hostage. We simply cannot be familiar with this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133402	Here is the questioner for a second brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133406	Thank you. I'm just gonna have to learn how to pull back in. Yes, but I remember that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also accused the Radical Left of the jewelry law adopted by a majority in the Folketing and of the perception of it. That has to be noted. In my view, we must take responsibility for the proposals for adoption that we have, and I do not recognize either the campaign or the allegations made by Mr Beazley. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. However, I note that there could have been a better wording. It has then come up with the proposal for adoption now, and that was precisely the purpose of calling this question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133445	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133449	It is nevertheless exciting that the purpose of convening this debate is not in any way reflected in what the debate is about today. If you read the question raised by among others. The Radical Left, in fact, is today's debate either about putting in place or about doing the opposite of a view which has never been either the governing parties or the Danish People's Party, as I hear Mr. Martin Henriksen, but as the Radical Left has nevertheless been on tour with against better knowledge. We've always known this, we've all known that, because we've all said that. And to claim that there hasn't been a campaign, it's just to go into hashtag we're all equally Danish and then just get to look at what you've been doing there. When you make ads, movies, Facebook campaigns and give speeches, it's a campaign, Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133548	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments in this case. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505133558	Thank you. When this question debate is important, it is because February's adoption of Danishism here in the Parliament hall caused a great many citizens in Denmark to sit back with such a feeling that they were not really seen as Danes that Christiansborg said they were not really Danish, even if they are people who have Danish passports and who may have been born here or at least have come here a very many years ago. For that adoption, and this is what we are discussing, as the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance wrote, is difficult to read in other ways than that even if you have a Danish passport, even if you were born in this country, it is obviously not enough to be called a Dane. During the days and weeks around this debate there were many, especially young people, who stopped me on the street or wrote by mail or on Facebook and were very concerned about this adoption. Some of them were afraid that it might have legal consequences for them; they were in doubt as to what the result of such a vote in the Folketing was really. I could reassure them there and say that, of course, that was not the case. There were also others who were just very, very sorry to live in a country that you feel like a part of when you were born here and have the Danish passport, but then you have a government that says to you: You are not really Danish. I think it is a problem when Danish citizens feel unwelcome in their own country. And even if you don't care about people's feelings, it must be so that if you're even the least interested in making integration in Denmark work better, it's obvious that it's really stupid, it's a bad idea, to push young people away from the community. And I think this was quite clearly done with the text, the adoption that was adopted in this Chamber. When do you become a Dane? Well, it is quite simple, at least the legal part of it, because when you have Danish citizenship, you are a Dane with the rights and duties that it brings about, and in order to obtain citizenship a number of demands are made. We can discuss politically what demands should be made. I disagree with a large number of those put forward at the present time, but nevertheless the criteria of a rule of law should be objective, they should be transparent, and once you get the Danish passport, you are recognised by the state and the Danish community as being a Dane. I fully agree that Danishism is at the same time a feeling, which is why I also think it is good that you can feel Danish without having a Danish citizenship. But emotions are per. definition subjective; it is only the individual who knows whether he or she feels Danish or not. It will be very, very scary, we will end up in what we have to call mind control if politicians start interfering with that issue, at least if you allow rights to depend on it. By the way, a broad Parliament has not long ago recognised that you can actually feel Danish while feeling everything else. We have decided that you should have dual citizenship, which I think is very good. This means that you can have citizenship both in Denmark and in Australia or in Denmark and in Turkey and in this way be both Danish and Turkish or Danish and from Australia. The debate in February was about the housing composition in Brøndby Strand. Should we work in Denmark to ensure that housing areas become more complex, that both citizens who have ethnic Danish origins, citizens who do not have ethnic Danish origins, that both doctors and SOSUs live, that there are no areas where almost everyone is on transfer income, and then there are others who have never met a person on cash aid, but only hear about such ones on television? Are we going to work for more mixed residential areas? Yeah, we are. It is crucial, it is important, both for integration, but also for cohesion in Denmark, that we meet each other in a much more cross-cutting way. We are certainly not just talking about ethnicity here; it is also about the thing about what education you have, whether you have a job, etc. And for that we need education policy and we need employment policy and we need integration policy and so on. etc. Then we should know that it is extremely damaging to the integration that we are all talking about, if you say to young people: we do not really think you are Danish. I am glad that it is clearly stated by all parties, in fact, today, that of course one can be Danish, even if one was born in another country, of course one can be Danish, even if one's parents come from another country. However, I do not think it is surprising that some people might have thought that it was not the opinion when you read the adoption that was adopted here in the Folketing in February. Now I was waiting to be on the floor when the rapporteur of the Left read out his proposal for adoption, but I think it sounded as if it was also stated in writing that this is the case, of course, and that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505134207	Thank you to the rapporteur. I see no brief comment as to why we continue in the series of speeches. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505134216	Thank you, President. When this question was last raised in this Chamber, it gave rise to a rather unsightly debate during the otherwise quiet winter holiday. On the basis of the text of adoption, you could hear politicians and journalists exercising a discipline in something similar to an absurd quiz game about what qualifies Danishism. However, the question does not answer the problem we would otherwise like to shed light on: finding out what we are doing with the residential areas where integration has failed and where an anti-democratic and totalitarian ideology prevails among some of our citizens. In February, when we ended up having a longer debate on Danishism, it was partly due to a clumsy wording in the adoption text and partly because parts of the left wanted to read the adoption text that a certain person reads the Bible. The debate got completely out of hand when adopted children from Korea could see themselves involved in the issue of Danishism raised in this Chamber. It was both wrong and unreasonable, and worst of all: no one learns anything from it. I think it was inconvenient to end up hurting some people by taking their identity hostage in the debate. Whether you are an active contributing citizen of this country has never been a question of the ethnic origin that we each have. Only one of my parents is, for example. born Danish, but no one has ever been interested in discovering whether I am a citizen, one must keep a special eye on what my values are, or whether I must live close to others with mixed ethnic origin, of course not. Nevertheless, this was the turn of the debate in February. That was then. So here we are again. It is therefore an important issue to raise, an important debate, provided it is concluded on the right terms. Of course, it is deeply problematic that there are residential areas, small enclaves, where democratic and freedomal values are under pressure, where social control and coercion are commonplace and where you do not live in line with the society we call the Danish one. There can be no two opinions on this, just as there can be no doubt about the harmful effects such a parallel society can have. The problem with the debate this winter is that it focused on a wrong goal of Danishness, that is, being Danish. But the problems in these areas are about anything but ethnicity. When you look only at ethnicity, you make an artificial distinction between being Danish and Danish parents and grandparents and being something else, something foreign. For what is the essential thing? What are we to fight against if we are to eradicate the undemocratic and harmful forces in society? When we encounter radicalised forces and when strange and anti-democratic attitudes are flashed in public, we must speak loudly and clearly and immediately. That is why the absolute inviolability of freedom of expression is absolutely essential. The important thing for Denmark is not whether a given citizen has some parents who are brown or light-beige-bleaching like me. The important thing is not whether you eat vegan or halal, meatballs or frog's legs. The important thing is not whether you believe in God or Allah. The important thing is whether you are a participating democratic citizen, whether you understand and respect democracy, freedom, the duty of society. The important objective is that we have citizens, Danes, men and women who contribute to our society and whose children are brought up to do the same. It is important for free and voluntary communities to safeguard the rights and freedoms that we treasure so much and to combat the forces that aim to harm the surrounding society. In a free society we have many privileges: the freedom to live as you like and the right to believe in what you want, among other things. But the privileges are inextricably linked to duties. It is duties that apply to all citizens: the duty to take responsibility for one's own life and for one's family, the duty to give one's own life to the community, the duty to protect one's own freedom and that of others. For too long we have been too poor to demand self-reliance, for example. Too many are outside the labour market. One that the safest keys to initially decode a society and to feel like a part of the community is to have a job. A work provides insight into how the community thinks, what values for them are a matter of course, what unwritten rules to know when you are not rounded by families with 100-year-old roots in the Jutland potato fields. If people are required to work and support themselves, then they and their children will become much more part of the community that we all have. It is the community that is the Danish. So instead of once again holding the media and citizens of this country hostage in a false debate about food habits and demanding DNA mapping of people's ethnic origins before letting them rent themselves into housing in certain postal numbers, let us remind each other of what the real problem is and work to find a solution. The Liberal Alliance supports it by Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen read out the text for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505134746	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so the next speaker in the rapporteur's line is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505134757	Thank you. Together with Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left, Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten, and Jacob Mark, SF, I have been involved in calling this debate. Now I have been listening to the debate and, in fact, I think it has been a much better debate than the last time, because we have confirmed each other in the debate, and that is why we have called for this question debate that adults and children coming from non-western countries can, of course, be Danish, and that is the whole purpose of this debate. In fact, I think we are getting a little shot in the shoes. It has mainly affected Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen that we have deliberately misled and deliberately misinterpreted. I remember the debate that day in the Parliamentary Chamber, and I was actually the last person to ask a question, and I put a question to the Minister. Now I have not been able to recheck, so I am not sure that I can repeat it literally, but I can remember very clearly what my intention with the question was, and it was whether the parties, when one could misunderstand it, got up in the debate that day, so would not reformulate it. But it was clearly rejected that day, and now we should not misinterpret something. It is really a pity that it has been misinterpreted, but it is just very difficult not to misinterpret it, because it is not just us in here; it is also the long, long series of people from whom I am sure we have all received e-mails, who are people of ethnic origin other than Danish, and who felt violently affected. It may, of course, be, as Mr Ellemann-Jensen asked, that we have been instrumental in this regard on the day the debate was held in the Assembly, but nevertheless I do not think we can expect the discussions we have in the Assembly Chamber and the proposals for adoption that are being adopted to be kept secret, because it is all public and that is to say that it is people who are listening, and that is what has led to that debate. So I'm also incredibly happy that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen read out the statement that I think is really, really fine, because it is important to stress that one can be Danish, no matter where one comes from, it is also about how one feels inside the heart, i.e. whether one feels like a Dane, and we should be careful not to take a patent to define from this platform. That is what happened that day, and that is what we came to that day, on the basis of the proposal for adoption that was adopted on that day, and so we cannot escape that, whether we like it or not. I really think it is a pity, although it is fair enough that it is being downgraded to be just because there were some opposition parties in here that shot the other parties something in their shoes. I really want to say that we should leave it alone. I think it is very good that we have this debate today, where we actually get confirmation of each other that one can of course be Danish, even if one is not of Danish origin. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen then referred to a whole series of facts. If you go in and look at whether there are problems in these areas, you will see that yes, there are mega housing problems, there are social challenges and there are also employment challenges, but that is where I support Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen's 100 per cent view of what the facts are, and I can repeat them: we know that 82 per cent. of all descendants from non-western countries have not yet reached the age of 25, which means that they have not yet entered the labour market in fact. That is why we must remember, because it was also part of the debate that day that there are huge unemployment problems. We just have to remember to put it in relief. We also know that these people have serious problems getting out of these residential areas. We know from mino.dk that someone with a Middle Eastern-Sounding name should seek 27 per cent. We know that among the five largest groups of immigrants it is only barely 25 per cent who have an disposable income of more than DKr 30,000. per household. The corresponding figure for majority dancers is just over 65 per cent. So yes, there are some challenges that we can address here in the Folketing and which we then have different political views of what we should do about. There are clearly some issues, and if it were up to the alternative, of course those were the things we were trying to do about at first. So let me conclude here and say that I think this debate actually meets the purpose that I think we had in the opposition parties, namely to discuss what it really means to be Danish, and there I hear that there is, fortunately, a broad majority. I would like to say once again that of course one can be Danish, even if one comes from a non-Western country or is a descendant from there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135335	There is one for a brief remark. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135341	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock for her speech now. I am actually very sensitive to the latter, namely that if this debate could have had an enlightening effect in relation to the wider population there is a five-six pieces up there in the gallery, and hopefully there are some more that come with the well then it may have served some purpose. Well? But if Mrs Josephine Fock thought that it was a misunderstanding or that something could be misunderstood on the day when we had the motion for a resolution from which the debate is due today, then has there not also been a responsibility to refute the misunderstanding and ensure that that misunderstanding does not spread and that there are no innocent people who are saddened and trampled on their toes, instead of taking part in the campaign which is being skillfully orchestrated by Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen? Do you not have an obligation, even when you represent a new political culture, to say, rather than run with it, that is actually not what they said?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135455	Yeah, I'd like to acknowledge that. But I myself was personally affected on the day of the debate that came on the basis of the proposal for adoption, and I was touched on that. I must clearly acknowledge that the Minister said very clearly: no, we cannot change this proposal for adoption, because it is too late, and that cannot be formally done. It may not be possible to do so formally, but then you can say it here from the platform. I am sure you can: it sounds as if it might be misunderstood, so of course we have to do something about it. There, I think, we all bear a responsibility for how these proposals for adoption land in this Chamber so that they cannot be misunderstood. It is a fact that there were very, very many people, and Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. I was also contacted by adopted children, and I think it was Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen or Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen who mentioned something similar. This means that we have come to write something and now I say we say that despite the fact that I was not co-responsible for the proposal for adoption which is really, very many people on their toes, and we must have a joint responsibility to clean that up. At least that is what I intend to do with this debate today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135612	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135616	I think that is very good, and I myself am participating in it. In the period after the debate we had there, I myself also took an active part in the public debate to say: No, that is not what we meant; no, we never meant that; no, we do not think so; yes, you can easily be pear Danish, even if you were not born in Denmark, etc. etc. I simply do not think that I saw the alternative on the same side as myself, that is, on the side that wanted to combat the misunderstanding. I think I just saw Mrs. Josephine Fock stand and hand the canister of gasoline to the Radicals, and that annoys me. Because if we accept from the alternative that this is not what we meant, then there was no reason to play along with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135705	But then I can say clearly that one of the reasons why I have also wanted this debate today, and that I also thought that the proposal for adoption was a problem, is that for me it was another wrong step in relation to the way we are debating and the rhetoric we have when we talk about people of ethnic origin other than Danish. It has gone far too far in Denmark as regards the way in which we refer to other groups of people who have not just been born as ethnic Danish. I was really fond of sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his report. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also went out publicly and said: we need to have a proper form of debate; we need to have a proper rhetoric when we talk about people with ethnic origins other than Danish. On the contrary, we also have problems with integration. We are actively helping to disfellowship some groups at the moment, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135758	There is one more for a brief comment. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135803	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Josephine Fock whether the alternative thinks that it is a problem that we in Denmark have areas where Danes are de facto in a minority. If you think that everyone can be Danes and that they just have to set foot on Danish soil to be so, then I can understand that you don't think there is a problem. I would like to know whether the alternative is of the opinion that there is a problem, I think, over 20 residential areas in Denmark, where the Danes are statistically in minorities. Is this a positive development and does the alternative want us to see more of that development? And is the alternative politically and in principle opposed to pointing out that, statistically speaking, there are areas in Denmark where Danes are in the minority?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505135856	Well, now I think that Mr. Knox... Martin Henriksen reiterates what is in the proposal for adoption when it comes to the definition of Danes. But if I just put it aside and answer the question, I would say that I think we should make sure that, if you have a different ethnic background from Danish, you have the same opportunities to seek housing and that you have the same opportunities to have an income that majority dancers have, so that we do not get these very, very socially burdened residential areas. As I also think someone said earlier this day in his rapporteur's speech: if we look at the crime statistics, we can see that things are going much better, but if we look at who is afraid to go out at night, we can see that it is precisely the people who live in those residential areas that it is precisely people with ethnic origins other than Danish. That's where we're gonna go. So yes, there are problems, but we need to address them with the tools that we know can help, and that is to give people the opportunity to live in other areas and get into the labour market, get an education and so on. As far as the labour market is concerned, we have, of course, supported the agreement that has been made with the government in relation, among other things, to. to get refugees into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140013	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140014	If you look at the Danish people, it is the case that there are certain characteristics. The Danish people speak Danish; the Danish Fok has a common culture, some common traditions; we also have some freedoms, we have a constitution, etc. It is part of the package, and that is what defines Denmark and the Danish people. Does Mrs Josephine Fock agree with that? That's one part. If the alternative agrees with that, does the alternative also agree that you have to acquire these things if you want to be considered a Dane? It has nothing to do with your background or skin color; it has something to do with taking cultural things into account. Does the alternative mean that you have to do so in order to be considered a Dane? I should not hide the fact that we in the Danish People's Party believe that this should be done, of course. That's why we say it's statistical, but it's also something you can see when you move into some of these ghetto areas, etc. So I would also just like to ask, for the sake of good order, whether Mrs Josephine Fock can confirm that the proposal for adoption, which was adopted last time, refers to the official statements in this area and that it is the case that in the statements adopted children are actually registered as children of Danish origin? It's just for the record, so it's in place too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140140	Well, I can answer the last one first. It is absolutely true that adopted children are registered as ethnic Danish, and that is also what I explained to the adopted children who made contact with me. But that does not change the fact that they have been affected. In relation to the other questions, as Mr. Martin Henriksen asks, so I would like to say that, after I have become rapporteur in the field of people on the run and new Danes, I am actually trying to get around Denmark a lot and talk to the people we are talking about here. There are people with all sorts of different cultural backgrounds, and there are people with different religious beliefs, and whether they have different cultural backgrounds or religious beliefs, there are very, very many of them who feel like Danes, or they feel like, for example. as Danish Pakistanis or Danish Somalis. I think they should be allowed to do so, and I think we should give them the opportunity that they can, of course, become part of Danish society. I think so too, sir. Martin Henriksen agrees, but we do not do so with the rhetoric we are in the process of driving all over the country at the moment, compared to constantly stigmatising the groups mentioned. So I think we should remember to include each other in the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140256	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments at the moment. The next speaker is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen as rapporteur for the SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140308	I could understand that, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. But I may now think that the government and the Danish People's Party themselves are a little to blame for this. For the sentence in question was quite wrong. And then it is part of such a context where the National Conservatives have started to test everything, in relation to whether it is Danish enough, and that is where I think the Left should take a greater fight with the national conservative flow that has come up and which the Danish People's Party represents. For the thing about testing too, whether it is Danish enough and what is Danish, is, to put it mildly, a rather difficult discussion. When Poul Henningsen released his Danish film in 1935, there were wild protests. It had been imagined that it would be a film about Dybbøl Mølle and Dannebrog and beech forests and gymnastics girls and gymnastics boys etc. And instead it was people who went to work and cycled, people who produced, chimneys with smoke in and jazz music. It was not the high school song book; it was jazz music, Negro music, as it was called. How could there be Negro music in a film about Denmark? That's how the National Conservatives reacted back then. Today, however, no one will be stumbled at all by the fact that there is jazz music in a film about Denmark or descriptions of people working or cycling at work if one had to describe Denmark. That is why this whole debate is also insanely fluent. In other words, what is perceived in the better circles at one point as being Danish is something else at another time. And in that sense, this discussion is really important enough. It's just to warn against us getting into such a big guessing contest about what it is to be Danish, and that there must now always be tests of all sorts of people whether they are Danish enough, and that we are about to discuss what the Danish DNA is or what you can imagine. This rather strange discussion arises from a question debate on ghetto formation, and I think that is certainly worth discussing. Because ghettos are, in our opinion, a bad thing. They make people shut themselves down, and that means there's no vision. It creates problems, and you see the problems as something that is part of the ghetto, instead of seeing them as part of society outside, and therefore in every respect it is a bad development in every respect. But it is not a question of whether you are Danish or not. It is a matter of housing policy that has been misguided and of a social policy that has been misguided and an employment policy that has not worked. So let us look at the whole ghettoisation from what it is primarily, and not from whether it is Danish or not, but from some social problems which are in certain residential areas and which are also known in virtually all other countries. So it is no wonder that there is that problem, but we have to solve it somehow, and we can solve such things here in Denmark, we have a good tradition of it. It is not because we are Danish, but because we are smart and work together on it and discuss it and try to involve people instead of excluding them. That is why this discussion of Danishism, which the National Conservatives advocate, has had the terrible consequence that people have been excluded, and that is also why someone has responded as they have done. So not on the basis of a single small sentence that frightened people, or because of a campaign by the opposition, but because it was part of a context where there were so many negative comments from the Danish People's Party and also from the Left about foreigners and non-dancing people, where you have always had to drive up against the wall: Are you Danish enough? Are you really Danish? And then you get into a defense position all the time in relation to this. That is one of the reasons why there is such a violent reaction when, if I may say so, one could interpret a vote in the Folketing in a way that it could be said that one was not really Danish.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140818	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140821	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. I am glad that the message that I am a little upset about this debate has also fallen into good ground, or how it is expressed, with Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen. I can't help noticing that it's an interesting attitude to have to things when you say: you did it yourself. But that is not in itself an excuse enough to convey the wrong message. If sir... Holger K. Nielsen thinks what he's saying, so this shouldn't be about Danishism, because it's exclusive and in fact an annoying parameter to measure, so I have such respect for it. But why on earth would Mr. Holger K. Nielsen saw today the name of a debate about when you are a Dane, i.e. if it is an irrelevant debate? I mean, excuse me, but it's a waste of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505140924	It's a little bit about monkey throwing here, isn't it? However, this is due to the previous proposal for adoption. Well, all this starts with a debate about ghettos, about ghettoism, and then it turns into a debate about Danishism, right? And then there comes a proposal for adoption which is misunderstood by many people not entirely wrongly, I think, but it is misunderstood, I agree with that. And then we have to take this debate. So it has exactly the background to what is happening. There is a discussion about ghettoisation, which I think is an important issue to discuss, and it gets so mixed up with whether you are Danish or not. That's where it all lies, and then it's no longer than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141006	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141009	No, it really should not be, and that is why I am rather surprised that it is so important for the SF, for the alternative, for the Enhedslisten and for the Radical Left to continue this debate, despite the fact that all parties stand up and say that we should really talk about what we should have talked about that day, namely the compositions of residents, ghetto formations, etc. Then why haven't you raised a debate about it instead of raising a debate about what you think is irrelevant? It's just not logical for me, and it's not to participate in monkey throwing, but I just don't understand it. If sir... Holger K. Nielsen thinks this debate is irrelevant, so don't raise it! Then we could have lasted the weekend.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141054	This specific debate is not irrelevant, it is actually very relevant because the governing parties and the Danish People's Party came to run a debate on ghettoisation of the track and made a proposal for adoption which was as misunderstood as it was now and which frightened a lot of people. Then it is very relevant, I think, and quite all right that we try to put it in place. But that doesn't change the fact that I think it's something weird that every time you discuss some problem in ghettos or elsewhere, it has to be made a matter of Danishness that the National Conservatives tend to. I'm still missing to see Mr. Knox. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141146	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and since the Left has spoken on behalf of the Conservative People's Party, it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141206	Thank you. Perhaps I think that today's debate has been particularly marked by the fact that we from the bourgeois parties have been somewhat puzzled by the enthusiasm shown by the Left when it comes to giving us motives and intentions that we have never had. That is, of course, a debate which has been going on for a few months. I think it may be that the peaked and it is very negative meant on the day the Radical Left chose to share a highly manipulative video with recordings of crying children to try to shoot us some motives in the shoes that we do not have at all. I might as well just say it plainly: I think it's distasteful. I do not think it belongs anywhere at all, and I do not think it is worthy when the Radical Left takes such actions, knowing that it is completely against everything that has to do with the real world. Today, the discussion has, it has to be said, waved a little back and forth. I still think it is with a very manipulative tone from the left. It was actually so manipulative that when Mrs Josephine Fock stood up here on the platform a few minutes ago and said that during the first debate on Danishism she had asked me whether it could not be changed in the proposal for adoption, because it could be misunderstood, I simply could not remember the question from Mrs Josephine Fock, and Mrs Josephine Fock could be listened to, that she could not remember what I had answered during the first debate on Danishism. Mrs Josephine Fock cannot be thought of in that she did not ask me any questions at all. Mrs Josephine Fock did not ask me one question that day. I have just been through the debates in Parliament. That's very manipulative. Then it can be said that Mrs Josephine Fock had been wrong and had put the question to my party colleague, Mr Fock. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, who was rapporteur that day. But no, Mrs. Josephine Fock did not ask Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt that day. I think it might say a little bit about the form of debate here in the Folketing, and I think it might also say a tiny bit about morality. Here I actually went and thought that the alternative had set up some completely new rules and standards for how the debate should be in the Folketing, but if it is this kind of rules that you have set up, where you are deeply manipulative and shoot people motives in the shoes that they have never had, and even if it is here on the Speaker's Chair of the Folketing and say things that are directly untrue, I thank you for coffee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141534	There are two brief comments, and we will take them. The first one's from sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141545	Thank you. I therefore agree with much of what the Minister has said. It is of course no secret that we in the Danish People's Party have been very happy all the way through with the proposal for adoption that was adopted last time, and I really did not have any need to clarify something that was already clarified in that debate. However, for the sake of good order, I would like to hear how the Minister feels about the proposal for adoption, which was adopted last time and which we in the Danish People's Party believe to be equal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141616	In any case, it can be said that a debate came out of the debate which did not belong anywhere. And, of course, it was because there were some who chose very actively to misunderstand the text of the adoption. I really think that if you look at the debate itself and not at the text of the resolution, it is clear what was meant at the time. The fact that some people have chosen to manipulate it and that is what the left is saying, I believe, by the Radical Left, but there are more who are trying to get into the driver's field there; by the way, not a very beautiful driver's field, I would say, is so another matter. At least I think that if you look at what Mr. Martin Henriksen said that day during the debate, there is certainly nothing to be mistaken about. And the left could actually have done the opportunity to look at what was actually said during the debate and not just manipulate it afterwards. But that is perhaps a bit of what we heard from the alternative earlier here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141715	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141716	Thank you. I understand that the Minister really thinks that the proposal for adoption which was put forward last was a very good proposal. Then the Minister will have to correct me if the Minister thinks I have to understand it in a different way. Then I would like to ask whether the Minister does not think that the debate on Danishism is a relevant debate to take. Because what you see, if you look at the Danish people, is that it is thus characterized by certain things: we speak Danish, we have a common culture, common traditions, some common freedoms, etc. And there is not too much to demand of people who come here and fall to, no matter where they come from, and if they have refugee backgrounds, the Danish People's Party believes that they should be sent back home again, and all that is going to stay here and start a family, etc., that they will have to take part in Danish society and to some extent take the culture and traditions into account if they are to be seen by the surrounding society and by the majority population as Danish. And it is very, very important that Parliament and the government make it a very clear demand for these people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141820	Well, I think I have said this many times in the past, including in today's debate. So you are a Dane when you are a Danish citizen, and then I think you also have a clear obligation to take the Danish value set into account. I do not think that integration is about us all bent a little towards each other and meeting in the middle. It is about the fact that when you live in Denmark, you have to take the Danish set of values into account: our traditions, our standards and values • the very fact that you can say what you want; that you can draw what you want; that you can believe in the god you want; and that there is complete equality. That's what it's all about when you're a Dane. And you have to speak the language, of course, and support yourself. I think that is straightforward. It must be that way. One just looked at it to conclude with the adoption: well, it has been a deeply manipulative debate that has been led by the Radical Left and which I just don't think belongs anywhere. There is not a single person here in the Danish Parliament who has been in doubt about what was actually in that vote at the time, but one has just wanted to make controversy out of it. And then weeping children have even been used.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141936	Now we have one more brief comment. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505141940	I hardly know how to answer the Minister's speech. I have in no way tried to pinpoint the credibility of the Minister. Now I'm just trying to find my comment I can't just find it technically, but I remember asking the question, and I remember being answered in exactly the same way as now, that is to say, the fact that you are being told. In fact, I think that we have had a debate today that says that people can be Danes, whether they have a non-Western background, and I think that is very positive. So if the minister wants to continue this trench war, I actually think it's too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505142025	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505142027	The only thing I can say is that I have been through the parliamentary debates and no question was asked by Mrs Josephine Fock either to me or to Mr Fock. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505142039	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505142041	Well, I can just say that I will try to rediscover the issue. And I must be able to watch it on TV if it is not technically listed on the website. Yes, I asked the Minister questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505142056	Does the Minister have any more answers? The Minister has not, and we thank the Minister. There are no more speakers and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. And I would point out that the vote on the four proposals for adoption will be held on Tuesday 9 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505142128	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505142154	Thank you. I would like to start by stating that it is absolutely crucial to me that refugees who come to this country respect and live up to the democratic principles and freedoms that apply here in Denmark. Part of that is also respect for people and their personal integrity. I am therefore pleased to see that, with this motion for a resolution, the SF is waking up and recognising that we need a break with the anxiety of touch and misunderstood tolerance in the area of integration. We can never compromise on our fundamental freedoms and gender equality and the individual's right to decide on his or her own life and body. That applies to all of us, women and men, no matter where we come from. Therefore, it is also government policy that newly arrived refugees should be informed early and very clearly about the rules and standards and values that apply in Denmark. We must demand that everyone adheres to these common rules, whether they agree with them or not. At the same time, we must prevent some refugees and immigrants from being allowed to isolate themselves in parallel societies where social oppression can take place, bearing in mind that it is of great harm to both young women and also men who are exposed to it. After all, it is also to the detriment of integration in general. This requires an effort to provide information, and that effort is already beginning at the asylum centres today. The government has therefore ensured that asylum seekers arriving in the country are quickly introduced to the current democratic principles, equality and sexual morality in Denmark. If I am to be specific, this means that the asylum applicant course at the asylum centres in the country already includes separate training on equality, women's and minorities' rights and sexual morality, and that the same topics will also be included in a standard education package, which will be published before the summer holidays, and which will be used in the training of asylum centres for those people who have then obtained asylum but are waiting to be moved to a municipality. In addition, the new residents aged between 12 and 17 at the country's asylum centres are to be offered, at least six times a year, sexual guidance. I therefore fully agree with the need for the teaching required by the SF and also very much welcome the fact that SF is sending a signal of clear support for it, but I believe that at the same time SF is proposing something that has already been realised. Health and sex education and family knowledge are a mandatory subject which must be included in nursery education and compulsory subjects of 1-9th grade. It is then up to the individual head of the school to decide which subjects the teaching should be included in. The training shall include, inter alia: contribute to students' understanding of norms and ideals for gender, body and sexuality, and also how understanding is influenced by the society in which they live. The teaching here also needs to strengthen the students' ability to act in relation to their own life. We know that there are young people who unfortunately suffer from traditional perceptions of gender and sexuality and who are subjected to social control. The teaching of the subject is therefore important for that group of young people, so that they know exactly their rights in order to be able to refrain from oppression. The government would therefore like to introduce an evaluation of the mandatory subject in order to follow up on whether the teaching of the subject can be strengthened. At the same time, rights and freedoms and equality are a central part of the foundation for both the primary school and the rest of our society and therefore cannot be isolated to include only the teaching of a particular subject on the school curriculum. It's supposed to permeate the entire school's operation, in my opinion. Education on the subject of health and sex education and family knowledge must be included in the existing subjects, and it is up to the individual head of the school to decide in which subjects the subject should be included in the teaching. The Government therefore considers that it would be inappropriate to start introducing an indicative hourly figure for a subject which should already be included in the subjects for which hours have been allocated. This would either result in a longer school day or a downgrading of the number of hours in the school's other subjects. In addition, we believe that the teaching of the subject is strengthened by the fact that it is thought into the subjects of the school where it is of the highest value in terms of local conditions. In relation to the free primary schools, it is absolutely essential that they can plan and carry out the teaching with the freedom that makes them different from the primary school. At the same time, however, we have taken steps to support free primary schools in preparing pupils for their living in a society of freedom and democracy. In spring 2016, a political agreement was reached to strengthen the quality of the free primary schools, which, in particular, further highlight the need for them to live up to and prepare pupils to live in a society of freedom and popular rule. It also includes gender equality. With the agreement, the schools were obliged to develop and strengthen the democratic education of pupils. In addition, the supervision of schools in relation to precisely preparing pupils for living in a society of freedom and democracy was strengthened, and the agreement includes, among other things, the following: More stringent measures compared with schools under enhanced supervision. Following the agreement in 2017, the Ministry of Education will conduct thematic supervision of the requirement for education in freedom and democracy in a number of free primary schools with a particular focus on gender equality, including education on health and sex education and family knowledge. In other words, the government fully supports the intention behind the SF's motion for a resolution that we must ensure that refugees and immigrants and their descendants have sufficient knowledge of the democratic basic principles, including gender equality, which apply in Denmark. Against this background, the government would like to carry out an evaluation, as proposed here, of the subject of health and sex education and family knowledge in primary school to see if the teaching of the subject can be strengthened and how it really works. When it comes to the existing asylum applicant course, it already contains training on issues such as gender equality and women's rights, and the government therefore sees no need to extend the course on this point. The Government does not believe that an indicative number of hours should be set for the subject of health and sex education and family knowledge in primary schools or free primary schools. So the government cannot support the overall motion for a resolution. But there is one point here that we support. And otherwise I can say that we also agree with the intentions behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505143022	Thank you, Minister. There are no comments right now. Maybe it'll come later. Then we start with the rapporteur's line, and I understand that it is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, draftsman of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505143049	Following the immigration of asylum seekers from Syria, I have for some time followed the path of some younger asylum seekers, and after they have received asylum, the way of refugees into Danish society. In this connection, I was this morning at 1 p.m. 6.00 round pieces and coffee in a van in Albertslund, where they have got two Syrian construction workers into language practice. I talk to them every once in a while to hear what it's like to get to the Danish community. They've been building workers in Syria, and now they're in Denmark and how they experience it. They're gonna get the tools in place, and they're gonna get the pace in place, as well as the quality. It is more the values that are in Denmark that are difficult to adapt. This morning, one of them had ended up in the Polish crew. When I was talking to them, I wondered what would actually happen to me if I moved with my family to Poland. Would I raise my children with the values that are now in Poland? Would I raise them for abortion to be a sin and for homosexuality to be a sin? Of course I would not, and with that it is so reasonable if you come from Syria, ask me why they should raise their children according to our values if I do not want to raise my children according to Polish values if I moved to Poland; that is double standards. Maybe they're right and then they're not. Because I don't think it's about double standards. I believe that it would be a matter of value relativism if we were to say that one should only raise one's children according to the values of the country in which one is now staying. Why, then, is it that I think these two Syrians should raise their children according to the Danish values and not according to the Syrian values? It's because I think our values are better. I can't think of any other arguments. Well, it's better to go for free abortion than to be against free abortion, and it's better to give your daughter the opportunity to marry whoever she wants than to arrange the marriage for her. With this I understand that it can be difficult for people to replant their values and their culture to Danish society. I understand. It must be seen as a huge abuse, but there are not really other ways around it. All of us who stand here on the edge and look into this value struggle, which many young Muslims are facing in Denmark, only experience the surface of how violently divided and how violent a social pressure there is in these environments. Imagine, for example. a young Danish Muslim boy come home to his family and say he was gay. That's not gonna happen. Imagine a girl coming home and saying that now she has decided to drop the scarf or that she wants to be a boyfriend with a guy who has Danish parents. Or imagine she's coming home and saying she wants an abortion. Or imagine she's saying this year she won't join the Ramadan. Or imagine that she says she will practice her religion in a different way than the parents have encouraged her to. In practice, in Denmark, a large part of the freedoms that apply to the rest of us do not apply to these young people and there is a violent ideological struggle about the values on which they should base their lives. Everything we only see on the surface is a raw and brutal ideological battle for the soul and identity of young Muslims. I do not see it as a fight against Islam, but I see it as a struggle for the ideals of the Enlightenment. After all, none of the parties in this Parliament have fought that the ideals of the Enlightenment should be realized in Danish society, which has believed that this was true only for people with blue eyes. We have always believed that this was the case for everyone, and this also applies, of course, to the young Muslims who grow up in Denmark in part of the families who have now come here, also in the last few years. I see SF's motion for a resolution as an attempt to get the state, the official Denmark, to join that struggle and stand on the side of the Enlightenment and ensure that the people who come here will also be children of the ideals of the Enlightenment. We can only support that, and that is why we have chosen from the Social Democrats to support that resolution, although it does not happen so often that we support resolutions, but we think it is important not only to send that signal, but also that the Folketing takes it very seriously that in the fight for the identity and ideals and values of young Muslims, Danish society becomes more clear that we stand firm that freedoms also apply to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505143534	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, and we have the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505143543	Thank you. I can already say from the Danish People's Party that we cannot support the proposal, but we are happy to discuss whether more can be done, whether some education can be organized in some way in a more sensible way. But I also think it has to be said that the Left bears part of the responsibility for the fact that it has gone as wrong as it has gone, because you think or you try to convince people that little education can remove over 1,000 years of cultural influence when people just come to Denmark, and if they get a few lessons in one or the other, we have just managed to do that. Moreover, it is nothing new that education attempts to influence the people who come to Denmark. This has been done for some time in various ways, and it has not exactly been overwhelming with the results that we see. But having said that, we are happy to look at whether you can do something with the education that you receive, for example, in primary school. In other words, we have no problem with just providing a service. But I would now like to say that if we really have to deal with these problems, we will not get out of the way, as I said in my previous rapporteur's speech, of what is the reason why we have these problems in Danish society. And that is the immigration that comes here, and especially the immigration that comes here from Muslim countries. That is why we must also do away with some of the things that symbolise, for example, the oppression of women in Islam, that is to say, some of the Muslim symbols, for example. the scarf, gender-separated swimming lessons, etc. We must be much more clear about rejecting the cultural standards which are the cause of the problems. Having said that, however, we obviously have no problem discussing whether more needs to be done on the educational part, but we do not want to convince people that better education basically solves the problems. So that is the comment from this point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505143733	I would like to thank the rapporteur and the next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505143752	Thank you. There should be no doubt that the Left fully understands the background and intentions of the proposal. Do we need to be the guarantors of our integration policy to help those who come to Denmark? It is our conviction in the Left that this is what we do best by learning from us about our values and ensuring that we do not isolate ourselves in parallel societies and are subjected to social control. If new arrivals are to have a healthy and fresh start, we also have a responsibility to help them integrate. The fact that agreement with the authors of the motion for a resolution will end and that the Left will not be able to support the motion for a resolution is due to a number of factors which I will mention in the following terms: with our integration policy, we must be guarantors to help those who come to Denmark, and the proposers then propose that the existing introduction courses at asylum centres should be extended to human rights in general and that refugees should also have an insight into the standards we have in Denmark. The fact is that asylum seekers' courses at asylum centres already include equality, sexual morality and women's rights. So that is why it is a good proposal, and so it is so good a proposal that it has already been introduced and thus is subject to the rules in force. When I read the resolution, I was delighted that the battle with social control was in focus because social control is contrary to all the Danish values of freedom that we know and that help characterise our society. That is why the government would also like to participate in an evaluation of health and sex education, as proposed by the proposers, because if we are to combat social control and succeed in integrating newly arrived refugees, they must also know their rights and learn to refrain from injustice. Finally, the authors of the motion for a resolution call for an indicative number of hours to be introduced for sex education education. This is inappropriate, and it is because it will interfere with the ability of schools to organise education. This could affect the length of school day, etc., downgrade the number of hours spent in other subjects, because it is the case that hours have already been set aside for sex education to be included in other subjects. Against this background, therefore, the Left cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144026	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144035	Human rights, equality, women's rights, men's rights, health and sex education and family knowledge are all important issues. And these are important issues, whether one was born in Denmark by pear Danish parents or whether one has come here as a refugee. Nor is there any doubt that many of the people who come here as refugees now come from countries and cultures that are very different from Danish culture and Danish society. And that is why it is also absolutely crucial that these people, for example. is told that in Denmark you can divorce, and as a woman, as a mother, you have rights over your children when you divorce. There are other countries where you don't have that. It is important that you are told that you actually have to decide for yourself who you marry, that there is something called the right to abortion, etc. etc. I think the intention of this proposal is a good one, but if we look at that part, such as the one we are discussing here. As far as asylum seekers are concerned, it is already the case today that these elements are part of the introduction course that asylum seekers receive when they arrive. So I think that perhaps we could work a little more on the content of the proposal. Then there's the other part about strengthening sex education. That's very reasonable. The Enhedslisten has shown, moreover, together with the SF, I believe, and other parties have on several occasions tabled resolutions to strengthen the norm-critical sex education both in primary and free schools, i.e. at primary school level, and also in upper secondary education. We think the intention in this proposal is good: to strengthen the focus on equality in our society and also towards people who come here from other countries, so that we are absolutely sure that we are fully informed about the rights of people in Denmark. At the same time, however, we must say that it already exists a little. I am sure we can find a way of getting something sensible done together in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144254	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144307	With this proposal, the proposers want to strengthen knowledge of human rights, equality and sex education aimed at young people of other ethnic backgrounds. It is an important idea that people who come here should have an introduction to how things work in Denmark, and gender equality is very important in the context. We see a number of problems in the ethnic environments and it is healthy that people learn the rules of the game from the start. However, we can see that the proposed training in the asylum centres is already taking place. In our view, this is not a major problem in terms of the number of hours required for sex education in primary school. After all, the best thing is that each school organises the teaching in a way that makes the best sense there, and since sex education is not an independent subject but has to be meaningfully included in the other subjects, we would prefer schools to have the necessary flexibility. To the extent that there are places where sex education is too inadequate for you to be able to live in Danish society, you should focus on those schools. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144419	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144435	Thank you. The proposal we are debating here is a proposal from the SF which encourages us to extend the introduction course at asylum centres to human rights, including equality and women's rights, to an evaluation of the subject of health, sex and family education, and to provide for an indicative number of hours in all primary schools in sex education. The proposal is motivated by the fact that it is in order to combat social control. This is clearly a challenge with which we must work and which we must try to solve. It is also a challenge which we know contains a great many complex issues and probably more than those just addressed in this resolution, which I think is important to take into account. In fact, in the alternative, we would like to extend the education in the asylum phase so that it is generally much more socially oriented, including: What about the Danish education system? What does that mean? What does the Danish health service mean? What does our monarchy mean? What does the division of power mean? What does the Danish model mean for the negotiating system with the trade union movement and employers etc. etc. I don't know what to call a class like that. I've been thinking that it should be a course in community orientation. And the elements that the SF points to here must clearly be included in such a course. Then I think it would be sensible to make an evaluation of the education we have today, and in this context we could talk about whether it should continue to be like today, when, as I said, we would like to spread it much more. I certainly have a positive approach to the motion for a resolution, but we would like it if we could report in committee on what we really think we should do, because, as I said, I think this is a little bit of what is needed. I could point out several other things that I have also mentioned in my speech that could be relevant. Then I would like to say here publicly to the Minister and I agree that it is for a debate from the previous round that I am lying flat, because the minister is right. I did not put a question to the Minister, but it was Mr. Naser Khader, to whom I asked the question, if the statement about being Danish and not Danish and the problems could be misunderstood, could change it. I got the answer from the platform that you couldn't. I regret that to the Minister. I should just like to say that this shows that I certainly do not take account of whether one is of Danish origin or of non-Danish origin, because, as I said, it was Mr. Naser Khader, I asked the question. But I am sorry that I took the Minister's money for it. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144730	Thank you to the rapporteur. As it is a little late in the day and there have been approximately the same rapporteurs all day, I will let it go through that two debates are mixed together. I am fully aware of this). That's good, and so was I. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505144748	Thank you. I would also like to thank the SF for raising this debate. I fully agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that this is too many to fight for the ideals of the Enlightenment. And there are some values that are better than others, and we must stand by that. From my perspective and from the perspective of the Radical Left, it is very much a struggle for freedom. Many of the people fleeing to Denmark come here and have fled because they have been fighting for freedom against oppression, and we must reach out to them. It is extremely important to be quite clear about the freedoms that apply here: human rights, equality and women's rights; and everything we can do to make it even clearer, we would like to contribute to in the Radical Left. Then I would like to say something quite specific about the various elements of the motion for a resolution. I could also hear from the Minister and some of the rapporteurs that a great deal of what is in the introduction course already exists. At any rate, I myself have participated in an introduction course on gender equality, human rights and women's rights in one of the country's asylum centres. There was confusion about the elements being played here, but if there is something that can be made clearer or even better, then we would like to contribute to it. It is also difficult to oppose an evaluation of the profession of health and sex education to see if it also has sufficient quality. Then there is the last point about indicative hours in primary school, and here I think a little different elements are being mixed together in this motion for a resolution. Because it's kind of a different regime we're in here and something else we're over to mess with. I would almost like the resolution to focus on the asylum centres, in other words on what happens when you come here, how you are helped to get to know our political rights, and how we help young people who need to use these rights as soon as they get here if they continue to be subjected to any kind of social control or repression. But also in the Radical Left, we are in favour and hope that it will find some form for which support can be found if there is a need to clarify this even more. At least we are fully in line with this objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505145056	Thank you to the rapporteur. The Conservative rapporteur is not here. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505145111	Thank you for the discussion, which I think has been very positive and also very inclusive in relation to what we are trying to do with this proposal. There can, I understand, be a few questions raised to parts of what we must then look at. There is something that is not exactly described. We have to take a look at that too. But basically it is about what has also been mentioned by several people: social control and also about what Danish society is about in terms of human rights, women's rights, equality, freedom, etc. I think that is a very important discussion. As far as social control is concerned, I think that Mr. Mattias Tesfaye and also Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen described it very well. Because it is true that there are many young people from the minority environment who have some terrible dilemmas where, on the one hand, they have to be loyal to their family and their parents and some very conservative cultural patterns, from which they can not only separate themselves, but which are also part of them, and, on the other hand, a Danish society that has quite different cultural patterns. It can be extremely difficult to maneuver in the various demands that are being made to them and the different needs that they themselves have. After all, you always need to be loyal to your parents. We can all be angry with our parents and so on, but there is always some loyalty to them and, on the other hand, the demands of the parents can become so completely unreasonable that it is impossible to deal with them. That is why, as a society, when young people get into trouble here, we need to go in and help and draw attention to the problem. When it happens that they cannot free themselves, that parents sit down on them, that they must not have Danish friends, not have Danish boyfriends, must not live a life that other Danish young people live, there must be some opportunities for them, partly when they are in it, but also when they come to Denmark that they are informed about the rights they have; that it becomes part of the general information that they have some options, although it may be difficult in relation to the context and background they have. So it's in this context that we need to see this. I fully agree, as others have said, that this is not a complete solution to this problem. These are the small elements that we think may be important to address. If we can write a report and perhaps have a more comprehensive discussion of this issue on the basis of this motion for a resolution, then I think that this could be an excellent outcome. I am quite prepared to do so. So I would like to thank you for the comments in this debate and hope that we can continue to work on these matters in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505145503	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. No one else has asked for the floor. That concludes the debate. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505145520	The debate is open. Then it's the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505145546	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution for highlighting the essential issue of Danish adherence to the Safe Schools Declaration, because this is an important issue, including for the government. In several parts of the world, schools and universities are attacked, bombed or burned, just as students and teachers are killed, kidnapped or detained. Schools and universities are also used by armed forces and non-governmental groups such as bases, barracks or weapons stores. These are actions that destroy school infrastructure and which rob children and young people of the possibility of teaching and academic ambitions. Attacks on schools and educational institutions are therefore also an attack on a country's best hope for a better future. The NGO, the global coalition to protect education against attacks, has reported that between 2005 and 2015 educational institutions were used for military purposes in 26 countries. A current example is Syria, for just 2 years after the conflict broke out in the country in 2011, 2,445 schools had been damaged or destroyed, and nearly 2 million children aged 6-15 years were forced out of their schools due to the conflict. During these years, Denmark itself is engaged in international armed operations, and in this respect we are extremely aware of both the obligations incumbent on us in terms of the protection of civilians and, in particular, children, as well as the overall political objectives of our participation in these operations. Therefore, on Tuesday, May 2, 2017, the government also chose to join the Safe Schools Declaration. We did so in order to give our clear and full political support to the objective of education for children and young people in conflict situations too. For the same reason, the government would like to call for the resolution to be rejected. It has actually lost its substance, it can be said, because the government agrees with the authors of the motion for a resolution on Danish membership. Let me briefly outline the Safe Schools Declaration and explain some of the considerations that the government has constantly made in relation to Danish membership and the reason why we have now joined. The Safe Schools Declaration is an intergovernmental political expression that states have been able to support since 2015. The declaration sets a number of objectives to help reduce the number of schools, universities, pupils and teachers being attacked, including, as far as possible, the use by States of a series of guidelines in national policy as well as operational. The guidelines are not binding, they are voluntary and do not alter Denmark's existing international obligations. They aim to limit the use of schools and universities by armed forces in armed conflict, including countering attacks that could result in civilian losses as well as the destruction of buildings. It is a well-known fact that the government, both politically and NGOs, has been constantly invited to join the declaration. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen and Mr. So Jacob Mark is not the first to bring the case up. We can therefore ask ourselves why the government has not acted on these calls in the past and why we now endorse them. The answer to the two questions is connected. Since the launch of the declaration, the government has considered the question of Danish membership and, in particular, the consequences of membership, but the answer has not been straightforward. The main concern has been that the guidelines of the declaration differ in some respects from those of international humanitarian law and that it might complicate cooperation with those of our allies who have not endorsed the declaration. And it is not just theoretical considerations; these are important issues that we must take seriously for the sake of the Danish soldiers, to whom we potentially ask to take a significant risk in the military operations to which they are sent. We must be sure, both for the sake of the children and for the sake of our soldiers, that any desire for rapid political signal does not lead to unintended negative consequences at the operational level. However, there has also been a development which has had an impact on the government's further assessment of a Danish endorsement. Last autumn the Danish military manual was published, which also deals with the protection of educational institutions. The Government has subsequently assessed that Denmark, when implementing the guidelines in the military manual, in practice complies with the Safe Schools Declaration. In other words, Danish membership will not further complicate the work of our skilled soldiers in the field or have consequences for our compliance with international humanitarian law. On the contrary, a Danish endorsement of the declaration will promote the important international political agenda on child protection, and this is important in itself. Another major development has been the movement among our close allies, where several of our closest military partners have now agreed to the declaration, including: France and Canada, as the authors also mention in their comments on the motion for a resolution. The government was in dialogue with the two countries before joining, and we noted that Canada, when joining, published a national declaration stating that Canadian military operations must always comply with international humanitarian law. This also means that it is not considered that the declaration involves new obligations under international law. With Denmark's agreement, a total of 64 states have now agreed to the Declaration, including all the Nordic countries and the majority of NATO countries, including Belgium and the Netherlands. Furthermore, the government is aware that other close allies at present. is considering joining. In the past, when the government has not supported a Danish endorsement of the declaration, it is therefore not about lack of support for the purpose itself. It is about the fact that we have been focused on the fact that, by joining us, we promised no more than we could keep. Because while safe schools are an important initiative, it is also important for Denmark to respect the existing international humanitarian law as described in the Danish military manual. Recent developments and proper preparatory work have shown that this is therefore possible. Finally, I would like to refer to the official declaration of acceptance published by the government. It stresses, among other things, that all parties to armed conflict must respect their international obligations to protect schools and civilians and that all parties to the conflict must respect international humanitarian law. This also applies to non-state actors. We should not forget here that there are too many examples of terrorist organisations and other non-state actors in particular, in violation of international humanitarian law, using schools, etc. to cover up their fighting. With Denmark's agreement to the Safe Schools Declaration, it is the Government's wish to support the importance of children and young people in conflict situations getting an education. This is a priority for the government, just as this motion for a resolution shows that it is also a priority for Mr Beazley. Holger K. Nielsen and Mr. Jacob Mark. In conclusion, I would like to express my support for the broad support across the Folketing that the government's agreement to the declaration enjoys. We are thus sending out a strong signal that Denmark is ready to lift our international obligations in the protection of the far too many children who are today suffering from the effects of war and violent conflicts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150259	Thank you, Minister. And then it's sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150314	Well, in fact, it has all been said now with the Minister's speech. On top of that, I have become wiser when I wrote my speech, I wrote that 59 countries had agreed to the declaration. Now it's up to 64. That is excellent, and the motives for doing so are one-sidedly good. It's clear that when sir... Holger K. Nielsen, SF, has tabled the motion for a resolution, so it is of course up to the preliminary process, namely that some questions have been asked, which were answered, that the government did not intend to join the Safe Schools Declaration, on the grounds that what the Minister also said could complicate cooperation with Denmark's closest alliance partners, because, as is then stated in another reply, the guidelines on Safe Schools Declaration have not been incorporated into NATO standards and that a number of our partners have not complied with the rules. Now the government has, and this is a good thing, turned on a plate and would like to endorse the guidelines, precisely because a number of our traditional partners have done so, and that does, in fact, make the motion for a resolution superfluous. On the other hand, it has to be said that we are dealing with a government which has shown what one might call great flexibility in attitude along the way. And in this way it can be said that it is probably very good that the Danish Parliament will have this debate and have the opportunity to make sure that the words are also translated into action. Of course we can support the resolution, but the most important thing is of course that Denmark joins the Safe Schools Declaration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments, so the next rapporteur is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150517	The Danish People's Party cannot support the resolution. We think it is unnecessary. It's a bunch of warm words, beautiful declarations of intent, but without realism. The worst thing that can be the occasion is a form of false security, where you think that the warm, beautiful words actually materialize, just because you've made a document full of good thoughts. It is far better to have realistic and realistic thinking and behavior. This is simply not the right way to conduct foreign policy. That is why we do not think it is worth supporting the motion for a resolution, but I would nevertheless like to commend the government for one point in this connection, and it is that it has been examined whether it will in fact be detrimental to Danish soldiers' operations in the current missions. Of course, I think it is wise to have done so. But I think that in the longer term, it's probably going to run the risk of having negative effects, because it's going to create this fake form of security that people are gonna do the right thing now that they've signed these papers. I don't think we're gonna see the widespread abuse of civilians as shields disappearing because of this paper. If you believe that, I really think you've gotten worse at winning a war. That's why this is the wrong way to conduct foreign policy. So the Danish People's Party does not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150710	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150715	Thank you. I find it extremely regrettable that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party does not share this ambition to have a political demonstration of prioritising children, young people, school and education in armed conflicts. But I would like to give the rapporteur an opportunity now to make some other proposals. What will it take to give priority to these very vulnerable children and young people, schools and universities in armed conflict? Could the rapporteur make other suggestions as to how we can then create a focus and a focus in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150750	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150752	The Danish People's Party gives priority to vulnerable species, children and young people etc. The Danish People's Party also likes warm summers, and therefore we could adopt a paper now that we all sign that we want warm summers. It is almost as useful to sign such a paper here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150817	Kristian Hegaard, if you want to speak again, you have to press. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150826	Does the rapporteur have no impression at all that so many other countries have joined this, that so many other countries are focusing on children, young people, schools and universities in armed conflicts? What is it that makes the rapporteur think that Denmark should be outside? Is it not a wrong political signal to send out to other countries when they • alliance partners, with whom we usually compare ourselves, France, the Netherlands, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150858	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150859	The Danish People's Party focuses on supporting children, young people, vulnerable, etc. The Danish People's Party wants our soldiers to wage war in a way that they and the rest of us can vouch for. The signing of such a paper here does not change anything. But you get to join a club where you can feel like a sacred Pharisee, but it would be smart if someone started saying that it is the real actions that really apply and are important instead of howling in the Glee Club that we are all good together. So I am proud that we dare to speak against Roma in the middle and say: this is not the right way to conduct foreign policy. But that's why you other people can do it, just don't think it has a very realistic effect, because it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150948	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Michael Aastrup Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505150957	Thank you. As both the Minister and indeed everyone else have said, it is a fairly open door which the proposers are trying to kick in, as the government already decided on Tuesday to sign this statement. So you could actually stop here. I do not do so, because I think I would also like to acknowledge that this is an important subject for debate and therefore also say a few other words. After all, it is not a secret that children and young people should be protected from acts of war and that children and young people in conflict areas should, as far as possible, have access to education. After all, it is always children who are the biggest losers in conflict. Here Safe Schools Declaration plays a very important role in ensuring that children receive greater protection from the horrors of war. There has been uncertainty as to what concrete commitments Denmark would incur by signing the declaration. That is why it has taken a great deal of time, but fortunately that clarification has now been given, and that is why the government has also signed it. That's good. Because on the Left side we are very, very much in favour of this declaration, because unfortunately there are many examples of schools being involved in acts of war. Of course, children and young people suffer both on the short and the long track. And it is not only in distant conflicts that schools become targets for war crimes. This is also happening in Europe. We have seen before how schools have been hit by grenades and for example. directly has been used as bases by Russian-supported separatists in eastern Ukraine. It is a disgrace that a country which is, moreover, a member of the Council of Europe should not at all costs avoid hitting schools in the fights that would not take place without Russian support. It is not only in Ukraine that Russia is involved in bombing schools and destroying schooling and learning for a future generation. In Syria, Russia has also provided weapons and expertise to a regime that has deliberately sought to bomb civilian targets, including schools. That is why Safe Schools Declaration is so much needed and it needs to be observed so that children can go to school without having to fear for their lives. We should therefore also put pressure on, for example, in this regard. Russia to get it to refrain from using schools for military action. It actually belongs to a civilised country. As I said earlier, Denmark has just signed the Safe Schools Declaration or the Declaration, now that we are a Danish parliament and that is why it is an absolutely open door that the proposers kick in. That is why we welcome the debate, but we cannot support the resolution because it has actually already taken effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151257	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151305	Thank you. It is, of course, a very good proposal that has come from the SF, and it is a proposal that, fortunately, has been successful. It was already announced earlier this week that the government will now agree to the declaration, and that is really positive. This is sometimes the case in the Assembly, where resolutions really make a difference, and this is a positive and a good example of how this can happen. It is very good that Denmark joins the declaration and, above all, the clear guidelines for how Denmark must behave in wars in order to avoid using schools as bases, weapons stores or training facilities or to use them as targets for war. One can actually say that this is absolutely absurd. In other words, should it not be pure logic and an expression of a perfectly normal moral judgment not to bomb schools and universities or to use schools and universities as weapons stores, prisons or training camps? But if we look around the world right now, when we are standing here talking, it is unfortunately the situation in many places that actually happens. That is why it is of course also important for Denmark to agree to the declaration and the guidelines, because we are thus helping to put pressure on other countries and on armed groups to do the same, just as we are, of course, committing ourselves to follow those guidelines in the future. So I think it is positive that we are now hearing from the Foreign Minister that we are up to 64 countries that have signed the declaration and that it is also including Denmark. This is so important. Not least, of course, it is important that we work to keep not only ourselves but also others in the ears to ensure that these guidelines are respected in the future. That is why the Enhedslisten can agree to the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151506	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151515	Thank you. The resolution here is, of course, a very good resolution because what it says is that Denmark must join the declaration on safe schools. The resolution is also so good that on 2 May we actually endorsed the declaration. This raises the question formally: what is to be done with such a resolution, which is neither good nor bad, but which is in a state for which we do not really have a name here in the Folketing? It's empty, you might say. This has no effect because we are already part of the declaration. The sensible thing to do with empty resolutions, even if they are good, must be to vote against them, so that we do not have to join again or something absurd. So we do not support the resolution because the decision has already been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151615	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151622	Thank you. First of all, thank you very much, sir. Holger K. Nielsen to make this important proposal, because what this is all about is that words create action, and so do these forms of declarations. When the countries join, we also show the direction in which we want to go, and hopefully it will also be something that will create a reality within too long a period of time. I'm not going to explain what this declaration is about... many others have already done that... but I just want to say that the alternative, of course, supports that we're in this kind of declaration, because that's what creates reality, and that's why we can of course also support SF's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151704	Thank you. Sir. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505151715	Thank you. Yes, fortunately I have had the pleasure of having to write my speech about during the week, because there has been a very welcome development in the government's attitude on this subject. Thank you for that, and thank you not least for the children in the areas where there are armed conflicts. This Safe Schools Declaration is an intergovernmental political obligation to protect students, students, teachers, schools and universities in war situations. Canada, France, Finland, the Netherlands and Norway are also part of the countries that have joined and some of whom we are usually familiar with. So many thanks to the SF for supporting this attention to the very important issue of children, young people and schools in war situations that are now being taken into action. It is no secret that this has long been of interest to the Radical Left too. This can be seen by the fact that Martin Lidegaard made representations to the then minister in the field 11⁄2 years ago to ask about the government's ambitions regarding Safe Schools Declaration. Fortunately, the government has thought about this carefully, and there should be no gloating tones about it. For the Radical Left, it is of great importance to express the clearest political support for the protection of children and young people's education during armed conflicts, and it sends the Safe Schools Declaration a clear direction. For the most important thing is children and young people, even when there is war, and fortunately we are not alone in doing so, because at the beginning of the week 63 countries had joined the political support of the countries with which we normally compare ourselves, as I mentioned earlier. We're so no. 64 and it has to be said that it would have sent an unfortunate signal if it were for Denmark to stand outside and some of our friends to stand inside. So why stand outside to support the importance of children and young people's education in armed conflicts during the time it has been? Why are we really just number one? 64? Because next door, we have international law. Of course, it has priority and higher legal value than anything else. International humanitarian law is always at the top of the list, and that is why the Safe Schools Declaration, as a political expression with a number of countries, will not override international law, but it will strengthen our general political focus on children in war as something that is absolutely, absolutely terrible. One can hope that this shows a new line in the government's approach to protecting children in vulnerable areas. Isn't that something we should be working on? In order to continue the line that has now been taken here, we could, of course, also address development aid. Because if there is something that makes a huge difference for children, ensures better upbringing, ensures better education, ensures better health, it is also something that development aid can contribute, and it can only be regretted that we currently have the lowest development aid for over 30 years. The Radical Left believes it is an important signal to send out about children, young people and education in armed conflicts. Children and young people are not just our priorities at home. That is also our priority in the world, and let us not put an end to our ambitions here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505152110	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Conservative rapporteur is not present, Mr President, it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution. Holger K. Nielsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505152121	Thank you for the debate. It is true, as several people have said, that in a certain sense it is a little superfluous, because the government announced on Tuesday that it will sign the Safe Schools Declaration, but I nevertheless thought it was right that, if I may say so, we had just finished the matter here. This is largely due to the fact that this motion for a resolution has been tabled, at least it has been done now. Whether you would have done it anyway, I cannot say, but there is no doubt that it has encouraged the government to get this process going, and it does not really matter whether it is our fault or that of the government, we should not discuss that. It is good that it has been done, and it is good for the children, and it is good for Denmark's reputation that we are sending out this signal into the world, that we have also signed the Safe Schools Declaration, and many sensible things have been said about that, which I shall not repeat here. As I said, it is signed, and what do we do now? We have taken the debate today and we see no reason why we should put this to the vote at a later date. It can be passed on in committee, and if there is a need for a report at some point, if the government comes up with other ideas or something, then we can take it up again. That's what we have this kind of debate for. But I expect that after today's debate we can put this behind us and then be satisfied that the government is signing the Safe Schools Declaration, and I think that we should congratulate Denmark on doing so. This is an important signal from Denmark to the many children who can become victims in the war, and also in relation to the discussion about the protection of children and young people in armed conflicts. So thank you to the government, thank you to the Minister for doing so, and congratulations to all of us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505152323	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505152343	The debate has been opened, and the Foreign Minister is the first to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505152406	The Enhedslisten has tabled a motion for a resolution stating to the European Union that negotiations on Turkey's accession to the European Union are temporarily suspended until democratic rights are guaranteed. This is not a new resolution. We discussed the same resolution only three and a half months ago, and then you could ask yourself what has changed since then. The most important new thing, of course, is that the referendum on the constitutional changes in Turkey has been carried out and that the majority of the Turkish people have voted in favour of the constitutional changes, but a narrow majority has voted in favour of them. We can have our views on that. I do not want to hide the fact that my concerns about Turkey's democratic development have only become stronger by that vote. The Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, composed of constitutional experts, has identified a number of risks to the constitutional changes. According to the Commission, the changes represent a dangerous step backwards for the constitutional democratic tradition in Turkey, among others. because there are no control mechanisms necessary to prevent the strengthening of the presidency from leading to an authoritarian regime. In other words, too much power is being concentrated on the President, and that is of course very disturbing. At the same time, however, we must also wait and see how the constitutional changes are being implemented in concrete terms and what concrete consequences they will have. As you know, the process leading up to the referendum on 16 April was also very unsightly. The Turkish rhetorical outcome against the Netherlands and Germany with Nazi and Fascism references was, of course, totally unacceptable. Both the Prime Minister and myself have made this clear to the Turkish Government. It was therefore also the right decision to postpone the planned meeting between the Prime Minister and the Turkish Prime Minister in Copenhagen. In the given context and with the Turkish rhetoric about the Western democracies and the outcome to the Netherlands, there was a great risk that a meeting with the Prime Minister could be interpreted as if Denmark looked at developments in Turkey more favourably. This is by no means the case. That risk was eliminated with the decision to postpone the meeting. The concerns about the adopted constitutional changes are on top of developments which have already gone in the wrong direction in recent years. We have also talked on several previous occasions in the Folketing about the many examples demonstrating the negative developments in Turkey: the conditions for media freedom illustrated by the high number of imprisoned journalists and the closure of independent media, the situation in south-east Turkey, the continued imprisonment of politicians and parliamentarians, the arrests and dismissals of thousands of people and the continuing state of emergency that provides the framework for all these actions. The examples are many and the worsening developments have resulted in the Council of Europe's Parliamentary Assembly deciding last week that Turkey should return under full monitoring. So we are faced with a Turkey moving away from Europe and away from the European Union, away from the democratic values and standards that EU cooperation stands for. We are faced with a country that sometimes uses totally unacceptable rhetoric on the foreign policy stage, and that is why we are also very clear in our criticism. There should be no doubt whatsoever that it is not at all possible to see Turkey, as we know it today, become a member of the European Union. All this, however, does not change the fundamental conditions that are still prevailing in relation to Turkey, even after the referendum of 16 April. Turkey is still an important partner and a strategic ally of the European Union, in NATO cooperation, in the fight against ISIL, in the fight against terrorism, in the management of migration, and this does not change the outcome of the referendum, and, as we know, the result of the referendum only gave a knack for the constitutional changes supported by the government. Official figures report 51.4%. to the yes side and 48.6 per cent. to the no side. It's a very close race. The conclusion is that almost half the population, probably also many within the government party AKP, does not support President Erdogan in the direction he wants to set for Turkey. This makes it possible to maintain the belief that Turkey can return to a democratic path. The question is how best we support that objective. Are we doing this by shutting down the EU accession negotiations, although we say it is temporary, and is an EU that is closing the door, something that will strengthen the reform-oriented forces? I don't think so. On the contrary, I believe that the reformist forces will find it even more difficult than they are today if the European Union suspends accession negotiations. This is likely to be exploited by President Erdogan and the AKP government as proof that the European Union has never been serious about the discussion about Turkey and the European Union. The accusations against Europe for being Islamophobic and racist are already extensively used in official rhetoric. But I would actually like to admit here from the platform that I myself am sometimes tempted to beat the table and say: it stops here! and show that the negative developments in Turkey must meet with a harder and clearer response. But we must resist that temptation, is my conclusion, because we must not do the work for President Erdogan. Interruption of accession negotiations will deprive the EU of a decisive channel for influencing Turkey in the desired direction of reform in the long term, and relations with Turkey, including the dialogue on human rights in the country, will be weakened. One of the positive aspects of the accession negotiations is the very clear criteria that have been set up, among other things. with regard to democracy and human rights, in other words, that Turkey, as a candidate country of the European Union, is being kept up to high standards and obligations and is being told when developments are going in the wrong direction. I do not think that we should be working at this stage to shut down that channel. Please note that I am saying at this stage, because it is clear that there will of course be an edge, a red line, as Turkey is fully aware, and it will, for example, be. have been achieved by the reintroduction of the death penalty. It was a fundamental requirement in connection with the opening of accession negotiations with Turkey in 2005 that negotiations could not continue by re-establishing the death penalty. Of course, there will also be an edge in other areas where the consequence must be that we suspend the negotiations for accession to the European Union, but it would not be wise to try to define red lines very clearly in advance, because then all the focus will be precisely on them and on whether there is now complete agreement among all about exactly where the borders are going. The fact is that there is a need for great progress in many areas. In this situation, it is probably wiser, after all, to maintain a degree of flexibility and reserve the right to decide on specific situations first, should we get there. So let us not do the work of President Erdogan. If EU accession negotiations are stopped, it should be because Turkey itself has closed the door. This will also mean that it will be Turkey's political leadership that will have to face up to the consequences. If, at this stage, the European Union suspends negotiations, it will appear that it is the European Union that alone, and because the European Union does not like the result of the people's mood, has closed the door. It is still a very small minority in the EU circle that wants that line. This was also very clear in our discussion of Turkey at the informal EU ministerial meeting a week ago. So, although there is widespread agreement that developments in Turkey continue to go in the wrong direction and that the adoption of the Constitutional Amendment will presumably mean that Turkey will move even further away from the European Union, the vast majority of countries also agree that it should not be the European Union that is currently slamming the door by suspending accession negotiations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153219	Then we move on to the rapporteur's line, and that is Mr. President. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Excuse me, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth for a brief comment, so we need to get the Foreign Minister back up. It was my fault, I'm sorry, but that's the way it is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153248	I really think that the Foreign Minister has recapitulated the situation since we last had the debate, with the exception that the Minister for Foreign Affairs forgot to mention the miserable nature of the Turkish embassy in Denmark, led by the religious adviser, Baloglu, and his admission of how to monitor people in Denmark. I find it interesting to note again that the Foreign Minister says that it is the imposition of the death penalty that is the red line. I think a lot of people are wondering about it. In other words, what we see and witness is the persecution of Kurds, they are continuous violations of freedoms, and that is electoral fraud, but we are left with what is called, if only Turkey does not reinstate the death penalty, we will tolerate everything. To put it bluntly: I think they are laughing at Ankara's thighs about the way we act. Is the Foreign Minister satisfied with being a laughing stock in Ankara?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153357	Here you go to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153358	Now, when I went through the red line section, I said that there is a clear red line here, and then I added that we should be careful not to be precise when there are otherwise red lines, so as not to get into the opposite situation of the one that the rapporteur and myself and others want, namely that we are moving in the wrong direction and that it is going to be a game about the precise definition of the red lines. I don't know if you're gonna have to laugh at your thighs. After all, I also have an ongoing dialogue with my Turkish colleague, and it is clearly my impression that Turkey is aware of the situation in which it finds itself. Let us now also try to assess what is happening now that the referendum is over. One thing, of course, and we know this from many countries, is that there is a process in the context of a democratic debate in which rhetoric can become very harsh and very confrontational; another is the situation that follows. I believe that among other things. the 49 per cent against the Erdogan line, and the 49 per cent who did not vote for Erdogan at the last election weighs very heavily; that is, we do not abandon them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153523	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153524	I simply find it difficult to see where the red lines which the Foreign Minister would like to see lie and be invisible might be located. I simply do not see Turkey moving much further in a negative direction than Turkey has already done. And then we're back on that question of the death penalty, which I think is a wrong red line to draw. Persecution of Kurds, continuous violations of freedoms, direct and indirect support to the Islamic State, depending on where we are in time, are far worse. I just have to ask the Foreign Minister whether it is not very well that Erdogan ends up turning his back on Europe and then we are totally undressed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153609	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153611	In fact, I do not think that will be the case. If Erdogan chooses to interrupt it, I think he will find himself in serious internal problems, because then it is not just the 49% that he is turning his back and has already turned his back on the two votes that have taken place, and then it will be him, I think, who has a problem of explanation, compared to if it is we who are turning our back on Turkey. In many ways, Turkey has already turned its back on Europe. As I also mentioned in my speech, I can certainly be tempted to stand up and beat the table, but there are just a lot of interests at stake here, and there are also a lot of interests at stake for Denmark. It's not just a matter of this individual relationship. We have among other things. many security policy issues that are at stake here and that we also have to deal with. It's complicated. I'll give you that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153658	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153700	Thank you. I do not believe that Erdogan interrupts negotiations with the European Union, nor do I believe that he is introducing the death penalty. I think he will continue to threaten to do so and then hope that Europe and the European leaders will fall into the trap. I think it is very important to stress that this is, after all, a motion for a resolution which calls for a temporary suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed and not a permanent stop; that is what the Foreign Minister said in his speech, but it is just important to emphasise. Because it also means that the claim that Turkey or the Turkish people should be slammed in the face by adopting this proposal simply does not stand. I have no doubt that it is a claim Erdogan would like to make. But I do think that experience, among other things. from the Council of Europe, shows that Erdogan is very good at empty threats and that you should not take them seriously. So, Erdogan and his government and his parliamentarians have threatened to leave the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe if they were put under full monitoring. That didn't happen. So does the Foreign Minister not think that we should be careful not to be under pressure from Turkey and that claim that we are slamming the door if we adopt a temporary suspension?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153822	Here you go, the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153823	Yes, we must certainly be careful not to be under such pressure. I do not think that is what it is saying either. The way I have tried to argue in my speech is precisely by emphasising that, yes, I may also be tempted to put myself in the position that now Enhedslisten or Dansk Folkeparti is doing here.Those are two different positions, I am aware of that, but there are many considerations that need to be taken into account. One of the considerations to be taken is that the opposition in Turkey is not so much in favour of this being the path we are going, that is, the path that the Enhedslisten is setting. The opposition is in favour of maintaining dialogue with a view to maintaining pressure. Because once we draw that card, the card is drawn, and then you can't pull it back again, so it's drawn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153910	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153911	But again: we are talking about a temporary suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed. I spoke to the left-wing, pro-Curdish HDP party only last Tuesday, and they said that they were in favour of a temporary suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed. So it's not them that you can say you're failing. On the contrary, you put pressure on Erdogan. I just want to hear the Foreign Minister: does it really make sense to continue accession negotiations in the European Union with a country where you have a President who has short-circuited democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153946	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505153947	It makes sense to keep up the pressure on Turkey when it is moving in the right direction instead of the opposite direction. That's the whole point. As I have said several times, I admit that this is very dilemmaous and that I myself can also wake up with the temptation to stand on the platform and say that this will stop! That's it! There are plus arguments, and there are minus arguments. My conclusion and the government's conclusion are still gone at this stage, that we must make sure that we are not the ones slamming the door in. If the door is to be slammed in, it must be Turkey, and then the explanation challenge must lie with Erdogan alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154030	Thank you. Then there are no more brief remarks, and then it is Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154040	Thank you. Social democracy looks with great concern at developments in Turkey. This applies both to the country's world record in the number of imprisoned journalists, the closure of critical newspapers, television stations and radio channels, and to the ban on using more forms of social media. We have seen the imprisonment of democratically elected opposition politicians threatened with life sentences in absurd trials. Similarly, we have seen sad examples of the implementation of religious legislation as a direct desire to end Turkey as a secular state. We have also seen how both ethnic and religious minorities are suppressed and how numerous reports prove that people are being displaced from their territories and are living in slums in Turkish cities. We have also seen how the state of emergency is being abused in several provinces for violent attacks on civilians, and there is massive evidence of torture in the country's prisons. We have also seen the Turkish President, Erdogan, in the so-called referendum, which was marked by cheating, secure a majority in order to make Turkey even more undemocratic and authoritarian. But we have also seen another Turkey. We've just seen how 49%. of the Turkish people voted against an authoritarian regime, and if there had been a fair vote with equal access to the media and no cheating in the polling stations, it is most likely that it would have become a 'no' vote. Furthermore, anyone who is in constant contact with more people in the Turkish opposition, with NGOs, with trade unions or with human rights groups knows that there are millions of Turks who want to live in freedom and democracy and who, like us in Denmark, look with concern at the developments taking place in that country. The Social Democrats are well aware that Turkey is in no way just near becoming a member of the European Union, and the likelihood of that happening at all is quite small, as it does not in any way meet the criteria required to become a Member State. However, if we suspend EU negotiations with Turkey, it will only benefit one person: President Erdogan of Turkey. He will love to be in such a situation of conflict with the European Union, and the Turkish opposition will be even more left to itself. It is therefore also very significant that many of these forces believe that it is extremely important to maintain contact with the European Union and Europe, and we agree with that. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154239	Thank you, and there are a few brief comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154244	Thank you. See, on 24 November 2016, the European Parliament voted to invite Member States to suspend accession negotiations with Turkey. So did all the Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament. Now, sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen here today and says that the invitation of his own party colleagues in Brussels and Strasbourg will be Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen did not follow. Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154317	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154318	Firstly, because different opinions can be held in the Social Democratic Party. That is perhaps what distinguishes us from the Danish People's Party in some situations. Secondly, because it is quite serious and because some of us have spent a lot of time talking to the opposition in Turkey as well. That's right, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen says that there are some who support this, but indeed there are also some, among others. some of our party colleagues in the Turkish social democracy who think it is a really bad idea to suspend these negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154342	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154344	So the conclusion must be that we should not count on the way in which we vote in the European Parliament. There does not necessarily have to be consistency between what is being voted in the European Parliament, where it does not matter where it is signal legislation, and what is then adopted here in the Folketing, where the adoption of the Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution would actually have an impact. That's how you have to understand sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154410	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154412	After all, it was at another time that they voted on it in the European Parliament. They have had their reflections and we have had our reflections in the Social Democratic Party in Denmark. There have been some differences of opinion on this, it is not an easy matter. We're not quite clear, I can see pro and counter in this. What is just important to us is still missing from having an ongoing dialogue to strengthen the democratic forces in Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154431	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154435	Thank you. Well, I know that sir... Lars Aslan Rasmussen is following the situation in Turkey very closely, which is why I must also say that I am surprised by the rapporteur and the position of the Social Democrats. Only last Tuesday I spoke to the European representative of the HDP, the left-wing party, who is actually a member of the Socialist International, and he said that they wanted the EU accession negotiations temporarily suspended until democratic rights were guaranteed because it would put pressure on Erdogan. It is, of course, a party to which those who follow the situation are well aware that several of their parliamentarians have been imprisoned, so I would just like to ask Mr. Lars Aslan Rasmussen: Why not listen to their call and take the consequences of Erdogan's violent repression?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154530	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154531	Because there are different views on this, including in Turkey. I haven't been down there since December, and I don't know if I'm coming back down there because I have a strong feeling that I'm on this black list. When I was down there, I also visited the Turkish Social Democrats. It is true that there is a party called HDP which is close to the Enhedslisten. There is also a party in the opposition, called CHP, which is probably closer to Social Democracy, and the position was fairly clear: that dialogue with the European Union should be maintained. It was also the attitude of several trade unions that I was talking to. It is not an easy matter, it is not a question of being for or against, but, overall, we believe that it is most important to maintain contact with Turkey, including through Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154606	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154607	I think it is very important in this debate as well as distinguishing between a position that the Danish People's Party sometimes occupies, which is that there should be a permanent stop and no dialogue, and that Turkey should never enter, and then a position that is that if we want the Turkish people and democratic forces the best, then it will have to have a consequence when democracy is short-circuited. I just think it is a pity that, in this situation, the Social Democratic Party does not choose to listen more to the HDP, which is actually a party in the Socialist International. So I would just like to call on the Social Democrats in the future, and before the final vote, to reconsider whether it is really a wise position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154653	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154654	It's like sir. Nikolaj Villumsen does not quite hear what I am saying, because there are indeed forces in the Turkish opposition and the Kurdish opposition for the sake of what I am saying, namely that dialogue must be maintained through the European Union. And then there are some who agree with Mr. Knox. Nikolaj Villumsen. It is not that easy, but I believe that the forces I have visited when I have been in Turkey largely agree with me that the European Union should not slam the door in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154717	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505154728	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are debating a proposal from the Enhedslisten to suspend EU accession negotiations with Turkey. We in the Danish People's Party can easily support this proposal. The Danish People's Party has never wanted Turkey to be part of the European Union, for the reason that Turkey is not a European country, disregarding the modest remnant of the Ottoman invasion, which is the expression of the East Trachea. The Danish People's Party has itself in the form of motion for a resolution No. B 20 to suspend negotiations with Turkey earlier this year. Amendments were tabled to this proposal by Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party to change the text of the proposal into a temporary suspension, but although all of the Danish parties represented in the European Parliament had voted in a vote there to interrupt the negotiations temporarily, yes, the same parties in the Folketing voted against interrupting the negotiations. These are probably the sort of things that give rise to politicians, because citizens can see that, where that matters, the parties do not dare to vote in favour, and where it does not matter, they then vote in favour. Since the debate on the motion for a resolution No. B 20 has continued to develop in Turkey in the wrong direction. The Turkish Public Prosecutor has promised the leader of the Kurdish HDP party, Selahattin Demirtas, that he will be in prison for the next 142 years, as I recall. Turkey is continuing the imprisonment of people whom they believe are connected to it, like the AKP Islamist Gülen movement, and also a lot of other people who can be taken into account in the rush. On 16 April, Turkey held a parodic referendum which, if the matter were not so serious, would have been worthy of a banana republic. One is that there was not equal access for both parties to be heard in the election campaign; another is that, although the Turkish President Erdogan had secured access to extra votes in the form of a lot of ballot papers that were not duly stamped by the electoral authority, he only just secured a majority for his constitutional amendment, which assigns more powers to him. The Turks must, of course, decide for themselves how they organise their political system, but we must also decide for ourselves whether we want Turkey to join the European Union, and we do not do so. I have repeatedly asked the Foreign Minister whether it was not time to announce in the Council that Denmark no longer supports Turkey's accession to the European Union, just as Austria has done, but the Minister for Foreign Affairs has emphatically rejected and referred to the fact that only on the day of Turkey's reinstatement of the death penalty will accession negotiations be suspended. I think there are many Danes who wonder why it should be the red line. One can apparently imprison political opponents, persecute Kurds, hand over Lars Hedegaard's supposed assassin to the Islamic State, lie to the Danish Foreign Minister, illegally collect information about Erdogan's opponents in Denmark, double-play with the Islamic State, beat down women protesters and fuck with election results, without having any consequences in relation to accession negotiations with Turkey. However, as far as the death penalty is concerned, so far, the European Union still intends to draw a line in the sand. It is quite absurd that you can de facto kid fundamental freedoms, don't give a shit about allies, cooperate with a terrorist organisation, and that it doesn't matter. It's simply monstrous. That is why we in the Danish People's Party can of course support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155107	Thank you. Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155111	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth says that Turkey can never join the European Union for the simple reason that it is not in Europe. When I read what the Danish People's Party has said in the past, it is about the country as such being completely unfit. Peter Skaarup is quoted for this year to join the EU. So is it just about the geographical location, or is it also about some democracy stuff and some human rights stuff for the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155136	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155137	It is about many things, but it is clear that a country which is not geographically located in Europe cannot easily enter the European Union. But it is obvious that other countries which are democratically founded but which are outside Europe cannot join the European Union either. As much as I like Israel, I do not think it is right to offer Israel a membership of the European Union because Israel is not in Europe. As much as I like Canada, I do not think it is right to offer Canada membership of the European Union. However, countries which (1) are outside Europe and (2) are continuously violating freedoms cannot, of course, become members of the European Union or should not be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155221	Sir. Lars Aslan Rasmussen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155222	So now some of Turkey is geographically in Europe. It's on the border. What about NATO? Should you go further? That must then be the consequence. Now I am not thinking of the geographical situation, but if we look at Turkey in the way that the Danish People's Party sees it, it must surely be the next step that they cannot be part of NATO either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155244	Yes, it is true that after the collapse of the Ottoman Empire, a small piece was kept in Europe, namely East Thrace, as I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. As far as NATO is concerned, it is just that NATO is built in a different way. I do not deny that Turkey will eventually be poured out of NATO. I really do not, because I think there can be a lot of doubt as to whether Turkey can be trusted as an alliance partner in the light of what is happening at the moment. However, it should be remembered that countries which have not been democratic, such as the United States. Portugal and Greece, of course, have been part of NATO historically. So, in my opinion, the same demands cannot be made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155325	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no further comments. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155339	In Denmark we have a long democratic tradition and soon we can all celebrate the 168th anniversary of the adoption of our common constitution. Unfortunately, however, we do not need to look so far into the world to see that democracy and democratic rights are not a state of nature. This is something that we must constantly work on and work hard to preserve and promote. In Turkey, in recent years, we have seen drastic and unfortunate developments away from democracy. Fundamental democratic rights have been challenged, and human rights are being violated unheard of. Since we last debated the suspension of Turkey's accession process to the European Union, and that was 8 December 2016, unfortunately, developments have only gone one way: the wrong one. I therefore understand that the Enhedslisten is once again putting this important issue on the agenda, because the Left also finds developments in Turkey extremely worrying. Since the coup attempt in July 2016, we have seen violent purges in the public administration and the judiciary in Turkey, where more than 100,000 people have lost their jobs. The Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, has expressed a desire to reinstate the death penalty, and we are constantly seeing examples of unnecessarily harsh behaviour. Last but not least, last month we saw a narrow majority of the 55 million Turkish citizens voting in a referendum in favour of giving more power to President Erdogan, and the new constitutional changes give the Turkish President the opportunity, among other things. to dismiss Parliament and introduce a state of emergency. So the Left shares the Enhedslisten's diagnosis of the undesirable democratic development in Turkey, but we do not believe that the right course of treatment is to cut off all relations. It is still the view of the Left that Turkey's status as a candidate country and our cooperation through the European Union are a crucial diplomatic relationship. Indeed, it allows us to continue to try to promote and restore the rights of the many millions of Turkish citizens and to support the opposition forces. As I also explained, the last time we had this debate, I am afraid that, without strong diplomatic relations, we risk completely losing contact with the Turkish regime. This will mean that we will only have the same poor diplomatic means of action as we have for countries such as Egypt, Libya or Tunisia. This is a bad idea, as it leaves us completely without the possibility of influencing Turkey in the desired direction of reform. So I am sorry, but the Left cannot support the resolution this time either, but we share the concern about developments in Turkey and we do not approve of it at all, but we do not want to cut off the possibility of helping the democratic forces, among others. the Turkish opposition, which continues to fight further. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155648	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155655	We're hearing so much about these diplomatic options. But everyone can see that Turkey does not care what we say in Europe. After all, all the progress that has been made now is an expression of the total ridicule of the Turkish President who is doing as he pleases. So I don't give much for those diplomatic options. In return, I'll give you something else. I'm gonna give you a lot of money to get Mr. Simpson to come in. On 24 November 2016, Jan E. Jørgensen's colleague in the European Parliament, Morten Løkkegaard, voted in favour of temporarily suspending accession negotiations with Turkey. Why did Mr. Morten Løkkegaard, it reaches Mr. Løkkegaard. Jan E. Jørgensen now does the opposite?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155746	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155747	I had almost guessed that I would get the question, and I've been looking forward to returning the answer. We in the Left do not believe that it is the European Parliament that should decide what we decide in the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155805	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155807	So I can conclude, in other words, that what the Left votes in the European Parliament is completely irrelevant. When the Left in the European Parliament votes to suspend the accession negotiations and the Left in the Folketing votes against the same, we just have to neglect everything that the Left goes and does in the European Parliament. Is that what you can conclude that it doesn't matter what they're doing down in the Mickey Mouse Parliament, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155836	I don't think the answer will surprise Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. No, of course not. Of course not. But these are two different forums with two different impact possibilities and different consequences of decisions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155851	The next brief remark is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505155856	Thank you. Of course, when I took the floor today, it is partly to regret that the Left cannot support it. I'm sorry to hear that. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left's speech, where I wondered a little why he was here. Jan E. Jørgensen said that if we temporarily suspended the EU-Turkey accession negotiations, there would be a situation where relations with Turkey would be at the same level as relations with Tunisia and Egypt and some other countries. That puzzled me a lot. After all, Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe. It is a country with which we have a very close relationship and which has undertaken to respect absolutely fundamental democratic rights that the government has signed to give to its people and which is clearly not being given. It is even a country that is a NATO member and, as I said earlier, this is a proposal which does not seek to break any kind of dialogue, but merely temporarily suspend until democratic rights are guaranteed. So does the rapporteur not agree that there is a difference? In fact, we have a rather close relationship with Turkey, regardless of whether this is adopted or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160015	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160016	Yeah, that's right. That was a bit too tight a comparison, I have to admit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160025	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160026	Well, I am pleased about that, because the starting point for this is the desire to extend a helping hand to the democratic forces in Turkey and to help the country in a right direction, even though the government has committed itself to going in as a member of the Council of Europe. Therefore, I would just like to hear from the Left why it really is that, according to the Left, it makes sense to continue this specific EU accession process at a time when democratic rights are completely short-circuited. Wouldn't it make sense to make a suspension?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160059	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160100	Well, you can also discuss how much is going on. After all, Turkey is doing everything in its power to move away from the Copenhagen criteria and therefore away from the possibility of joining the European Union, so it can be said somewhere that Turkey itself is not doing anything to achieve EU membership. I therefore find it very, very difficult to imagine Turkey becoming a member of the European Union within a very long period of time. Now revolutions have taken place before, and one can of course hope that this will happen in Turkey, but the way things are moving is quite wrong. What is important to us is that Turkey should, if necessary, withdraw so far away that Turkey de facto withdraws completely from the negotiations, so that a suspension or perhaps even a complete break will come to pass. But we still have hope, even though I have to admit that hope is becoming increasingly weak.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160207	I have no further comments to make, so I would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next speaker is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160229	Thank you. Developments in Turkey are indeed worrying; I think that is today's understatement. We have discussed the situation in detail here in Parliament a number of times over the past year and for good reason, because developments in Turkey go in the wrong direction from bad to worse. It is not my impression that there is more than one attitude in the Folketing towards President Erdogan's government in Turkey, which is responsible for an unprecedented undermining of fundamental freedoms and democracy. The question then is what are we going to do about it? It is not the view of the Liberal Alliance that a suspension of accession negotiations with the European Union, as proposed here, is the right thing to do. It will not benefit the Turkish people, it is our assessment, and we must not forget that it is not a total Turkish people who are behind the President's regime. Nor will it benefit the EU or Denmark. Whatever we decide here, Turkey will still be a neighbouring country of the European Union, and we have no interest in pushing Turkey into the arms of the Middle East. It will also, I think, be an even worse disaster than what they are already experiencing, for the Turkish citizens who subscribe to the same values of freedom and democracy, that is, fundamental freedoms as we do. I do not see Turkey becoming a member of the European Union in anything that just resembles a close time horizon. Turkey is moving almost day by day further and further away from complying with standards of democracy and human rights, but let us maintain pressure on them through negotiations instead of risking putting us in a situation where we are getting more difficult to put pressure on them. Against this background, the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160418	There are, for the time being, two comments which have been made briefly, and the first is that of Mr Beazley. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160425	Allow me to read out a small quote from Politiken on 18 July 2016 to the rapporteur: unfortunately, on its own initiative, Turkey has deprived itself of the opportunity to become a member of the European Union. It is inconceivable that a country with a government that puts the rule of law out of operation can be a member state. The European Union has other things to do. Mette Bock writes this in a written reply to Politiken, so there can be no misunderstanding, for it is in writing. What has changed in a positive direction in Turkey from 18 July 2016 to today, which means that what Mrs Mette Bock said on 18 July 2016 no longer applies to the position of the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160516	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160518	Nothing has improved in Turkey since July 2016 until now. On the contrary, it has actually got worse. And Mrs Mette Bock says the same thing I am saying here, namely that none of us can imagine Turkey joining the European Union in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160538	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160542	Mrs Mette Bock says that the possibility of becoming a member has been denied and that the European Union has other things to do than negotiate with Turkey. So I just have to ask the rapporteur again: what then caused Mrs Mette Bock to respond like this back in July 2016, since it was obviously not enough for the position of the Liberal Alliance? Well, then, what made Mrs. Mette Bock answer like this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160613	But Mrs Mette Bock is absolutely right that Turkey is, and that is the same thing I am saying here, namely that no one can imagine that I cannot, and I do not think that anyone else can be, that Turkey will become a member of the European Union in the future that I will see unless there are seriously other buns on the soup in Turkey.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160636	Mr President, on a brief note, the next item is the debate on the report (Doc. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160640	It is clear that we can discuss whether Turkey is being pushed away by suspending accession negotiations. I now think that the risk is very limited when you suspend them with the clear addition that says that they will be resumed as soon as the democratic situation has improved. The Turks and Kurds who are fighting for a more democratic Turkey will then be given a tool to say that it will be possible to do so. But okay, that's a different assessment. I just want to know how much money the Liberal Alliance is willing to pay for that point of view. Because by being a candidate for accession to the EU, a large number of money follows both billion-dollar cash, but also market access agreements. We must even renegotiate an association agreement, in other words a trade relationship. So, how much money is one willing to sacrifice for that point of view?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160758	With all due respect, I don't think so, and I don't really think the questioner does that this is a matter of money. The fact is that whether we like it or not, Turkey is a neighbouring country of the European Union. Then we can close our eyes and hold our ears and pretend that it will probably go away if we do nothing or just cancel all contact. But it doesn't. That is why we have to deal with the fact that Turkey is there and that they have the government they have and that they are setting the totally black agenda, especially for their own citizens, as they are doing. Then we have two and we have discussed this before a different assessment of what is the wisest thing to do. But I don't think we disagree on the target. But to make it up to a question of money, I certainly don't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160840	The questioner on a second short question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160842	Well, now there are many neighbouring countries to the European Union. Russia is a neighbouring country of the European Union. Egypt is a neighbouring country to the EU. That is why we are not negotiating accession with Russia, are we? We are not negotiating accession with Egypt either. There must surely be some reason why admission should be negotiated, and what is the particular reason for negotiating membership with, for example, the United States? Turkey and not negotiate with Russia? What is the particular reason? And then the thing about the money: No, it doesn't have to be made up of money. However, I find it highly provocative that, with the way Erdogan behaves, he is rewarded with a lot of money from the European Union that he spends, at least in part, on his propaganda show. Well-documented studies have been carried out showing how part of pre-accession assistance has been used for selected municipalities, which he himself controls, in order to strengthen his power over the municipalities in the Kurdish areas. That's what I almost said, kicking ourselves in the back.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160944	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505160945	There were two questions. Firstly, why are there negotiations with Turkey and why not with Russia and Egypt, and all sorts of other countries could be imagined? There is, of course, the simple, sober answer that it is because Turkey has asked for it. The second point about the money: as the questioner says, it is highly provocative that they are being used to maintain a propaganda that neither of us, I know, belongs to something that just resembles a democracy. And it's highly provocative. There are plenty of things Erdogan does and says, which are highly provocative too more than provocative. I fully agree with that. The question is, then, what is the wise thing to do in that situation? Of course, there is concern for ourselves. There is concern about what interests we must take care of, also in relation to the security policy situation in the world. But I also think that there is a concern for the democratically minded citizens of Turkey who would like to have a community with Europe and who think that they share values with us and that we do not turn our backs on them and say: then you must enjoy yourself in some completely black and doctrinal regime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161054	There was another questioner. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161057	Thank you. When I have written on it, it is because I think that many times today an argument has been made that, if a temporary suspension is adopted, the door will be slammed in Turkey. I can also hear the arguments put forward by the Turkish Government and President Erdogan in it. Well, I can just imagine and see how you hear it. The experience I think we can draw from the situation with Turkey in the last relatively short time since the referendum is actually that Turkey is really under pressure when international criticism comes up. When there was clear criticism from international election observers, Erdogan was very pressured and very desperate. When the Council of Europe decided to have full monitoring, there was a situation in which the Turkish delegation had threatened, before it was adopted, to emigrate and to withdraw Turkey completely from the Council of Europe. None of those things happened. So I just want to hear the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance: should we not be careful, like falling for this claim, that temporarily suspending until democratic rights are guaranteed is such a form of slamming the door in?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161210	Now you can have the same observations, although you don't share the same purpose. You can actually do that. And, of course, I cannot deny that I have not looked at the rhetoric of the Turkish Government to see what could be a good answer in the preparation for the debate here today. In fact, however, I think it is a valid and genuine consideration to signal to the democratically minded citizens, to the freedom-oriented citizens who are in Turkey, that we still have a door that is not open, but rather a door to negotiation and dialogue with the regime that we share with them in condemning.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161300	The questioner on the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161302	But we do. So Turkey is a member of the Council of Europe. Turkey is even a member of NATO for that matter. This proposal is, after all, a temporary suspension until democratic rights are restored. So the door is wide open as soon as the Turkish Government and the Turkish President stop oppressing their own people. I just think it's very important to focus on that. And I think it is very dangerous to end up in a situation where it is claimed that criticising Erdogan is an expression of not liking or wanting dialogue with the Turkish people. For it is absolutely essential that we take the dialogue with the Turkish people and civil society, which is still not in prison, and that we clearly criticise Erdogan. And this is an attempt to put pressure on Erdogan, whom L.A. so unfortunately cannot support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161358	I fully recognize both that there are many layers in this discussion and that there are many dilemmas in it. I can also sometimes, when I read about what is happening in Turkey, be overwhelmed by this feeling that enough is enough. However, we should not act in effect, and then it is really a question of what we think is the smartest strategy for getting Turkey on the right track. I do not think that there is any quick fix or any such plug and play solution that makes it easier, neither today nor tomorrow, and then we just disagree about what is the smartest strategy. Fortunately, however, we share the objective of what we think would be a good future for Turkey and, above all, for Turkey's citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161449	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161458	Thank you. During the almost two years I have been sitting in this Parliament, we have discussed Turkey many times, and for good reason, because this is a completely crazy development we have seen, not least since we were actually discussing the same thing, namely the temporary suspension of accession negotiations with Turkey. Unfortunately, more has happened. We have seen that a number of our good elected colleagues have been imprisoned. I also really think it is appropriate, when we are discussing this, to express warm support for them, because the way democracy is under pressure in Turkey is appalling. We see journalists, editors, etc. be imprisoned, newspapers, magazines, media closed, and we see a persecution of minorities. Most recently, I have also read an article in a French newspaper about the imprisonment of some people in Turkey. So that is what everyday life in Turkey is and what we have to deal with, even when we talk about it here. The last time we discussed this, we were up to something about what the exact wording should be. And what is very important to me is that we are completely behind the adoption that has been made in the European Parliament. What is also important to us is that we use the same wording and that we really support the resolution, which is, of course, this freeze and temporary suspension. There I just need us to be 100% keen in the committee work that it is the same wording as the European Parliament that we use in relation to this. Because we also support the fact that this is a temporary suspension and that we are saying that we must now pause here so that we do not close the door. Having said that, it is also very important for me to actually point out something else that we should do if we want to show Turkey clearly where we stand, and it is a suspension of the refugee agreement that the European Union has made with Turkey, in which we really put human rights under pressure, including on the European side, and in which we try in a way to sell our challenges to Turkey and then actually close our eyes to what is happening. That is where we should also step in and say: let us now suspend that agreement. Because it is creepy what we have chosen to do from the European side when it comes to the refugee situation. So with the small reservation that we should just have the exact wording of that I just need checked from the adoption in the European Parliament, we might also be behind this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161751	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will continue in the series of speeches. This is Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505161758	We cannot support the resolution, although we share the concern, the feeling of impotence, the frustration and anger about what is happening in Turkey. But I also need to say that we have decided what it takes to become part of the European Union, and that is to meet the Copenhagen criteria. These are stable institutions that guarantee democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities. It is just so simple that, as long as Turkey does not meet those requirements, Turkey cannot become a member, and that makes this decision both from and from. For that is the point that is making in relation to whether or not Turkey becomes a member. There is no doubt that in these years Turkey is moving further away from membership, and that is whether there are negotiations or not. Because it is not the negotiations themselves that make membership. What makes the difference for membership is whether you meet the criteria. Then I think that there is a question that needs to be asked, and that is also, of course, what several people have been circling up here, in other words, how we are helping to push or push or lure Turkey in the right direction. Right now, we just have to see that things are not going in the right direction, but you have to ask yourself whether this will help. If we had now followed the Enhedslisten, when we had this discussion last time, and the accession negotiations had been suspended, do we believe that Erdogan had not implemented his constitutional reform? Do we believe he had begun to treat the Kurds better? Do we believe that he had stopped the torture in prisons? Do we believe that he had stopped firing public employees, stalking journalists? No. And that is why this is also symbolic policy for the proposers, perhaps not symbolic policy, but then a need to beat the table. I can totally recognize that. A number of people have also said that up here, including those who oppose the resolution. You may need to yell or punch the table or slam the door, but had it helped? Would it have made a difference? Actually, I'm 100% sure it didn't. One might ask whether it makes a difference that we continue to have negotiations. I don't know either. This is certainly in the wrong direction, so the proposers can of course argue that the negotiations have certainly not kept Turkey on the right track. But that is why this discussion for me is not so much about EU membership. It may not be so much a question of the way Turkey is going, either, because Turkey is just going in the wrong direction right now. However, I believe that even in a situation where Turkey is going the wrong way, it is better to have a dialogue with Turkey and, above all, a dialogue with the progressive democratic forces of reform in Turkey than to abandon dialogue completely. That's what this is about for me. That is why we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162132	Thank you. Three comments have been drawn up for short periods. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, DF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162139	Thank you. Now we understand from the Left's rapporteur that what the Left votes in the European Parliament is not really to be expected. But I must assume that this is different for a super-European party such as the Radical Left. I have to assume that there is some thought behind this when you press the buttons down in the European Parliament. I must also just remind you of a vote on 24 November 2016. Now it was not the whole Radical Left that was present for that vote. Jens Rohde wasn't there, so I don't want him to be blamed for anything. But it was Mr. Morten Helveg Petersen, and Mr. Morten Helveg Petersen voted in accordance with virtually the whole of the European Parliament to call on the Member States to suspend the accession negotiations with Turkey temporarily. Why did Mr. Mr Helveg Petersen in this way in the European Parliament when Mrs Zenia Stampe does not follow that call, but actually does exactly the opposite in the Folketing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162233	I can't explain why, sir. Morten Helveg Petersen has voted differently. I have explained why we vote as we do. I hope that's enough. In fact, I forgot another thing that I wanted to say, and that may please Mr Seligman. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. There is no doubt that what is happening in Turkey now casts long shadows on Turkey, even in a possible future in which Turkey had taken a better course. That is why I think it is an opportunity for me to reflect on new recordings. I still believe that countries that meet the Copenhagen criteria should be able to become members. However, the requirement for stable organisations to ensure that the Copenhagen criteria continue to be met is probably something we need to look at a little more. And perhaps the European Union should also consider what sanctions are available if a country joining the European Union falls back on a wrong course, as we are currently seeing with Hungary and Poland. Well, I don't know about Mr. Knox here. Kenneth Kristensen Berth agrees. However, I would like to give that concession to the opponents of membership, namely that we must have better opportunities to ensure that good development continues. If it doesn't, you have to have the opportunity to send people back out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162344	The questioner's second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162346	Mrs Zenia Stampe used the opportunity to talk about everything but the fact that the Radical Left votes one in the European Parliament and the exact opposite in the Folketing. I just think it is unsatisfactory for many people, because what has changed since November? It's only gone in one direction. It's just gotten even worse. So I guess there was even more reason to follow the call made by the European Parliament, including Mr Seligman. Morten Helveg Petersen has come. So I think that Mrs Zenia Stampe has made some very valid observations as to why she would ignore her party colleague Mr. Morten Helveg Petersen's call in the European Parliament. Normally the Radical Left does not listen to Mr. Morten Helveg Petersen, but in particular to the European Parliament. I know that the Radical Left listens to everyone. I remember all those posters with experts, and I don't know who. But why is it that Mrs. Zenia Stampe won't listen to Mr. Morten Helveg Petersen in this case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162434	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162435	Why is it that Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth won't listen to what I'm saying? Because I'm explaining why we're acting the way we are. Well, then, sir. Morten Helveg Petersen explains somewhere else why he has done what he has done. Well, that's not what's at the heart of this whole thing. It's political teasing. Why not relate to what is the substance? Is this good for the process? And respect for those who believe that the suspension of negotiations would benefit Turkey's development. I do not believe that, but that is what the discussion should be about. The fact that we have voted differently and we are not the only party to have it, yes, that is the way it is. But let's discuss what's up and down in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162525	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162529	Thank you. I would just like to emphasise that this is not a debate on whether or not Turkey should be allowed to join the European Union. So, if Turkey meets the requirements, if the Turkish people so wish, then it is the position of the Enhedslisten that they should be allowed to do so. So it has nothing to do with this proposal. This is a proposal to put pressure on the Turkish Government and the President, because it must have an effect on the repression that is taking place. And I have to say that it provoked me a little when the rapporteur said that it should be a symbolic proposal, for the simple reason that I spoke to a representative of the democratic opposition in Turkey last Tuesday, a representative who lives in exile in Europe, because he would simply go to prison if he was in Turkey, and he said that it is absolutely crucial that we put pressure on Erdogan and that it is important that there should be a temporary suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed. So I would just like to hear: do you not make an impression on the Radical Left when it is the message of the democratic opposition?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162636	Yes, but we also hear the opposite argument, in other words that some people say that it is important that we do not push Turkey away, that we do not push the progressive and democratic forces away. And we risk doing that by slamming the door in. I am not really experiencing the great ideological disagreement about this, but it is a question of assessing how to push the reactive or reactionary forces and how to promote the democratic forces. I do not believe that isolation of a country, an opt-out of dialogue, brings very good results. And I certainly do not think that this is something that makes a great impression on Erdogan; on the contrary, he will really be able to say: it is the European Union that has chosen us from, now we are going our own way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162741	The questioner for the second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162742	I was an election observer in Turkey during the referendum and there I visited a prison with over 6,000 prisoners, and up to half of them were teachers, trade unionists, journalists, academics, mayors, parliamentarians who had been imprisoned since the failed coup attempt. It has to be said that for them the bars are being slammed very much in, and this proposal is exactly about putting pressure on those who have slammed the bars in to the democratic opposition, so that they can be opened again. So I have to say that I am deeply sorry that the Radicals do not want to contribute to the pressure being put on him, and I do not believe in any way that putting pressure on Erdogan is to give him a gift, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162831	After all, I have not spoken to the people who are in prison, and I understand if they think that it would be appropriate for Erdogan to be punished. I understand that, in other words, they want there to be a consequence. However, I am thinking of all those who are out there voting against the amendment of the Constitution and who want a more democratic, Western, European Turkey... will we not put out a hope in them if we slam the door in? Will they not then think: Well, now the reactionary forces of our country have won; it is a lost battle, so we might as well not fight? I'm afraid that's what's happening. But it is a matter of assessment, and now we have heard before the Social Democrat rapporteur, who also knows Turkey very well, and who points to the latter, that is to say those with whom hope is being put out. But I understand if there are people in prison thinking: how can they continue to negotiate with a dictator who has thrown us behind bars and who is not moving at all towards meeting the criteria for membership of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162949	The next short remark is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505162953	I cannot help but focus on the progress that has been made in the European Union. I'm so sorry. I am sure that if the opponents of the European Union had said ten years ago that the European Union will shortly be negotiating accession with countries that are semi-dictatorial and where the President has absolute power and the opposition is in prison etc., it would be said that this is a completely crazy claim and the European Union could never dream of that. It's happening today. Let it go. We were a delegation from Parliament in Turkey. We were actually pretty many down there. We had some really good meetings. Among other things, we had... A meeting with an Armenian parliamentarian, who is, of course, also accused because he is a Christian Armenian and has said something about the genocide, has been attacked in parliament and so on. He said to us: look at what happened when Russia confronted Erdogan. When Russia told Erdogan that it is now over and closed off what could now be closed to Turkey, 0.5 seconds went by, and then Erdogan came creeping because Erdogan is extremely weak. What will not happen if the European Union used the enormous means of power that exist in trade, open trade routes, pre-accession aid and others. What enormous results will it produce if you use it? Should we not do what is being proposed and on the basis of Russia's experience?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163129	Then I think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard opens a slightly wider discussion, i.e. whether to start thinking about sanctions or economic interests. I think this is a slightly different discussion, although I know that it is also an element in the accession negotiations. We must be honest there too, and say that Erdogan has a squeeze on us. That is not why we continue to be in accession negotiations with Turkey, but that is perhaps one of the reasons why many people will be a little afraid to start that nerve war because we are afraid that there will be a new refugee crisis. I'm just saying to be honest. We are in a huge dilemma about this in Denmark, but not least in my own party, because we would also like to help stop the flow of refugees, but an agreement with Erdogan in the situation that is now and with the treatment that is of refugees is not a policy that we are insanely proud of. But it's just to be completely honest, as to why it can be difficult to put the thumb screws on. Well, that's because Erdogan's got a squeeze on us. But I do not think that this is the reason why we are not going to conclude the negotiations. It is because we believe in the dialogue that we still have access to discuss these things with Turkey, even if they are moving in the opposite direction, so that we can show that it is not impossible in a very, very distant future that Turkey could become part of the European Union. It could give hope and motivation to fight for some Turks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163315	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163318	But it is quite true that if you have sat down in a sufficiently stupid place, you can get into a trap. I am quite sure that there are many economic interests in the German car industry, and they will be very sad if suddenly there were to be closed to make spare parts, spare parts, parts for cars, for a low wage in Turkey and then no longer get them into the European Union without any customs duties. They would see it as a huge problem if it were suddenly closed off there. Then they'll make less. But it's kind of a choice you've made yourself in. I just think it is crucial to stick to the fact that, for Turkey, the European Union is the crucial market. I think that's about. 50% Turkey's exports and imports to the EU. This means that the European Union has enormous opportunities. If this proposal does not satisfy the Radicals, I would just like to ask that we get a proposal from the Radicals on what we are doing in concrete terms and what initiatives we are taking specifically to do something about the situation in Turkey. I'm not asking it to come now. But now we have been discussing this for quite some time now, and I do not really think there is going to be any bids. So can I not have a promise that such a bid will come from the Radicals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163441	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163442	I agree with the Enhedslisten that we should perhaps put our heads in a soft spot, considering what sanctions are available to Turkey, even if we see developments continue. And we have also been working on the idea of suspending these accession negotiations, but we know very well and that is also why we are against today that it will not really have any effect. On the other hand, imposing sanctions can have an effect. I'm not saying it has, but it could have. That is why I will at least sign and say that I think this is a relevant discussion, and I think it might also be helpful in some ways if Enhedslisten were to continue this discussion in a debate on sanctions, because what I think will in fact be far more effective than these accession negotiations. However, whether the European Union is willing to do so, not only because of its economic interests, but also in the light of the refugee agreement we have with Turkey, is of course highly questionable. However, I fully agree that this is a discussion that we need to have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163553	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments right now. The next speaker is the rapporteur for the SF, sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163609	Thank you to Enhedslisten for making this proposal. The debate that has taken place is, in fact, very interesting and also reflects the dilemmas that I think we have all faced at least those of us who actually want Turkey to join the European Union. It is a wish we have had for several years. In fact, we believe that there would be extremely great prospects for a moderate Muslim country to become a member of the European Union, particularly in terms of security policy, because of the situation in the Middle East, but also in terms of internal developments in Turkey. That is why we have always supported the Turkish accession negotiations, but it is, of course, on the assumption that they must comply with the Copenhagen criteria, that they must have arranged relations with the Kurds in both the Kurdish areas and the other places where there are many Kurds. This is on the whole on the basis of a condition of democratic development in Turkey. That has been our premise. We have also rejected proposals in the past that negotiations should be interrupted because we felt that it would be counterproductive in relation to the possibility of being able to influence Turkey. However, I understand very well the arguments put forward by several parties here today about this. On the other hand, there is also a time when we have to stop and ask ourselves whether this is not the time for us to react in a different way than we have done. Because if we can now see Turkey moving as much towards an autocratic, almost dictatorial regime as possible, and if Turkey in relation to the Middle East is as counterproductive as it can possibly be imagined where it is bombing the forces that are helping us in the fight against the Islamic State, then it is, as it were, that we have to ask ourselves whether we have not got to where we have to react, because if we have any sense whatsoever that we have the possibility of suspending it, it is now that we have to use it. We attach great importance to the fact that there is no interruption. We still believe that it will be important if the conditions for Turkey to become a member of the European Union are fulfilled to become a member of the European family. We believe that this will be a good thing in terms of security policy and for many different reasons. But it is obvious that this presupposes a different development. That is why we intend to support this proposal, because it is an opportunity to put greater pressure on Turkey. To that extent, we are very dependent on Turkey: yes, but I also believe that we should have in mind that Turkey is also very dependent on the European Union. It's an addiction that goes two ways. I think we have to keep that in mind all the time, because as weak as many people make us, we are not in relation to Erdogan either. That is why I also believe that we need to adapt our policy to the fact that we are not necessarily in the weak position, because, as some say, Turkey is as dependent and perhaps more dependent on us than we are on them. However, as I said, we are in favour of this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505163959	I should just like to make sure that it is true that there are no short comments. He has resigned, so thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur in the series of speeches is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, Conservative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164015	Thank you. We fully agree with the proposers that the situation in Turkey is extremely critical and unsustainable. Like everyone else in this Chamber, I am genuinely concerned about the developments that we see in Turkey. However, I do not entirely agree with the authors of the motion that the continuation of negotiations on Turkish EU membership means that the Turkish Government's approach, as set out in the proposal, should be stamped. I think we are in agreement quite a long way. We agree so far that we all want to put maximum pressure on Turkey. That is why this debate, which many have also mentioned, is more about objectives and means. That is why I also have quite a lot of sympathy for the reasons on which the motion for a resolution is based. We just have different views as to what is the right way to bring about real change in Turkey and for Turkish citizens. As the Foreign Minister also said in his speech, we are faced with a Turkey moving away from Europe, away from the European Union and away from everything we stand for here in Denmark. But we, and especially the democratic forces in Turkey, have no interest in Turkey being pushed even further in the wrong direction. At the same time, we also have no interest in strengthening Erdogan's arguments that the European Union is not interested in real negotiations with Turkey anyway. So if we suspend negotiations with Turkey, I think we will weaken the democratic forces and strengthen Erdogan further. At the same time, I would also like to say that I find it very, very difficult to believe that Turkey will ever go where they can join the European Union. However, I still believe that we should work for and hope that they are moving in the right direction. We cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164234	Thank you. I have three comments for short notice, and the first is Mr Beazley's report. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164248	I have to admit, I'm a tiny bit tired of hearing the Conservatives blow and having flour in my mouth. See, on March 25, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov on Facebook updated that he had been with the OSCE in Turkey. He will be asked later in that update whether he would still like to cooperate with Turkey, and Mr. Rasmus Jarlov very clearly quote: Cooperation to curb the flow of refugees? Yeah. But they can forget about ever joining the European Union with the developments they are making. It doesn't even have on the ground. That was a clear statement from Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. Turkey should never be a member of the European Union. How on earth can it then be that the Conservatives can come up with the idea of not supporting the resolution we are debating today, if, as Mr. Rasmus Jarlov here says that Turkey should never be part of the European Union is conservative policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164356	I also thought I was very clear when I said that I also do not believe that Turkey will ever go where they are ready to become part of the European Union. Now I don't remember the facebook issue myself, but if you quote correctly, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that with the development that Turkey is in right now, he cannot see that it is ever going to happen. I fully agree with him on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164421	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164422	So that's it, sir. Rasmus Jarlov therefore believes that at some point it may well be that Turkey should be a member of the European Union. Is that the Conservative policy? When I ask you so earnestly, it's because I hear Mr. Simpson over and over again. Rasmus Jarlov expressed a desire for a policy that is in very strong contrast to what is government policy, and it may well be a little bit tiring. When Mr. Rasmus Jarlov does not have the habit of showing up in this Chamber, I have to ask Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck about it. So is it the policy of the Conservative People's Party that Turkey can eventually become a member of the European Union, or is it the policy of the Conservative People's Party that Turkey can never ever become a member of the European Union? Is that one thing or the other?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164509	Our position is that we do not want to suspend these negotiations because we want Turkey to develop in a reform-friendly direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164521	The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164524	Thank you. What I would like to hear is whether there is agreement on this in the Conservative Parliamentary Group. Because today in Berlingske you can read that Mr. Naser Khader says he actually agrees with this proposal. That is why the question arises: what are the positions of the Conservative Parliamentary Group? Is it a unanimous parliamentary group behind the rejection of this temporary suspension proposed by Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164559	It has been discussed at the Conservative Group meeting and we agreed that we could not support this resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164609	The questioner for his second brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164611	Okay. It is such a strange situation that you can read in the newspaper that MPs from the Conservative People's Party are against, but there is a group that is united. I am of course surprised that this is the situation, but what I would just like to hear from the Conservative rapporteur is: when is enough enough? What's it gonna take to draw a line in the sand? Now we have a situation where people from the opposition are imprisoned and there is gross repression. When would it be possible to make a temporary suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164652	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164653	This has been discussed several times here today, including from the platform. In other words, we have all said that we agree that the situation in Turkey is unsustainable and that we want Turkey to develop in a different direction than it is on its way to. But we haven't come to that enough is enough. We would rather continue to take the negotiating route and believe that this is the way we go the longest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164721	The next question for a brief comment is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164724	I have to say that I find it very difficult to understand what is the conservative position, not only because, after the trip I mentioned before, Rasmus Jarlov was very clear, and Naser Khader is very clear in his mind, but also because the Conservative People's Party was running an election campaign in 2009 for a candidate who went to the polls to suspend the accession negotiations with Turkey. The candidate's name was Bendt Bendtsen, and e.g. On 29 April, you could read: You have to try to find a middle way for Turkey. Turkey must be offered a so-called privileged partnership where it must take part in the common foreign and security policy, but, Bendt Bendtsen says, Turkey must not have full membership of the European Union. That's what you're talking about. And it was well to note in a situation where democracy was progressing that the Conservative representative said: Turkey should not be part of the European Union. Now we are in a situation where things are going disastrously in the wrong direction, and then the Conservatives say that we must continue the negotiations. I just have to say that I cannot quite understand how this is connected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164845	Well, I'm sorry the questioner doesn't understand. As I said, we all agree that developments in Turkey are going the wrong way. Conservatives nevertheless support the government's line in that we want to negotiate with them, that we want to create hope and hopefully produce results that can support the democratic forces that are still in Turkey and that want to develop the country in the right direction. And that is what we want to negotiate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164919	But the rapporteur should not worry about whether I understand that it is not so important. The important thing is whether the rapporteur understands that. So, does the rapporteur understand Conservative policy? In 2009, when democracy is moving forward in Turkey, they say: Stop! The accession negotiations must be suspended; there must be no authorisation for Turkey to become a member of the European Union. And then, a few years later, when things are going in the wrong direction, they say: the accession negotiations with Turkey must under no circumstances be interrupted, they must be continued. In other words, does the rapporteur himself understand this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505164957	Yeah, I understand the timeline and historical line you're explaining. However, we have a starting point which means that we would like the negotiations to continue, so that, hopefully, Turkey can be developed in the right direction and not continue the wrong direction that it has been developing in recent times.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505165021	Thank you to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beazley. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505165031	Thank you. It makes no sense to negotiate EU membership with a country where democracy is short-circuited. In short, that is the background to this motion for a resolution. EU accession negotiations with Turkey should be temporarily suspended until democratic rights are guaranteed. That is the substance of this motion for a resolution. This is in line with the adoption by a large majority of the European Parliament and is in line with the adoption by a united Austrian Parliament. It is very important to note that the proposal is temporarily suspended so that negotiations can resume if democratic rights are guaranteed. So it is not a permanent, an eternal stop, and I think that is important to emphasise, both to the Folketing, but also to those who sit and follow it. And I would very much like to warn against using the argument that I have heard more and, unfortunately, the Foreign Minister also advocated, which is that temporary suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed should be the same as closing the door. It is a rhetoric which I have no doubt is being used by the Turkish Government and by Turkish President Erdogan, but that is by no means what this proposal contains. I think it is important to consider in general terms whether it makes any sense to put pressure on Turkey at all. Earlier today, the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth states that it has no consequence whatsoever when there is criticism from Europe, i.e. that Erdogan is out of educational reach. I quote very freely right now, but that was the essence of it, as Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth said. That's not true. At any rate, that is by no means my impression. So, I think that the very desperate reaction of the Turkish President, on top of the clear criticism of the international election observers, where he was very, very desperate and burned a lot of bridges, both to the Council of Europe and to the OSCE, clearly shows that he is being pressured when there is international criticism. I can also tell you that, when we had the discussion last week in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where we discussed whether there should be a decision on full monitoring of Turkey, so that Turkey could be better helped in meeting its obligations to guarantee fundamental democratic rights for its citizens, there were a lot of threats from the members of the Turkish delegation representing the Erdogan AKP party. You said that if it were adopted here, MEPs from Erdogan's party would emigrate from the House. There were even threats that Turkey would be withdrawn from the Council of Europe if the decision were taken. And those were completely empty threats. So, the reaction from Turkey, from the Turkish Government, was extremely subdued on top of this very, very clear decision, which was quite drastic because it was the first time in the Council of Europe's long-standing history back from 1947, that it was actually decided to put a country under full monitoring that had once come out of monitoring. So I think it is important to emphasise that pressure works and that we should be careful to believe in the rhetoric and empty threats that come from the Turkish Government and the Turkish President in Ankara. Unfortunately, I think that too many people in this Parliament have argued against the proposal, which has gone along with the rhetoric, and I do not think that in any way benefits the debate on the proposal, on the contrary. This proposal is important because there is a need to put pressure on the Turkish President. It was not so long ago that the Danish Parliament discussed a similar proposal, which several people have also mentioned. Back then there was support for the proposal from us in the Enhedslisten, from SF, from the Alternative and from the Danish People's Party. If we then put it again, it is because, unfortunately, the situation in Turkey has deteriorated considerably. In short, democracy in Turkey is short-circuited, the democratic opposition is imprisoned, tens of thousands of union members, teachers, academics, mayors, journalists and parliamentarians are imprisoned. As an election observer in the referendum, I visited a large prison, located just outside the city of Izmir, with more than 6,000 prisoners, that is quite a lot and up to half of the inmates in this prison are simply political prisoners in custody after the failed attempted coup. It does not say so little about developments in Turkey right now that there is a situation where up to half of the prisoners in a random prison are from the opposition to Erdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505165556	The referendum that was held was not only contrary to the Council of Europe, i.e. the Venice Commission's clear recommendations to the Turkish Government either to stop the state of emergency and to guarantee democratic rights, or to refrain from holding the referendum; no, the Turkish Government also failed to follow the clear recommendations of the Venice Commission, which it is otherwise obliged to follow, and held a referendum in a situation in which the country was in a state of emergency, where the democratic opposition was imprisoned, where the 'no' campaign was severely suppressed and their posters and election songs were banned, while Erdogan and his government were accused of abusing public funds to conduct a 'yes' campaign. Yes, the situation even ended so completely grotesque that when the election night had closed the polling stations, the Turkish electoral commission, which was otherwise supposed to be independent, but which in the months leading up to the referendum had had several of its members imprisoned and removed and replaced with government-believers, took the decision that it should now be allowed to count invalid, non-official votes. Some reports say that it was up to 2 million invalid votes that saw on election night were spoken to. I do not have an exact figure at this stage, but there is no doubt that it was a huge number. And it was not just a clear breach of what can be said about any form of international democratic standards; it was also a clear breach of the Turkish electoral law and something that, frankly, is extremely desperate. The fact that Erdogan's regime should sink so deep shows how pressure they are. And there is no doubt that, despite this formal victory in the referendum, Erdogan is actually an extremely pressured man. If you looked at the parties that supported a 'yes' vote in the referendum, he should have had more than 60%. the Turkish people with them, but now, with a short-term democracy and electoral cheat, he was hardly able to mobilise a majority. It is a pressed man and the question is what can we do to increase that pressure and help the democratic forces. I would like to stress that this is what this is all about. This proposal is to extend a helping hand to the forces currently in prison. Only last Tuesday I spoke to a representative of the left-wing HDP party, which is the party that has been subjected to the greatest repression and which has many of their parliamentarians and huge numbers of their mayors, virtually all, imprisoned, and their message was quite clear: we need a temporary suspension until democratic rights are guaranteed; it is absolutely crucial for us that Erdogan's repression has a consequence. And that must be the message from me to Parliament's parties here today. Try to consider whether it really is right to continue accession negotiations with Turkey in a situation where elected parliamentarians are in prison, in a situation where democracy is short-circuited. For me, this is a need to give a helping hand to the democratic forces in Turkey, to give a helping hand to the people of Turkey and to ensure that there is repression in a country that is a member of the Council of Europe and that has committed itself to guaranteeing fundamental rights must have a consequence. I'm really afraid of the consequences if we don't act. Already today we have a situation in which the United Nations estimates that 500 000 civilians have been displaced in the Kurdish territories of Turkey. If we do not act now, there is no doubt that this development will continue and that many, many more will be chased on the run. That is why it is so much time to act, and that is why it is so crucial that pressure is put on Europe because the Turkish opposition is in prison. And I would like to stress once again that this is not a proposal to break the dialogue, this is not a proposal to slam the door on Turkey in no way. This is a proposal to put pressure on Erdogan on the basis of a sincere desire to help the pro-democratic forces in Turkey and on the basis of a sincere desire to help the Turkish people to secure its fundamental democratic rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170040	Thank you. And I can tell you that the College of Presidents is now ready with a new 2-hour period, so should the debate continue, we are fresh from here. In any case, Mr President, there is a brief comment in the first place. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170058	Thank you. The reason I am taking the floor is that Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen indicated that he disagreed with my analysis. It's sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, of course, is welcome to be, but I would like to ask Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, whether it really is his impression that the criticism made to the Turkish Government, to Erdogan, has had some positive influence over Turkey. Well, did it even work? Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen points to the fact that Erdogan sometimes gets excited and angry, and there I have to say: yes, this is a very typical Middle Eastern way of dealing with pressure, but that does not mean that there have actually been changes in Turkey. In other words, there have been no positive changes in Turkey. Isn't the truth just the fact that we are facing a megalomanic, self-glorifying, self-in love, egocentric despot who acts in the way such a person does?
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170202	No, I think that you cheat yourself if you think that Erdogan is completely impervious, and I think that the result in the referendum speaks its clear language. In other words, it is quite clear that the decision to count invalid votes was the last planned totally desperate move, a completely illegal move by the Turkish electoral commission, which was to be used only when one could see that the toilet was now burned, if I may be so free from the platform; I may not, but now it has been said. I think this shows that Erdogan is under pressure of criticism. I would say that it would have been very good if the Danish People's Party in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe had supported the fact that back in January we could have made the decision to put Turkey under full monitoring. The assessment from Turkey was that it could have moved 2-3 per cent, so it actually made it impossible for Erdogan even with electoral cheating to obtain a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170306	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170308	I think we've gotten a little closer this time, because I kind of agree with you. Nikolaj Villumsen so far that I think Erdogan is susceptible to criticism on board, that is, from the Turks, because there he is subject to the fact that he would like to be re-elected. But I have to say that I still do not believe that the criticism he is getting from outside is moving one millimetre; I do not think so. I think he basically feels that criticism is helping to strengthen him. And you can always discuss whether you should just shut up, but I certainly do not think so, because we have plenty of reasons to criticise Turkey. But I just have to say that I think it is very difficult to appeal to a better I at Erdogan, because I simply do not think it exists. I think he is simply a megalomaniac, that he is out of the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170401	Well, I'll just have to say to Mr. Knox. Kenneth Kristensen Berth that is what is the message from Turkey: that it actually helps when there is international criticism. And that is why it would have been so good if the Council of Europe had been allowed back in January to which the Danish People's Party unfortunately helped prevent a decision on full monitoring. For the assessment was that it could have moved 2-3 per cent, i.e. something that would have been completely impossible for Erdogan to do anything about, even with election cheating. And it was also very clear to look at the elections, where they had a situation in which the Turkish opposition was prevented from appealing and appealing in any way to anyone other than the very same electoral commission that had broken Turkish electoral law to allow the count of illegal votes. When a criticism came from the international election observers, it really hurt Erdogan, and he had to go so far as to do some desperate things, and I think that he is actually being pressured. For the Turkish people listen to what we are saying in Europe, and it is an important thing for us to note.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170502	Thank you. There is no one who can speak up for further brief remarks, so I thank you. As you know, when no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations are over. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on European Affairs. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170505170535	Then I would like to thank a minister, two officials, three other loyal officials and five members of parliament for their work today and for the work of the week in the service of the people's government. Come home safe and have a good weekend. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 9 May 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
