ParlaMint-DK_20170425130007	The meeting is open. Then there must be silence in the Chamber, because now we have to start with the first item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130050	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 79 by Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour of 69 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 24 (DF and T). Proposal for adoption No V 79 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 78 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Finn Sørensen (EL) and Pernille Schnoor (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130202	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is one proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 82 by Liselott Blixt (DF), Yildiz Akdogan (S), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Kristian Hegaard (RV), Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and Nase Khader (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and T), [against 0], abstention 9 (EL). Proposal for adoption No V 82 adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130305	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 80 by Jep Jakobsen (DF), Jane Heitmann (V), May-May-Britten Kattrup (LA) and Orla Østerby (KF), and voting is possible. The vote will end. in writing. - 54 (DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstained from voting on 1 (T). Proposal for adoption No V 80 adopted. After that, the draft adopted by the Committee of the Regions No 1 was adopted. V 81 af Orla Hav (S), Stine Brix (EL), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Kristian Hegaard (RV) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130420	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 84 by Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen (S), Jan E. Jørgensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA), Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT), Zenia Stampe (RV), Holger K. Nielsen (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF), and voting is possible. The vote is over. In favour, 74 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 32 (DF and EL), abstained on 1 (T). Proposal for adoption No V 84 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 83 of Kenneth Kristensen Berth (DF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130534	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 86 by Leif Lahn Jensen (S), Anni Matthiesen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). A vote can be taken. The vote is over. In favour of 69 (S, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 24 (DF and T). Proposal for adoption No V 86 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 85 of Finn Sørensen (EL), Bent Bøgsted (DF) and Torsten Gejl (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130651	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendments has ended and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130702	If we do not have a vote, I shall look at Amendment No 3. 1 and 2 by the Minister for Industry as adopted. They are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130712	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130721	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF) voted against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 1 (T). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130803	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130823	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. in writing. - 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstained from voting on 1 (T). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130856	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130912	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 108 votes (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and T), [against 0 abstentions], 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425130942	No amendments have been tabled. Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left, would like to make a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131000	Thank you. In a few moments, we will be voting on a legislative proposal which will allow for the language assessment of two-year-olds. Unfortunately, that is the wrong answer to an otherwise good question, because we all agree in here that all children should have a chance, no matter what family they grow up in. In the Radical Left, however, we believe that we should take action in the past and do so by building confidence instead of using coercion. Because with this bill, the government's gonna be late when you want to take action when kids are two years old. Children learn the most important things in the first months and years of their lives, and therefore we must support the family from the very beginning. If it were up to me, we should give the opportunity for healthcare professionals, together with educators, to come home in the family and help support the child's development from the beginning and build bridges to the day care institution. On the other hand, it is also too early to make a language assessment for two-year-olds because the test is simply too narrow and too uncertain. There is a need for a broader assessment which not only looks at whether a 2-year-old child can say the right words, but also looks at whether you can maintain eye contact, whether you can point to things, and whether you can have shared attention and use gestures and mimics at all. The minister has improved the bill by opening up municipalities to choose to make a broader assessment, but then every municipality will have to invent the deep plate. So I would like to use the third reading to call on the Minister to sit down and call on the leading experts in the field of children and languages and to make some common recommendations. For the recommendations are not only important for how to make the assessment, but also for what help you put in with afterwards. It is not the case that pigs get heavier by being weighed, and children do not start by saying hat; language is so much more than that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131206	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. Minister for Children and Social Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131216	Thank you. I would just like to point out that today there is a set of screenings which are, of course, adapted to the three-year-olds. Now that there is an opportunity to modify it so that the 2-year-olds can also be screened, a whole new material will be developed adapted to the two-year-olds. After all, this has also been discussed here at first reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131239	Thank you, Minister. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131245	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. 87 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) voted against 19 (EL, ALT and RV), abstained on 1 (T). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131320	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131341	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 107 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and T) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The draft parliamentary resolution has been adopted unanimously and will now be sent to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131423	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131452	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131515	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (DF). The vote is over. In favour 23 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), we abstained from voting on 1 (T). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2, to be elected by a majority (the committee with the exception of IA)? The amendment has been adopted. I propose that the proposal should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131556	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425131613	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2, to be elected by the Committee (with the exception of IA)? The amendments have been adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 3 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 59 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (T). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 4 of a minority (EL), joined by another minority (ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 82 against (S, DF, V, LA and KF), 1 abstention (T). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 5 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 60 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (T). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 60 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (T). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 7 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 45 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 58 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (T). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 8 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour 46 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 60 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (T). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 9 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF, ALT, RV and SF) and can be voted on. The vote will end. In favour of voting 43 (DF, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 57 (S, V, LA and KF), abstentions 1 (T). The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132025	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132042	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, member of the Committee? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132133	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132158	The debate is open, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132217	This bill is intended to ensure that police are given better tools to prevent and investigate crime through data-based analysis tools. This is a proposal that we in the Social Democratic Party support, and we do so because data and analysis are increasingly important tools for Danish police in the fight against those who want to harm our society and break our laws. The old, romantic notion that police work alone was something that could be handled by the local officer on a bike does not, unfortunately, hold in a modern society. Here, access to data is constantly increasing, and that is what this bill is supposed to support. A clear legal basis is thus created for the collection and processing of publicly available information by the police, both within and outside criminal justice. This bill also proposes to simplify police access to information on air passengers and crew members, while at the same time ensuring that airlines are only required to pass on information to SKAT. Finally, the draft law proposes that the Customs Act ensures that the police, as part of their work on entry and exit controls and targeted immigration controls, can obtain information through the electronic solution established by SKAT since 1 January 2017. In connection with the proposal, I would point out the need to have the right skills in the Danish police to process the data and do these analyses which are so crucial for modern police work. That is why I would also like to call for the public debate not only to focus on more officers. It is important, but at the same time it is crucial that we also focus on recruiting staff for the police, who are specialised in data analysis, and it is not always that people with police training are the most relevant to it, and therefore it is my call that we look at police employees instead of focusing solely on police officers. The proposal here is good, it is a step towards a world-class Danish police force, also in the future, and it is not least a very good tool to ensure that we remain one of the countries in the world with the greatest security and least crime. In these words, we in the Socialist Group can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132517	There are no comments. The next one is sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132528	Thank you. The proposal is about enabling stronger and more coordinated police action through a new IT platform to be used for cross-cutting analysis. Our starting point in this case is that, regardless of where crime occurs and happens, it must be pursued by the authorities, whether it is in the real, physical world or whether it is on the Internet. In recent years, of course, major changes have been made to the crime that is taking place in society, which is moving more and more on the Internet. It can be anything from sexual abuse of children to drugs and financial crime. Technological development is so roaring out of it, it goes only one way, and it will continue. That is why the police need to be given more opportunity than they are today to use the muscles that technology can provide them with to ensure that criminals who have found their way to the net can also be targeted. If we are to give the police the opportunities that we think are needed, it also requires that the proposed provision of the police law, which provides the legal basis for the use of data across the area, be implemented and that we implement the proposal to provide a clear legal basis for collecting public information for the purpose of solving police tasks. Then it is also proposed to amend the Customs Act so that airlines in the future only have to submit API information to the SKAT, where the police can then draw the information for the purposes of alien control. It must then be in relation to countries that are not part of Schengen. There should of course be no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party will, of course, work hard for effective and thorough border controls and immigration controls, not only in relation to countries outside Scheng, but in relation to all countries. We have precisely in relation to the API and the controls that have been carried out, among other things. at Kastrup Airport, had a consultation where we wanted to illuminate the current control to see if it is sharp enough. So we also support this element. We see this as a clear improvement in the ability of the Danish police to have border controls at the external borders. We have a number of questions in this regard, but we can ask them in the course of the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132747	The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132755	Thank you. The Danish police are in a situation of pressure. This is due, as everyone knows, to border and terrorist guarding, in addition to, of course, the other things, gangs and so on, which the police must be aware of at the moment. There is therefore a need to optimise the effort with the staff you now have, so not only in personnel terms, but also to ensure that modern analytical tools, including knowledge-based ones, are used to the extent that they are possible at all. Where street robbery took place 20 years ago, it is today the identity theft that marks the crime picture in that area. So it is important that the police, to a greater extent than in the past and with the tools available, organise the work analytically and knowledge-based, and here it is no good that, as today, a pillar-separated investigation is being carried out, where the police first search the crime register, then the weapons register and then the Central Register of Motor Vehicles and the photo register etc. etc. and then to see if it produces a common result. With the proposal we are debating today, there will be the possibility of a much needed combination of the many source systems used by the police, to the benefit of faster and more efficient processing. We are thereby providing the legal framework for such an analysis-based police effort by providing the necessary legal basis in the police law for the use of these tools. The proposal also proposes to simplify police access to data on passengers and crew members. That possibility is also needed in a modern world at risk of terrorism. So, with these comments, I would like to say that the Left can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132938	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425132955	This bill is one of the drafts, which is a little difficult to read and a little difficult to understand, and which also contains a number of ambiguities, which will also mean that I can immediately announce that we on the Enhedslisten will be asking a number of follow-up questions during the committee procedure. In general terms, I can say that, of course, we have no objection whatsoever to the fact that we have an IT-supported and effective planning of police work. However, we think that this bill and the individual elements that are are raise a whole series of questions in which we need to drill a little further. If we start with the opportunity to carry out cross-cutting information analyses, which can in fact be very sensible, we are concerned, in line with the Institute for Human Rights, about how access to these cross-cutting analyses will be and how data for the analyses will be collected. And the Institute of Human Rights writes that the draft law includes data processing, where Danish legal traditions require separate material legal bases. The Foundation also considers that the legal basis and framework for cross-cutting information analysis should be specified, including when cross-cutting information analysis is necessary and which activities can justify such analysis under section 2 of the Police Act. In their reply, the IT-Politics Association states that the Association understands the general observations in the bill that the bill does not aim to depart from the provisions of the Personal Data Act that the collection of personal data should be for explicitly stated and objective purposes and that subsequent processing should not be incompatible with those purposes. It is simply a question of the Personal Data Act, in which we have a clear definition that data can only be done for explicit and objective purposes, seems to conflict with what is stated in the bill, which provides for a very wide collection of information which does not necessarily go for very explicitly defined and stated purposes. And this seems to us to create some ambiguity about the legal certainty of citizens, the collection of citizens' data and, therefore, the monitoring of us as citizens in a free and democratic society. Then there is the question of collecting and processing information from publicly available sources, and that will be part of it here. And you just have to be aware of that as the Institute for Human Rights also points out that this kind of information may have been obtained illegally, and that publicly available information is not always correct either. And therefore, it may be that the framework for collecting external information, including publicly available information, should be clarified in relation to how the police in its work should use such information, including how to continuously ensure that there is proper data validation. The IT-Politics Association also writes in their thorough consultation response to this that they consider that the concept of any information that can be provided and the definition of publicly available sources are very far-reaching and that it is unclear what the Personal Data Act can provide to the police with regard to the collection of personal data from publicly available sources. So we seem to have a lack of clarity which creates an unclear legal situation. Then there is the part of the draft law which deals with the ambiguities inherent in the draft law, and it will certainly be up to the Minister for Justice to define the details of it by means of announcements. This means that this should not be done through legislation in the Folketing. And here I have to say that we have a legislative proposal which is now in place and which clearly has a large number of ambiguities in relation to what information can be collected about citizens and how they can be used and how that information should be processed, whether they might be contrary to the applicable personal data law, but it would then be up to the Minister of Justice to make a lot of announcements which should define the scope of it. And when we talk about how the guidelines should be for a massive collection of information about citizens, I simply think that the right thing should be something that belongs to the legislative power. So it is not something that a Minister of Justice can sit and decide over with himself. So this is something that we should adopt with legislation here in the Folketing. We also have the whole surveillance aspect as part of this. After all, we have had some very extensive discussions about the mass monitoring of citizens, that is to say, the monitoring of people who are suspected of crime, where we specifically go in and carry out necessary monitoring with the tools that may be available, of people who are suspected of committing crime. We are talking about the mass surveillance that is currently taking place. We know it from the lodge and the discussions that have taken place about what is currently being gathered about citizens, about where they are and many other things, even if we are talking about citizens who have never committed or are going to commit crime. This is the whole discussion about logging, and it has a mass monitoring angle, which may also be relevant in this context. The Institute of Human Rights writes that they consider that the interference with the right to respect for privacy and they refer to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which could happen after the bill, can be relatively serious, as it will be possible to make very precise mappings of citizens' private relationships, including those who are not suspected. In this context, the Foundation questions whether the cross-cutting information analyses will actually lead to a general monitoring and thus the suspicion of all Danish citizens, but without the legal guarantees normally provided by investigative actions aimed at individuals. So this is the whole discussion, i.e. whether this is another variant of mass surveillance, of which we have had a long and for the time being very thorough discussion, but which will certainly continue when we talk about logging and mass surveillance of citizens. On the part of the Enhedslisten, we are certainly in favour of the police having surveillance tools to monitor people who are thus suspected of committing crime, but we find mass surveillance of all citizens in a democratic society to be fundamentally problematic. In relation to the last part on the amendment of the Customs Code, it is also one, what should be said, of the whole discussion on the registration of air passenger data, and when the speaking time has been exceeded) from the Institute for Human Rights and the Data Protection Agency is a criticism of the specific model, nor are we in favour of it. I'm sorry, President, but sometimes it's a very long bill in the Justice Department, so it's...
ParlaMint-DK_20170425133721	It's a discussion that you don't go with the President at this time or at this place. There are no brief comments. Here you go, sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425133744	As the previous rapporteurs have so well explained, the draft law provides the police with a clear legal framework for analysis-based police action. The tasks facing the police are becoming more and more complex and there is a greater need for the police to be able to effectively analyse very large amounts of data. An analysis-based police effort is a tool that can be used for a wide range of types of cases, and a tool that the police are looking for in order to keep up with the times and developments and work effectively with the investigation in various areas of crime. With the threat picture we are currently experiencing, not only against Denmark, but against the whole of Europe, it is important that the police have the tools that can help them to effectively combat all forms of crime. Specifically, with regard to the handling of information on air passengers and crew members, this is just a condition we have to accept, and I would therefore just like to note from the platform today that, when it comes to this, I see it as an advantage that the legislative proposal ensures the possibility of establishing a cooperation with SKAT, which is already authorised under the Customs Act to receive this data. The changes are, according to the Liberal Alliance, within acceptable limits and therefore the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425133927	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425133931	Thank you. I am a little more interested to hear about what the Liberal Alliance is laying down to support this other than what we could hear from the rapporteur in the speech. And as has also been explained, there are a large number of consultation responses from a large number of organisations dealing precisely with citizens' rights to privacy and so on. So when these rather serious consultation answers are presented to the rapporteur, why do they not weigh more heavily? Will the rapporteur put a few more words on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134006-2	In fact, as I said in my speech, I think that is acceptable, but I also give the previous rapporteur, Mr President. Rune Lund, right in that there are some concerns here, and that is something we certainly need to be aware of in relation to mass surveillance • there has also been mention of session logging etc. That is also something that we in the Liberal Alliance are concerned about, but as I said in the speech, these changes are within acceptable limits, which is why we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134045	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134046	Well, thank you. For example, the Legal Society notes that cross-cutting analyses provide a very profound insight into people's lives, their habits, their movements, etc., and therefore it is a rather serious interference with privacy. And when the rapporteur recognises that there have been some reflections in the Liberal Alliance, could this be something we could discuss in committee, in other words whether we could find ways of addressing some of the concerns expressed in the consultation answers?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134122	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134123	Thank you. And again, as I have said in many other situations, one must always be open to discussing this at all levels, including in committee work, so of course we would very much like to do so. But the position of the Liberal Alliance is that these changes are within acceptable limits and that there must also be the possibility that police work can develop in relation to the current threat picture and developments in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134150	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134204	In this bill there are two elements, as has also been mentioned: the first part gives the police the power to use the recently purchased analysis system, POL-INTEL, which can carry out broad data-based analyses, both across internal registers and databases, but also through the use of publicly available information. The second part simplifies the police's access to information on air passengers and crew members, while at the same time the airlines only have to record information in one place, namely with SKAT, by this tax solution. I think I will use a quote from the Institute for Human Rights's hearing defence to actually say where we stand in the alternative in relation to this bill. For they write on page 4 of their hearing answer, and I quote: 'The draft law pursues a legitimate purpose, but the question is whether the legal basis is sufficiently clear and whether, moreover, the intervention is necessary and proportionate. That's the challenge of this bill. That is also why it is being criticised as widely as it does in the consultation responses. After all, the Institute for Human Rights, the University of Copenhagen, the Association for Legal Affairs, the IT-Politics Association are all criticising the creation of a very broad legal basis for the Minister's Institute for Human Rights and the Association for Legal Affairs, fearing that it will be possible to carry out very precise surveys of the private situation of the citizens. We have heard this from some of the others in this Chamber, including those who are not under suspicion. I believe that there are some elements in the answers to the hearings from the Institute for Human Rights, which are of particular importance to us. Now the Enhedslistens, sir. Rune Lund one of the elements up. I would like to read another one, which I also think is right at the heart. It says here, and it is a quote from the same hearing answer: "Seen from a legal point of view, police tools should be specified directly in the law. However, the Ministry of Justice has suggested that this clarification should be made by means of a notice. For the same reason, it is difficult to carry out an adequate proportionality assessment on the basis at hand. This leads the Institute of Human Rights to list a number of requests for clarification in their consultation responses, which they thus call on the Minister or Ministry to ensure are written into the legislation. If the Minister and the Ministry are ready to go a little further and give us others the security that is needed in order to clarify some of the more concrete elements of this bill, for example. When you are allowed to go in to apply for these analyses, when you can do these cross-cutting analyses, and what that means is that it is necessary and what the concept of necessity covers, we would like to look at it again in the Alternative. There's a lot of confusion in it. To the extent that we want to deal with the consultation answer from the Institute for Human Rights, we would like to look at it again in the Alternative, but as it stands right now, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134527	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134538	For us, this is also a difficult balance. Unlike my predecessor, we may be leaning towards scepticism, because of course there is no doubt that it makes sense for the police to start working more analytically and to use the data available to the police, which is otherwise publicly available, and to try to identify patterns in order to better target and plan police action. That makes really, really good sense. But I think it is a difficult proposal to deal with. Some examples have been given of when such a tool is to be used or can be used, namely in connection with financial crime, and it may be the traffic police who use it, but I cannot really see what else it opens up for. I can only use my own imagination, and I really think it might be very interesting to have a talk with the police about other examples, or we could test some examples of horror by asking if it would also be a case where one would consider using these funds. There could be, for example: It is a question of the whole of residential areas which would be subject to massive surveillance and the coordination of information or registers because they know that there is a high rate of crime. But what does this mean for legal certainty for the people who live in the residential areas? Will it be the kind of thing this is opening up to? It is just to be completely open about the doubts that I think this raises in me because I cannot fully understand the scope of this proposal. Two good examples have been given which also intuitively make good sense to me, but could there be other examples that we would be more concerned about from a legal and monitoring perspective? Then there is the whole discussion about the clarification. Here I think there is a recognition in the legislative proposal itself that it is a very broad legal basis which needs to be clarified. That is why it is proposed that the Minister should clarify it; that is to say, the bill empowers the Minister for Justice to clarify the legal basis by means of a decree. There is the question of whether any of this clarification could not be made here in Parliament rather than over in the Ministry of Justice. These are some of the same points which have been mentioned and which have led some to say that the glass is half empty. We might be where we think it's half full. However, there are a number of issues that we share with some of those who have been up before us, which we would like to clarify before we are absolutely sure to give our agreement. And it's all about specifying when to do these cross-cutting analyses, the rules for data processing and the rules for data deletion. And then perhaps some more examples of what it should be used for, and also some examples of what it should not be used for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134847	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425134902	Like the Alternative and Enhedslisten, we are somewhat sceptical about this bill. We are talking about this with reference to the previous discussion, which has been about the risk of mass monitoring, and the rather extensive and very thorough consultation answers that have come from a number of organisations to which we often listen from the SF, especially when it comes to politics in this area. It is a question of what is known as the SKAT solution, which means legalising a practice with a legislative proposal that has been criticized quite a lot. And you use SKAT as a shortcut. I think it is a little strange from the point of view of legal certainty to use an authority which does not have authority in this area or competence to ensure that this information is provided. As other colleagues have mentioned, I note in particular some of the consultation responses which concentrate on the cross-cutting analyses and the information already collected by the police. So they create a very detailed insight into people's privacy, in their conduct, in their habits. As the Court of Justice Association notes, this is a very serious interference in a person's private life. There is also the Institute of Human Rights and the IT-Politics Association, which is very critical of us from the SF too, and I heard it was also from Enhedslisten that it is very much going to be announcements. I'm completely in line with Mr. Knox. Rune Lund. Especially in such an area as this, which is so serious and where there has also been a passing through time, as to what powers are being used for what new legislation is being used for. That in this way we should put something that is so serious away from the Folketing, the legislature, and into the hands of the Minister of Justice, no matter what the Minister of Justice it is, I think is a slip. Regardless of the content of the law, we are generally extremely careful to give it authority on the part of the SF. It is Parliament's privilege to make laws. This is especially true because we have experience in this area. New legislation and new powers are increasingly being used. It is a slippage that we cannot support, regardless of how we end up dealing with the rest of the substance of the proposal. In any case, we are going to make an amendment saying that this is what we want, so that we know what to do when we vote on it. Finally, I would like to say something about the views of the Institute for Human Rights and the IT-Politics Association on this with the publicly available information. They may have been obtained illegally. You don't necessarily know the quality of it. This is not a good way to ensure that this information is collected. In short, we have a large number of questions. It is clear that the police must also have some tools, but, as always in these debates, there are two considerations that need to be weighed against each other. We are not very comfortable with the way this bill has been implemented, so we have a number of questions in committee. And then we will most likely also table a few amendments. As I have just said, the law must at least be crystal clear when it is passed in the Folketing, no matter what else you see like it. That is why we are tabling an amendment to the effect that it should not be an announcement by the Minister; it is not an authorisation we give to the Minister, but we must know the law to its full extent when it is voted on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135338	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135345	It provides new forms of crime. Take, for example, the stories of pedophiles who pay online to see sexual abuse of minors online. It's awful. This is an example of how IT supports new forms of crime. Another example could be radicalisation. Fortunately, IT does not only provide new forms of crime. Data-based analysis can also help to provide police with better tools to solve, investigate and combat crime. With this bill, we will strengthen the Danish police. We provide the police with a legal framework that allows cross-cutting data-based analysis. New challenges require modern solutions. We would therefore like to help provide the police with a legal framework for both analysis-based police action and the collection and processing of publicly available information. In addition, the bill simplifies police access to information on air passengers and crew members. The Conservative People's Party wants to give the police up-to-date working conditions and we therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135511	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135520	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the largely positive reception of the draft law. Danish police are faced with an increasingly complex task profile. The police meet, for example. increasingly investigative challenges across a number of forms of crime, including: IT-supported crime such as: sexual abuse of children, drug crime, radicalisation and economic crime. At the same time, investigations by the police in a large number of cases are increasingly dependent on the police being able to analyse increasing amounts of data. It is therefore essential that the police have access to modern and up-to-date tools as part of their task-taking, while the use of such tools is regulated by a secure legal framework. The aim of the draft law is to create such a legal framework, both for analysis-based police action and for the collection and processing of publicly available information by the police. The draft law also aims to establish the legal basis for the police to receive information about air passengers and crew members, API information, via the electronic solution established by SKAT on 1 January 2017. The police already have the power, in accordance with the rules in force in the law on foreigners, to obtain this information for the purposes of immigration control. The proposal ensures that airlines will only provide information to one authority, i.e. SKAT, and that the police will not have to set up a parallel IT system in order to access the information. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the various contributions. I look forward to further consideration and, of course, have a great deal of sympathy for the fact that this naturally raises a number of technical questions during the committee procedure. And I would also like to point out that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has been offered a review and presentation of the system by the National Police, where there could also be an opportunity to see it and ask a number of questions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135738	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135742	Thank you for your ministerial speech. I would just like to clarify one thing in relation to the API information, which is, of course, written a lot about in the proposal here. And what I would like the Minister's assurance is that the collection and screening of these API data will be the same, whether you travel into Denmark from a Schengen country or from a non-Schengen country. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135811	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135812	Well, what is in this proposal about API information is essentially only about police access to what already exists today. There's nothing new about that. It's all about the fact that instead of the police building a parallel system, they can retrieve the information in the SKAT. And that makes sense, I think we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135830	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135832	Well, I totally understand that's what we're discussing today. But I'm asking about the general API information. In other words, will the same screening and collection of API data be carried out on people coming from a Schengen country, as if people coming from a non-Schengen country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135848	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135849	Well, no changes are made to the rules on API information. This may be another discussion that we should have at some point too, but the API itself is as it is. It's all about better access to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135906	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund. I would just like to remind you that it will make things easier if you press in if you would like to have two brief comments. Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135915	I would just like to ask some of the ambiguity in the draft law about the scope of this. And what I want to ask in concrete terms is whether the Minister can guarantee us here today that this bill does not imply a deviation from the provisions of the Personal Data Act that the collection of personal data should be carried out for specifically stated and objective purposes, and that later processing should not be incompatible with those purposes. Is that how it should be understood and can the Minister give that assurance here today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135950	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425135951	What is being processed here is thus the police's access to collecting and processing personal data, including from publicly available sources... is regulated by the Personal Data Act and the Code of Criminal Procedure, and this bill does not extend the police's access to collecting personal data in relation to what is currently in force. There will be no extended access to collect information in relation to what is currently in force if I understood the question correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140019	Here you go, sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140020	Well, then, we're actually back by what's actually possible with the Personal Data Act today. For, as the Institute of Human Rights writes, if you now say that there will be no new powers to collect information, and the Ministry of Justice and the Minister of Justice maintain that the police already have access to collect all the information that seems possible under the current proposal, then should we not ensure that we have the legal basis to collect the information that the Minister of Justice then says it is already possible to collect today, clarified, and not by an order from the Minister of Justice later on, but by taking a discussion here in the Parliament and that it is regulated by law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140100	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140101	Well, if we are to discuss the announcement part itself, I would say that it is provided for in the draft law that the new rules are not put into effect and POL-INTEL is not put into effect until detailed rules on the treatment of all information by the police are laid down in the form of a notice. It is therefore important, and I would like to stress this, to ensure as concrete a technology-neutral and comprehensive a regulation as possible, and this is therefore done most appropriately in the form of a notice. Then I would just like to say that the draft notice is going to be public consultation. Well, it's not something that comes out of the blue. There will be an opportunity for the public to comment on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140146	Thank you. Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140157	The debate is open, and it is the Minister of Justice first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140222	Sorry to keep you waiting. The Enhedslisten's bill is to repeal the so-called blasphemy clause in section 140 of the Penal Code. This is not the first time there has been a debate on the blasphemy clause of the criminal code, nor has it been the first time that a legislative proposal has been tabled to abolish the provision. In other words, the Blasphemy paragraph has been the subject of debate in the Folketing for many years, and that is with good reason, because it is not an issue that needs to be taken lightly, and that is why I would like to sign the Enhedslisten to raise an important debate. Let me begin by stressing that this government is naturally concerned with freedom of expression. Freedom of speech is a core value. Freedom of expression is also a fundamental prerequisite for a well-functioning democracy and for the development of society and the individual. Freedom of expression is fundamental to a democratic form of government in which voters can make their choices on the basis of a free political debate in which ideas and opinions can be presented and countered. As stated in the government base, we will therefore set up a commission to assess the framework and general conditions of freedom of expression in Denmark. The Commission shall, inter alia: describe what our tradition and history tells us about the development of freedom of expression in Denmark, what the legal basis for freedom of expression looks like today, and it should also look at whether we can learn anything from the countries with which we compare ourselves. The government expects to set up this commission by summer. There is no doubt that the attitude of the government is that if today we did not have a blasphemy clause, we should not do such a thing either. Having said that, it is important to bear in mind that the question of abolishing the blasphemy clause is not simple. It contains many elements of principle and complexity, which one can reasonably have different and nuanced views of. In 2014, the Criminal Code Council issued an opinion on the very issue of repealing the blasphemy clause. In its opinion, the Criminal Code Council points to a number of advantages and disadvantages of repealing the provision. Among the benefits, it is pointed out that the abolition of the blasphemy clause will strengthen freedom of expression in Denmark. The Criminal Code Council also points out that the development of society may be said to have rendered the provision out of date because the statements of opinion covered by the provision are no longer regarded as acceptable restrictions on freedom of expression. Among the drawbacks of abolishing the blasphemy clause, particular attention is paid to protecting religious minorities from gross violations of their religion. The Criminal Code Council also states that attention should be paid to how it will be perceived abroad. Outside Denmark, where the background for repeal could be simplified and perhaps also deliberately distorted, there would be a risk that political or religious leaders would interpret the decision as a religiously hostile signal and, at worst, as a hostile signal not only against religion in general but particularly against certain religions. It should therefore be borne in mind that the abolition could have security and foreign policy implications for Denmark. On the other hand, the repeal of the blasphemy clause could meet international recommendations. The Criminal Code Council also points out that the latest international recommendations from both the Council of Europe and the United Nations are that neither showing disrespect for a religion, that is, blasphemy, nor violating religious feelings should be criminalised. At the same time, abolition will be in line with developments in European countries where the Netherlands and Norway have relatively recently carried out such decriminalisation. As I said earlier, the blasphemy clause is certainly worth a discussion; there are advantages which are drawbacks of abolishing the paragraph, and I have already mentioned that. The Government fully acknowledges that this issue is both a fundamental and a complex issue, and it is therefore crucial that we in the Danish Parliament think it through thoroughly. We have a social responsibility to make the right decision, and that is why the government will, in the near future, gain experience from those countries which have recently repealed the blasphemy clause in their national legislation. This applies to countries such as Norway and the Netherlands: what kind of debate has it given, how has it happened, what does it give us to learn from? It is about being able to stand on the strongest possible basis when making the decision. The Blasphemy clause was introduced into Danish law in 1866 in its first edition and has thus been part of Danish law for more than 150 years. I therefore think we can wait a little longer to make the final decision, and I hope that it will not be the few months that that study will take that will separate us. On that basis, I can inform you that the government cannot support the draft law on the current basis. At the same time, I would like to say that we in the government have an open approach to further discussions with Parliament on this important and relevant issue. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140810	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140815	Thank you and thank you for that detailed answer. There was a little on one side and a little on the other side. The freedom of speech and the question of censorship go even further than what the Minister mentions, for there was an immigrant named Struensee who had it introduced, although briefly he did not do so well. But this is a discussion we have had for hundreds of years now. And the Minister himself acknowledges that there are a large number of highly respected international organisations which strongly recommend that we abolish the blasphemy clause, because, as the Minister himself says, it does not belong in a modern and secular society. It is, after all, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the United Nations Special Envoy for Freedom of Speech and Religion, the UN Human Rights Committee, the Council of Europe, the EU Foreign Service, Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch and many others. My question is, how long do we have to keep waiting? For the Minister refers to the Freedom of Freedom Commission, which did not arise in the government base but arose a year ago when we were parties that wanted it. But I am very pleased that it is then also in the government base. And that commission can then work for years. So my question is: why do we have to keep waiting? It's not like we haven't discussed this in a long, long time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140934	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425140935	I am sorry if I have expressed myself unclearly. It is not intended to be part of the Freedom of Freedom Commission. We are setting up a Commission on Freedom of expression, and we need to set it up with those Members who are now going to be on such a commission, and they need to look at it broadly. In parallel with this work, there will be a group in the Ministry which is examining exactly the part I was talking about here..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What did it give rise to, and what does it mean? So when I say that we can wait a few more months, I actually mean only a few more months in terms of getting that basis in place. And then I have the view that when we come in the autumn and have this examined, it is natural that we have a discussion of it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141022	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141024	Thank you. Now it is not about the Freedom of Freedom Commission, but there were several parties, SF and among others. also the Liberal Alliance, before they joined the government, which helped to reduce it. So we look forward to taking part in the debate on the terms of reference. But my question again is: what is it that needs to be investigated? Now the minister is saying that this should not be part of the Freedom of Freedom Commission. Well, then it's settled. Why can we not take the debate now in the Chamber? Yes, there are advantages and disadvantages, according to the Minister, but then you have to balance them against each other and then say clearly where you stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141100	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141101	Well, I think I've tried both properly and objectively to say what considerations you can have for and against and what the government is asking for and what we want. Because this can bring international challenges, and then you can choose to say: well, we do not weigh that in that bowl; it is not heavy enough, because we have some principles that we want to implement. We can end up there, and recently it was abolished in the Netherlands and Norway. And what kind of debate did this have? One could, of course, take into account what it might also influence a Danish debate. And when that investigation is done, you can come back. And that's within this year. It's not something that needs to be in a jelly jar... it's not the idea of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141141	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141143	I am, I must say, very disappointed by the Minister's speech here. You draw on a security argument. They say this is about, for example. with reference to a terrorist risk that people may think of taking it so badly that it can become uncomfortable for Denmark. I think that is quite lax. Every time something happens in the world, our leaders stand and agree with each other that this must never break us, that it must never break our values, that it must never break our freedom of expression, and now the country's Minister of Justice stands on the floor of the Danish Parliament and says that those feelings and reactions must be taken into account when we do the legislative work here at Christiansborg. I think that is simply too relaxed by this government. So I would urge you to get up to speed. Because this is very much a political discussion we need to have, and then we have to get on with what we want, and now I can only understand that the government has bought time for the other side of the summer holiday. I think that's a little unambitious.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141242	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141244	I hope, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen agrees with me that, as responsible Members of Parliament, we must, of course, take down whether there is a terrorist risk with this against embassies abroad or here at home, and that we must then consider that this can be a probable possibility. Then I didn't say, and I actually strained myself to say that it means that we must be against it. I really think that, in my speech, I quite clearly tried to say that there are some weights in one basket and some weights in the other basket and that I just think that we should take the safety perspective into account. And then there's just saying that, because we're taking this really seriously, because I kind of agree with you. Peter Kofod Poulsen's premise is just as happy to spend a few months looking at what has happened in the Netherlands and what has happened in Norway, and then you can decide what it will mean afterwards. Because I agree that it should not be terrorists who decide what legislation we have in Denmark. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Peter Kofod Poulsen in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141346	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141348	Yes, but this is also a political debate, and it should be, and the Minister has, in fact, very well listed some of the things that could speak for and against in his speech. So I don't really understand what it is that an investigation like that has to start. What is the specific nature of the study? Is it to find out that in Norway, Iceland and the Netherlands it actually works well? That will be the result, in other words, that we can come to a conclusion that in Holland, Iceland and Norway it actually works quite well. Things are under control, and the world is still standing. If it is, I don't understand why we have to wait until after the summer break. Then we can take the political debate now and start changing these rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141427	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141429	It is because we want to be absolutely sure, and then it can be said that it can be unambitious that the government cannot decide until after the summer break what it is. But since we have had this paragraph for 150 years and then we ask for a few months of reflection to examine everything, I do not think it can be called to train it violently.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141451	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141454	Now, on several occasions, the Minister says that we have had this paragraph for 150 years. Perhaps you should also look at it a little more historically, because if you go back to the old writings, you can already see that the recommendation in relation to blasphemers was that they should be stoned, and if we take the great book of law from 1683, Danish Law, and look in the sixth book, chapter 1, paragraphs 7 and 8, we can see that the penalty for witchcraft and blaspheming was the cutting of the tongue, decapitation and placing the tongue together with the head of a stag, and if someone had used a hand for the blasphemy, the hand should also be placed on the stag. Perhaps it was such a slightly different law than the one we are facing today, you might say, but the blasphemy clause is just a reminiscence of the past that we must get away from. It simply makes no sense in a modern society to have such a paragraph and to protect gods and beliefs by criminal laws in individual countries. That is pointless, I think, and therefore I cannot understand what the Minister needs, as well as being able to know extra in order to make a choice in relation to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141605	In other words, I hear it more as a political speech, for which I fully understand the arguments, it is not that. All we are saying is that in the world we live in, in the situation we are in, with the many arguments that I think I have now tried to balance and list here, so just look at where it has happened lately. What has been the result? Hasn't it caused any trouble? If it does not, it is one thing, and if it does, we must of course consider whether, as politicians, we do not care about it or whether we will consider it again. I am not saying that this should lead to us having a special attitude on it. I just think we should get everything out of here. Because it can have safety implications, and it is not certain that there has been anything special in Norway and the Netherlands, and then we have to look at it. That is just what we are asking for, that is to say, to be allowed to look at it a few months in relation to an over 150-year-old law. I don't think it's so slanderous.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141702	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141704	The Minister refers several times to the report of the Criminal Code Council. One of the things that is in that report is a clear statement that burning sacred writings is punishable under the blasphemy clause. It's something you can be judged for. Now we have a case there. At the same time, however, the Criminal Code Council in no way mentions in their report that a Bible was actually burned off under a television newspaper in 1997. At that time, no action was brought. So the Criminal Court says that burning sacred writings should lead to a punishment according to the blasphemy clause. But that is actually not what has happened. What is the Minister's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141756	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141757	I'm dealing with the fact that right now we have a case. There's been an indictment, based on the fact that one has been standing in, was it a barbecue bar?, and has burned off a Koran and filmed it and posted it online, and then it has been published. It's not like you can't get rid of a Koran in this country. You have to get rid of all the Korans you want, you have to do with them, almost what you want. But according to the law, you can't film it and put it out like it's been done. That is something that the courts must take care of. I'm not gonna go in and judge the case. It's not for me. I think it was incredibly stupid to do and unnecessary to do. The discussion is, of course, whether it is illegal, and that is the debate we are having here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141837	Mrs. Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141839	Well, I understand from the Minister for Justice's statement that the government needs to gain time. I remember that situation when you sit several parties in a government and sometimes there are different opinions, sometimes there are also within a party. I can therefore see that this is what this is all about, both when you want to explain a number of things and when you also mention the safety argument. Therefore, I just have to ask: is there really so much more to dig around in? When we examined that paragraph a few years ago in 2015, we were told that the only thing it really prevented or banned was burning and perhaps also peeing on sacred books. Is it true that this is what the paragraph limits, and nothing else?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141929	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425141931	I'm not a legal expert. What we are going to examine in this way is not what the paragraph thus covers today. What we have asked to be allowed to investigate is, of course, what the consequence was in the Netherlands and Norway, which has just lifted it. What kind of debate has it had? We're actually taking this very seriously. There is, of course, the answer to a question before today's debate on security, and it may well have a safety impact on Denmark. And then I say, you just have to know that. But it has nothing to do with whether you should say yes or no to it. But we have to take this into account when we weigh it all in our scales, which is why we want the whole palette of arguments examined. And that is why we would like to take a look at the debate from Norway and the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142017	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142019	Then I just want to hear the Minister for Justice's opinion on this quote: We should not deposit our decisions and freedom of action into the hands of extremists who are constantly offended, says Mr. Naser Khader two weeks ago, I think. I guess this has to be about the discussion that the Minister of Justice is raising right now. It's not a recital that the Minister of Justice shares?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142040	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142041	I haven't said anything about that at all. I have said that the government wants and will also look at the consequences in the Netherlands and Norway. They'll come for a day. Naser Khader is an incredibly wise and knowledgeable person. He's made a statement here. Now we are looking into it and I would just like to say that we have had the paragraph for over 150 years. I wonder if we can wait a few months for the last investigations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142109	We just have to remember to say, sir. I would like to say this to both the rapporteur and the Minister. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142117	In the Enhedslisten, we have the feeling that we have to protect people in law rather than gods, as is actually done with the blasphemy clause. Personally, I think it is a deeply disrespectful act to stand and burn off a Koran. I see no reason why we should do so, and I see no point in wanting to insult a large group of people in our country by burning off a Koran. I think that is disrespectful, and I think that is a wrong way of expressing its views. But that does not change the fact that it is something strange that we have some old legislation that makes it strictly illegal to insult gods. After all, if it is up to us, we should make legislation that protects people and not gods or sacred writings. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister for Justice: is it to be understood that the government's main argument for postponing a discussion on this until after the summer break is the security argument, as the Minister for Justice put it today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142230	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142232	It's not. If I've put it that way, it wasn't my intention. We would like to see everything clarified, also what discussion they had in the Netherlands and Norway up to the change and what has happened afterwards. I would also like to remind you of what I said in my speech, because of course I think so. It is the clear position of the government that if we did not have the blasphemy clause, we should not have it either. So nobody imagines that we would introduce it if we did not have it. Then, of course, you look at the implications of abolishing it, and then you weigh for and against. We just want to fill out the last colors in the palette with the last part of the survey.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142317	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142319	Is it to be understood that when the government gathers some experience and information about how the situation has been handled in the Netherlands and Norway, and if, on that basis, you have gained some experience that says that it can be handled in a sensible way, and when you have perhaps got some tools from colleagues in the Netherlands and Norway to deal with such a situation, then if something comes home in that direction, then the minister will have moved closer towards the fact that we can sort of abolish this paragraph?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142352	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142353	I think that in my speech I tried to be quite nuanced and, as such, was quite accommodating to this proposal. The government, when we have the result of it, will discuss with itself what this gives rise to and then the government will then express its position.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142416	Then we move on in the rapporteur's line. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142427	With this bill, the proposers want to repeal section 140 of the Penal Code on blasphemy. This is a debate we have had many times before. I believe that this is the fourth or fifth time that I, as the Social Democrat rapporteur, represent our views in the debate, and thus also said that it is a proposal on which we in the Socialist Group have not changed our views. We cannot support it. We believe that there should be a bottom plug for how much you can offend other people. That's why we have the racism paragraph. That's why we have the blasphemy clause. Just two years ago, the Criminal Code Council came up with a legal review of the blasphemy clause, and let me say here that it is extremely rare that the provision has been applied at all. But the conclusion of the Criminal Law Council, which is, I believe, the highest lawyers in the country, is very clear. In its opinion, the Criminal Code Council points out that the blasphemy ban does not prevent sharp criticism of religions and religious dogmas. And you have to look very little at the debate in Denmark to see that there is even wide-ranging religious criticism and debate in this country. Furthermore, the Criminal Code Council states that if one chooses to abolish the ban, it will mean that there will be public burnings of sacred books such as the Bible or the Koran, which the authorities will not be able to take action against. So what we are discussing here today, what remains, is: should we not or should we not legally be able to burn sacred writings? Because that is what the blasphemy provision limits. In the Social Democratic Party, our position is clear. We must be a free society where there is room for criticism of religions, including harsh criticism, and that is what it is today, and I hope that this will be the case in the future. Religious criticism is a strong and widespread life in society. So we in the Social Democratic Party find it very difficult to see what it is that gives our society the power to burn sacred writings. I must also ask the question: Does it make our society stronger that we can burn sacred writings? Does that make the debate any better? Does that make our democracy better? Does this make our unity in Denmark better? We in the Social Democratic Party do not believe that it does. That is why we cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142720	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142726	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. After all, I have been interested in what happened this weekend with the presentation of the new Social Democratic programme, because I thought that now there really was an opportunity to change some of what one might think was awkward, and then I thought it was good to read the following: "In Denmark everyone must live according to the rules of democracy and respect our values of freedom. Religious and patriarchal standards must never be above law and justice. It's from the new program. I would like to hear how this is in keeping with the attitude of the Social Democrats in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142759	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142800	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has probably not followed so much that he has heard the speaker of the President of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, for there she addressed precisely the part which concerns parallel societies and radicalisation, against which we in the Social Democrats want protection. Therefore, we do not think that anyone should live by being subject to religious dogmas. Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, actually spent quite a long time addressing that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142829	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142831	But in this case, it seems as if we are detaching ourselves from what was actually the new political compass for Social Democracy, because it is quite clear in the programme that rules, laws and worldly things must be above the protection of religion, and now we are saying exactly the opposite in the Parliamentary Chamber. I think that's too bad. Is that really the socialist line?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142855	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142857	Now Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen showed himself in the series of debaters who want to define what social democracy policy should contain. That paragraph, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen refers to, is in the part of the programme that is about improved integration, and it is precisely about the fact that we do not want parallel societies. However, the Socialist position on this issue, which is about whether to be able to violate other people by burning their religious writings, is very clear: we do not see what that contributes, and therefore we think that the blasphemy clause should be retained.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142935	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425142939	Thank you. I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur whether it would be better to burn the knapsack off, because in 2012 DF put out a lot of fun in this debate, as well as a proposal that it should be forbidden to burn the knapsack off, and there said then Social Democratic Minister of Justice, Morten Bødskov: "We in Denmark stress that there is a great deal of freedom of expression. In a democratic society such as the Danish one, one must be free to express oneself critically about the country. The Danish legislature should therefore not, in the view of the government, criminalise statements of opinion..... etc. etc. A very good answer, with which I fully agree, but how is it different from the blasphemy clause? Does the rapporteur think that it is a good thing that we should then burn our nesting bells?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143029	I also do not see why we should burn down the blooms, but we in the Social Democratic Party believe that there is a difference between a flag and a religion and a race, and that is why we insist that the blasphemy clause and the racism clause should be maintained. In this context, I must also say that I think it is rather strange to hear some of the parties that are standing and wishing to see the blasphemy clause abolished today, because some of the same parties want to maintain the racism clause at all costs. The same argument could be used there, so I think it is a rather strange debate to drag flags into this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143106	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143108	No, the same argument cannot be used at all, because these are two different things, and I think the rapporteur knows that too. The racism clause is about the individual or individual as a member of a group, whereas the blasphemy paragraph is about protecting ideas, thought sets, what some have decided to be their religion. So one is ideas, and the other is people, so it's not at all the same, plus the argument we keep hearing about burning off the Koran. In most cases this would not be possible at all because of the order order. So you can't just burn the Koran off in the middle of City Hall Square.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143143	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143145	I do not agree with that argument, because for some religion is so much a part of themselves, so one has to acknowledge that they feel offended when their sacred writing is burned off, on equal terms with their skin colour or ethnic origin being hetzed. I must return again to the question I started with. Why should religious writings be burned off? What does that contribute? Does that make our society better? Does that make our debate any better? Does that make our unity better? We do not think so in the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143219	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143223	Maybe it's really the reverse story. The fact that it is forbidden, the fact that it is punishable, is an incentive for some to do so, because it is just as it is, that the provocation then remains. But I would really like to say in relation to the history of the Social Democratic Party... it may well be that I'm going to go a little far back... that Louis Pio's cousin Harald Brix in 1877 received four years of custody, 21 months in prison and 1,500 DKK. in fines for majesty insult, blasphemy, call for revolution and defamation. So it was all that came in here in a single package, but it wasn't that he burned books off. It was because he wrote some critical writings in a journal called Raven then, and he was one of, as I see it, the founders of both the workers' movement, perhaps also to a certain extent of Social Democracy, and at that time it was a fundamental part of the social democratic DNA.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143330	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143332	I can hear that lobby organisations have visited the Enhedslisten and contributed with a historical review. We have received it ourselves. Even then, the Social Democratic Party was in favour of maintaining the blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143343	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143350	So let's try another example. When, in 1924, Minister of Justice K. K. Steincke made his proposal for a new penal code, he did not have the blasphemy clause with him, and it was only after a Left Minister of Justice came to a few years after it actually came in again. So again, what is really the DNA of social democracy on this issue? Perhaps I can also go further until 1973, when there was also a Social Democratic Minister for Justice who also...
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143423	There is no possibility of doing the historical review here on short remarks. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143425	I would say that it is interesting then that Enhedslisten can read exactly literally the examples that the lobby organisation Justitia has pointed to verbatim. Even then, Social Democracy was in favour of the blasphemy clause, and I am a little surprised that Enhedslisten is so easily influenced by former CEPOS people with this kind of lobbyingism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143450	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143453	The latter is because there is a group of freedom parties in this Parliament, which also goes across what is left-right in this Parliament. However, since the Liberal Alliance entered the government, these freedom parties have been somewhat shattered, but we still exist and, fortunately, have a large number of things that we agree on across other disagreements. But what I really want to ask Mrs Trine Bramsen is: if the blasphemy clause did not exist today, would the Social Democrats introduce it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143525	In any case, we would still have the view in the Social Democratic Party that there is no reason for offending other people unnecessarily. We would still find it extremely strange why sacred writings should be burned off, and we would still not think that it contributes anything good to our debate. Now Mr. Rune Lund's party colleague before that it is precisely because it is forbidden that some people then have the urge to burn. That's how you could argue. Then one should argue in the same way with the racism clause, that is, just because there is a racism clause, so there are some who want to gloat and mock and insult other people. So we don't see why we should do that. We do not see that we will have a better society by it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143612	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143614	I also think it is deeply disrespectful to burn off a Koran, but the question I asked was: if the blasphemy clause did not exist today, would the Social Democrats vote for its introduction? To that question, I can say very clearly: No, the Enhedslisten would not. What would the Social Democratic Party say?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143630	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143632	Well, I'm gonna deal with what it's like today. There we have a blasphemy clause, and that is what we are discussing here now, and the Social Democrats do not want to abolish it. What we could theoretically have had from discussions if it had not existed, I think may be a little distant from the issue here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143648	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143651	It's a funny discussion that kind of goes a little cross-cutting. What's an offense? Well, I don't know if I think it's more insulting to burn the Koran than it is to say that people who use clubs can go home to Hulabulaland, that is, where you do it, because you don't do that here in Denmark. So now I am trying to refer to something that the rapporteur himself said earlier, namely that it is extremely subjective, what is offensive and what is not offensive. But what I really wanted to ask was: what does the rapporteur say when only five EU countries have a blasphemy clause? Does this mean that the other EU countries do not respect the different religions of their citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143736	So, I have to say, and this sounds a little harsh, to Mrs Zenia Stampe: if she would like to quote me or, for that matter, others, then I have a very clear expectation that she is doing it correctly. Starting to make claims about the quotes of others simply does not contribute to anything good in this debate. So just the call to Mrs Zenia Stampe: Mrs Zenia Stampe also has a responsibility for us to keep a proper tone in the debate and especially when you go out into the media and declare that you are in favour of it. In Denmark, we have a Danish legislation that is what I am aiming for. What you have in other countries, they have to measure up to. In the social democracy we really cannot see what it is, it contributes to burning sacred writings, and that is why we stand at the goal of the blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143822	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143824	Well, I'd like to find the quote, then we can take it after. It was also just to illustrate that it is extremely subjective. I mean, everyone knows my position in this debate too, but I feel like I want to defend living people and their reputation and reputation, but I am not defending a book and some paper. It may be that it affects some people's feelings, but it does not affect the image of them, and that is what I think there is the difference between the racism clause and the blasphemy clause. The reason why I do not see the comparison is that with the racism clause we are trying to defend people against a grievance that can create a wrong picture of those in the public mind who can lead to persecution. It is something quite different from the blasphemy paragraph where we may defend some people's feelings, but not the public image of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143911	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143913	I think that Mrs Zenia Stampe must recognise that in a democracy one can have different views on things, and in this context the Social Democrats therefore see things differently than Mrs Zenia Stampe does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143924	We are grateful to Mrs Trine Bramsen for the fact that there are no more brief remarks and that Mr Bramsen has moved on in the rapporteur's line. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425143937	First of all, a very great thank you to the Enhedslisten for presenting this proposal for the abolition of the blasphemy clause. I think it is a good thing and it is sensible that Parliament should have the opportunity to take this debate again. In the Danish People's Party we hope that the debate will end in a different way than it has in recent times, that is to say that we can end up abolishing the blasphemy clause. That is our very clear objective, which is why I can also begin by telling you that we support the proposal. We are in favour of abolishing the paragraph, which we see as a crazy restriction on freedom of expression and free debate. In Denmark we must be allowed to discuss and debate and also be able to go very far in the debate. That is the way to have a free political debate. It may be comfortable, or it may be the opposite, but that is how it should be. If we are to follow the principle of equality, there is no objective argument that we should retain a paragraph which so much protects religious beliefs but does not provide equivalent protection for secular perceptions of life. I find that quite simply problematic. It is also worth noting that in recent years the countries around us have abolished their response to the blasphemy clause. In the last 5 to 6 years alone, Holland, Iceland and Norway have abolished theirs. So it is not because Denmark will in any way move alone in the world if we go that way. I also regard Holland, Iceland and Norway as very comparable countries with Denmark. That is why I see no reason why we should take a long time to gain experience from countries where things work quite well. It is also worth noting that in the European Union only five countries have maintained their blasphemy clause. If you look a little beyond the EU border, you will also find that it is Erdogan's Turkey and Putin's Russia that have chosen to maintain theirs. I think that's a boring category to come in. It is also worth noting that 18 out of 20 countries in the Middle East and North Africa have chosen to keep this again, I think, a very, very unpleasant company for a free democracy like Denmark to be in. If one is to follow one of the arguments to preserve the blasphemy clause, it is of course the desire that this should be used as a tool to avoid unrest, which could arise in response to blasphemy. I think that the story today shows something quite different. Because today we are hearing about this type of case first and foremost when the prosecution decides on a rare occasion to take action on a case. Otherwise, we'd never have heard of this type of case. So, as the rules are today, if you have to follow the original argument, they do, in principle, more harm than good. Because if you had to buy the premise that some might feel offended, having this set of rules means an enormous exposure to the cases, is the same as a larger group of people who could then feel offended. So the paragraph is kind of a problem for itself, if you can put it that way. Then there is the whole argument of security, that is, that Denmark should put itself in a dangerous position by abolishing this, because some with ugly intentions towards our free democracy might want to harm us for that reason. I have to say, I give nothing for that argument. The laws of Denmark are adopted in the Danish Parliament, which the voters put together. But the Danish Parliament does not conform to what crazy people in the world may want or do or threaten with. We're the ones who make the rules in this country, and we don't accept, do not respond to threats. Once again, before I conclude, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten for putting this forward. In the remarks and that may be, if I have to find a hair in the soup, one spends a very large part of the space on that, yes, shame or tribute to the racism clause, 266 B. I just want to say for the record that we have not changed our position on § 266 B, although we support this proposal. I expect that we can come up with some text for the proposal during the committee's work in the Committee on Legal Affairs, so it is very clear that when the Danish People's Party votes in favour of this proposal, because that is what we are doing, it does not mean, of course, that we are giving up the fight to get rid of the deeply unfair and undemocratic paragraph of racism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144433	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144437	Thank you. I have some questions. In relation to what we are discussing today, we agree perhaps for various reasons, but we agree on the objective. However, I would like to know whether the rapporteur can tell us a little about the reasons why a brook should not be burned off. I mean, I don't think it's funny to see the keel get burned off either. But should it not be the same arguments that apply to a country where freedom of expression should be the broadest possible use, even burning bread should be allowed, just as we should be able to say what we want, about religion and people's gods or regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144521	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144522	I am glad that the questioner thinks it is stupid to burn off the brewing bells. I think so, too. I also think it would be stupid to burn off Korans or Bibles. But I couldn't dream of banning it. When the Dansk Folkeparti took up the matter of the formbrog and the burning of the formbrog, it was seen in the light of the fact that it, I know at least, is forbidden to burn off the flags of all other countries in Denmark. The only flag that was allowed to be burned off was a brook. So I think we should look at those rules again. If nothing else, it could be fine if there was some equality, so that the same rules that apply to our flags could also apply to all other flags.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144559	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144601	When it comes to all the other flags in the world, it is because the flag of most countries is a symbol of the country. When we say that we want to have a distinct degree of freedom of expression, it can of course only apply to our own flag, anything else would be incredibly insulting to other countries. This could at least be interpreted as the practice which will also be the expression of such ordinary diplomatic relations between countries. I just think it's inconsistent, and that's what I wanted to point out. But then I want to hear whether the Danish People's Party's position on the blasphemy paragraph also covers Jens Jørgen Thorsen's Jesus film, where it ended up with a letter bomb being sent to a film or department director and also to Birkerød Station, where there was a picture with a penis-rending Jesus.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144646	Then it is the rapporteur to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144648	Thank you for the question in round two. For me, this is not limited to the Koran; you can take the Bible with you. There are religions right before the law. That's gotta be it. The fact that I could never burn either a Bible or the Koran is another matter. I think that would be foolish. But it should not be the case that everything I find foolish must be banned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144717	Thank you, sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen and goes on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. And he comes with the right papers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425144747	Thank you. Learned from the experience of others, I know that you have to bring up the right case, otherwise it will all sound a little fake. The Enhedslisten has today favoured the Folketing with the consideration of an extremely difficult subject. It is difficult to have square and unambiguous answers, at least for me. We in the Left are endowed with the grace of doubt, and we can see the matter from both sides; let me say it plainly. The citation from the penal code, and it is a provision that has been in force for 151 years, is that it is a criminal offence to ridicule or insult something in this country legally existing religions, somebody's beliefs or worship. The interest in protection is not the Lord, as some have mentioned, but it is the religious feeling that it says. We in the Left respect the concerns that many Danes have about freedom of expression, because there is no doubt that the provision is a restriction on freedom of expression and we must have as few restrictions on freedom of expression as possible. We should not close our eyes to large organisations such as the United Nations, the European Commission and the Institute for Human Rights, etc. etc. As far as restricting freedom of expression is concerned, I have to point out, for the sake of good order, that we have restrictions on freedom of expression in Denmark. It's not like this is the only one. The Penal Code then contains several exceptions I actually think 10-12 pieces ■ including the racism clause and the libel clause, which are the very clear exceptions. So freedom of expression already has many limitations. Paragraph 140 of the Criminal Code is a difficult subject, and so we also asked the Criminal Code Council to look at the provision a few years ago. The report submitted gave a thorough examination, but it did not provide a clear explanation of the problem. A number of good arguments and a number of good arguments were summarised against. Many of these comments we would like to see deepened and, above all, compared with the legal status of other statements in Denmark and abroad. Is the fact that only two judgments of 151 years have been passed which have led to a conviction an expression that the provision is completely superfluous, or is it rather an expression of the fact that the existence of the provision has had its effect and must therefore be maintained? You can argue for that from here to Christmas Eve, but I don't think anyone's getting smarter. How, then, will the repeal of the provision be seen around, when it is at the same time that we have just curtailed freedom of expression for hate preachers? To what extent does the abolition of the provision lead to a further unnecessary diversion of the debate, in other words beyond the appalling level regularly observed on social media? And what has actually happened in Norway and in the Netherlands in that relation? One might suggest that public order and peace were seen in the morning of time as what was to be protected, and for the Left it is also essential to have a closer look at what provisions, if any, will apply to the protection of order and peace in this country after the possible abolition. Here too, a comparison with other countries may be relevant: what do they have in the other countries instead of, or, if you may say so, free play in this area? We need a fully informed basis, but there will be no years of it, and I have noticed the Minister for Justice's statement that we are talking about months. So we are not talking about the announcement of the Freedom of Freedom Commission being completed first. That could take a very long time. However, this is an important issue and we will therefore have the complete basis. That is why we call on the government to gain experience from other countries, as has already been explained by the Minister of Justice, namely from the other countries that have abolished the criminalisation of blasphemy, when the government is now to make its final decision in parallel with the work of the Freedom Commission. So, on this basis, the Left cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145221	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145227	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would just like to ask you about the lessons to be learned from Norway, Holland and Iceland. I will almost predict that you will find that everything is normal and that it is calm and peaceful. I think every country is a popular tourist destination. I cannot stand here and think of something that should be bad or changed in the three countries. I consider all three of them to be comparable with Denmark and with close relations and much trade, tourism, the whole quaint. But okay, if you could now see that there was some change or some experience we could draw on, would the Left completely put its decision-making power into the work that needs to be done now, and then just say, if it is nice and calm and peaceful, as I have the impression there is: well then that is fine, then we are abolishing this paragraph? And what else would be the point of getting this work started?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145325	It almost sounds like we can only trust that Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen like is around in all countries to guarantee that there is peace and quiet etc. We don't. We'd like one, if I may say so, official investigation. And when asked whether we are going to accept the result in advance, I have to say that it is not just a question of whether there has been trouble, whether there has been a Koran burning, or whether someone has urinated on a car or something like that. It is also a study of what is in the various countries of any rules that may enter into force once the blasphemy clause has been abolished. We have to compare this with whether there are similar rules in Denmark and whether there is a need for rules in this direction. Because we should not just abolish the paragraph into thin air, if I may say so, at the risk of Koran burns and Bible burns down here in the palace square.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145416	Then I would like to ask something else, and it is precisely these specific cases that are mentioned. I have the impression that the fact that we have a blasphemy clause actually today contributes to the fact that when there is some case that the prosecution takes up and charges are being made and so on, it is being exposed in the media. So if you buy the whole premise that there should be victims of such an offence, I do not buy the argument from the supporters of the blasphemy clause that there should be victims, is not the blasphemy clause equal to the fact that there will be many more of these victims, precisely because the cases will be so exposed as they will be when they hit the media?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145454	I'm seriously afraid of • and it's not a criticism • that I just didn't really understand the question. But if it was a question of who is really worthy of protection in this context, yes, then the comments to the original law state that it is the religious feeling. And I also interpret this as the people who are religious, who will feel as victims and who will feel affected by the disadvantages of a possible relaxation of the blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145523	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145526	I would like to ask a question which has also been put to the other rapporteurs. The Minister of Justice said that if this law were not there, then the government would not propose to introduce it either. And so I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Left: let us assume that there was a majority in this House who abolished the blasphemy clause, would the Left have it on its legislative programme that it should be reinstated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145601	That's a hypothetical question. We usually take the events as they come and when we stand in them. But so, as far as I could hear, the question was whether, if it were abolished, we would put forward a proposal that it should be reinstated. No, I don't think so. I don't think so. However, as I said, this is a hypothetical question and I cannot comment on it. It's hard to predict, especially about the future, as Storm P. said.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145622	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145625	No, the rapporteur does not think so. However, when it comes to the argument which the rapporteur himself makes about wanting to preserve the paragraph, I would perhaps think that the rapporteur could use the same arguments in order to reinstate it. That is also why I would like to know whether the rapporteur would actually be able to take this kind of action, or perhaps some would say weird. But could the rapporteur or could the Left think of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145654	I have carried out many strange acts, and I do not know whether it will be included in them, as I said. However, the questioner is quite right that I have highlighted arguments both for and against abolishing the provision, and I started by saying that I have the grace of doubt. And then it is enough to be impaled rather hard to be asked whether the Left, if it were to be abolished today, would then come up with proposals for re-establishment tomorrow. I do not think that would be the case, let me put it that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145720	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments and we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425145736	Thank you for the floor, President. We are dealing with a paragraph on which it can be said that it is both extremely important and, as it were, very topical again. I believe, on behalf of the Liberal Alliance, that it is time to take a stand with a clause in the Danish Penal Code, which in many ways belongs to the past. The Liberal Alliance is in favour of abolishing the blasphemy clause, which we regard as a restriction of freedom of expression and an unreasonable and untimely special protection of religious sentiments. Freedom of expression should be as wide and wide as possible. One step on the way here is to get rid of the blasphemy clause. This does not mean that I personally think it is great to insult others, but it should not be forbidden to express criticism of religions just because some have become sad. To abolish the blasphemy clause is not the start of a pat-hunt of someone with a different skin color or of a different religious orientation than that of the majority. On the contrary, it would be to equate religious considerations with other beliefs that do not have their own paragraph in the penal code. We believe that the risk of mockery, mockery and ridicule is part of living in an open and democratic society, and that is a very small price that we would much rather pay. As a participant in the social debate and as a resident of a free country, you sometimes have to bear to feel too close or misunderstood, and arguments should be given instead of paragraphs. It now looks the best for a modern society. At one point I heard the argument for retention that the problem is not very big anyway. No, that is precisely why it is a good idea to abolish it. The Liberal Alliance does not want it now to be such a normal state that Bibles, Korans and other things are burned in the streets, nor do we believe that it will be the consequence of this amendment if it is adopted. I personally believe that it is stupid and unsavory to burn off Korans, as happened in North Jutland earlier this year, and that caused the prosecution to indict after the blasphemy clause. Book burning is generally unpleasant and brings memories of dark periods in Europe's history. Do I also believe that this should be illegal? No, in a free society there must be room to do and say things that I or others might think are stupid. There is the free debate which marks a strong democracy. Then there is the international perspective on this matter. Some would argue that Denmark is already in a vulnerable position because of the Mohammed drawings, and here almost 12 years after their exhibition in Jyllands-Posten they are not forgotten, that is true enough. I fully recognise that the terrorist threat to Europe is real and visible. Unfortunately, we have many concrete examples of this, but, because there are up to several buts in this case, we cannot allow the latent terrorist threat to guide the establishment of our criminal law and here quite specifically on how seriously we take the foundations of democracy, liberal freedoms. I cannot justify restricting freedom of expression for the sake of some religious feelings, because we should not risk insulting some people who, with religious arguments, would kidnap our freedom of expression and freedom of action. It doesn't make sense. We must not give extremists a de facto right of veto over what has to be said in Denmark. In recent years, several European countries have abolished their version of the blasphemy clause in the wake of terrorist attacks. In Norway, the debate has been lively for a long time, just as it has in Denmark, and it was finally decided to abolish the blasphemy clause with a concrete reference to stand the burden and burst on freedom of expression and the right to religious criticism after the attack on Charlie Hebdo in Paris. By retaining the blasphemy clause in Denmark we are in uncommonly bad company with e.g. Saudi Arabia, where freedom of expression, as you know, is not very high on the list of values. We are even at risk of legitimising the maintenance of the persecution of religious critics, because if a free and democratic country like Denmark criminalises blasphemy, it must be both free and democratic. In other words, it is a debate with a great many perspectives and angles. We in the Liberal Alliance are well aware of that. I would like to acknowledge that the Enhedslisten has raised the debate. We think it's really important. Let me conclude by saying that in the Liberal Alliance we want to do so, I do not think there is any doubt that we would like to be involved in abolishing the blasphemy clause. We await and respect the process outlined by the Minister in his speech and we will continue to fight wherever we can to abolish this paragraph.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150227	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150230	I would like to start by thanking Mrs Christina Egelund. I would also like to ask a question, because the rapporteur refers to the Justice Minister's Freedom of Movement Commission: does Mrs Christina Egelund think that there is something missing in order for a decision to be taken on this point? Does the rapporteur lack any information, any knowledge, any insight? After all, the Minister of Justice is suggesting that something needs to be investigated, so we are absolutely sure. And then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is of the opinion as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150324	I did not refer to the Freedom of expression commission, and what the Minister said now I am not going to interpret the Minister's words, but as I heard at least, and the Minister is smiling, so I think we agree is that it is not the government's intention to leave the issue of the blasphemy clause as part of the Freedom of expression commission. What the Minister said was that there is a need in the government to study the experience with other countries, in other words quite concrete experience of what has happened in the Netherlands, what has happened in Norway. We have no doubt in the Liberal Alliance, and I think that is clear from my speech. I think that the aspects are well-lit and our position is quite clear. But we are part of a government college, and I fully respect the fact that others need to clarify some other things. I do not want to be the one who stands in the way of getting more knowledge about it, but my own position and that of the Liberal Alliance is that the blasphemy clause should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150416	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150417	Thank you. The question is important when it comes to assessing whether a majority can actually already be established, and I hear the last answer here in the sense that the Liberal Alliance has just pawned their vote with the Minister for Justice until that study is ready. I really think that is a bit boring, because it is actually the case that perhaps there would have been a chance that we could now go right away to adopt this law here in May.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150456	The rapporteur himself says that there are rumours that there may be a majority in favour of this. I think we have all seen the von hearing case about who votes what and what the one, the other and the third party decide. What I can say at first reading as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance is that we believe that the blasphemy clause should be abolished, and then we are completely loyal to the process outlined by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150519	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150520	Thank you. After all, I myself have tried to be part of a party that has been in government and I am well aware of the considerations that may be involved in this. But when the rapporteur says so clearly that it is the policy of the Liberal Alliance that the blasphemy clause should be abolished, I do not think any of us are in any doubt about that and if it turns out that the mandates of the Liberal Alliance are the decisive ones and that the bill ends up being voted down because no majority is achieved because the Liberal Alliance does not vote in favour, will the rapporteur say otherwise? That is to say, when this study has been carried out, and if it turns out that there is not necessarily any objection to such abolition on the basis of experience from other countries, and this matter comes up again in the Danish Parliament, will the Liberal Alliance vote in favour only in the autumn season? I hope the rapporteur understands my question. It's about process.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150615	Yes, I think I understood what kind of process Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen described, namely whether there is a potential majority in the Folketing in the first place in order to abolish the blasphemy clause. Whether it is dependent or independent of the mandates of the Liberal Alliance is not quite clear to me, to be perfectly honest. It is not that I am not going to answer it, but it is not quite clear to me whether that majority is there or not. What we can count on in relation to the position of the Liberal Alliance in this matter is, on the one hand, that our position is quite clear and, on the other hand, that we respect the fact that the government needs to clarify very concrete experiences from some of our closestly related countries, Norway and the Netherlands, which have just abolished the blasphemy clause. And then it would be natural, when the results of these studies are available, to take it up again, of course. Once again, we want to know exactly where the Liberal Alliance is: among those who believe that the paragraph should be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150716	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150718	Thank you. I just want to understand it quite correctly, because it is true that Holland and Norway reacted to the Charlie Hebdo attack by abolishing the paragraph, whereas some of the arguments we heard today are that this type of attack must be the reason why it should not be abolished. But the position of the Liberal Alliance is clear. If, then, there has been this process and we have not completed the abolition in this round because the Liberal Alliance is voting against it, and it was raised again, would the Liberal Alliance not vote in favour of the bill under any circumstances, because you are part of a government where two other parties do not want it? It's just to get it right. Otherwise, there is no reason to keep bringing the matter up in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150805	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150806	However, the rapporteur presents a scenario which involves two hypotheses: 1 that this bill does not find a majority; 2 that at some point there is a result of this study, which the Minister of Justice outlined, which shows a particular result, and how would we find ourselves in Parliament in this situation? I think I would just like to appeal to the patience of the rapporteur and say that we shall have to see it then. But our position is clear, and somewhere I also feel that we are a government college. I believe that everyone who has followed politics, and I know that the questioner does, knows exactly where the Liberal Alliance is and that there are other parties who may have different views. That is the political process. We respect that, and we work within the framework of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150847	Then it's mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150849	I understand the position of the Liberal Alliance in this matter, and we are in agreement on the position. I would just like to ask something about the study launched by the government: is the rapporteur aware that there should have been problems in the three countries mentioned in connection with the abolition of the blasphemy clause?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150909	That was a nice concrete question. No, I haven't. I am not aware that there should have been problems either in one country or another, in the wake of the abolition of the blasphemy clause, but I respect the fact that there is a need in the government to have it examined, so one is absolutely certain that there is nothing one has forgotten to have examined. If I had ruled alone, I probably would have thought that if there had been major problems, we would probably have heard of them, but I have complete respect for the fact that others need to have it fully uncovered.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150941	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425150943	Thank you, too, for the clear, honest answer, which I think was a sensible answer, but I suppose that leaves us with two options. So when the threats that affect our Western free democracies come in, we either have the opportunity to stand up and say: we will not tolerate that; it is not terrorists in other countries who want us to have the bad thing to dictate, which has to swing the tact, we will do that ourselves, or we have the opportunity to say: well, then we should be careful and cover ourselves in. That is where I think it would be appropriate if the rapporteur were to say where the Liberal Alliance itself is heading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151023	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151024	It is quite clear, and I hope that this is also evident from my speech, otherwise it was really bad, because it says here at least: we do not believe that we should de facto give extremists who do not like freedom of expression or who want to safeguard some particular religious feelings, right of veto over what has to be said and expressed in Denmark. My impression is also that, on the basis of the rapporteur's own speech, which, incidentally, I think was an excellent speech, we have here a point where there is a complete synopsis between the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151055	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151056	Now it will be exciting what the Alternative's rapporteur will say when it becomes the alternative's turn to give a rapporteur's speech on this point. For as it is right now, electoral mathematics says that if the alternative ends up voting in favour of this resolution, then there will be a majority if the Liberal Alliance votes in favour of the motion. Now I would like to raise a slightly hypothetical question, but one which is relatively precise: how will the rapporteur feel about the Liberal Alliance being the party which is in the way of implementing it here if the Liberal Alliance ends up voting against it here while the alternative had to choose to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151139-2	I think it is quite obvious that we in the Liberal Alliance do not want to be particularly comfortable with that. I won't even try to explain it away or talk about it in black. It is clear that freedom of expression is something that is very valuable to the Liberal Alliance. After all, the questioner spoke in her question, and I think that is what Mrs Trine Bramsen mentioned, namely that the Liberal Alliance is to count on one of the parties guarding freedom in this country, suggesting, as if it were a position which had an expiry date called the day the Liberal Alliance was in government. So now there is a government party which is in favour of abolishing the blasphemy clause, so I can just say that the questioner is completely wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151222	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151224	We also appreciate from the Enhedslisten that the Liberal Alliance is doing so, but we would nevertheless like to see progress made in the situation in which this motion for a resolution may receive a majority vote. If it were to be the Liberal Alliance, which, by pressing the red buttons, prevented it from being adopted, it would be a pity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151248	Then the questioner will have to arm himself with patience. I think it is a pity every day that we cannot just find 90 mandates to implement the policy of the Liberal Alliance. I hope that the questioner feels the same way on behalf of his own party, but that is the way the people rule. I can assure the questioner that the Liberal Alliance is fighting day and night for some of the freedom agendas that I know we have in common with the Enhedslisten. A good example of this is, for example, that we in the government are working together to relax the public law, which is something we have had in common with the author's party. I hope the questioner appreciates that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151322	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. We move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151331	Thank you. It is true that the people's regime is, of course, the case that you have to count to 90 in order to adopt something that you are in favour of, but that you have to vote against your own policy is something else anyway. I can see why the Liberal Alliance's quabble in this situation. I would like to start with a small procedural comment, because the Minister is now saying that a study is being carried out and that experience has to be gained from the other countries. It's kind of sympathetic enough. We have known that this resolution could come for a while. There has been plenty of time to gain experience from the other countries. This could then be said to the authors of the motion for a resolution, so that if the authors had done so, they might have had the basis that more people are asking for today in order to be able to take that decision. So this is more of a procedural comment, since sometimes some stumbling threads are placed in order to clarify the proposals made by either the government or the typical opposition. Perhaps it might be an idea to use the time before the first reading to clarify those things. Now there is also a considerable amount of time; there is another treatment and there is a third treatment. So I would just like to make a suggestion to the authors of the motion that if I were the author of the motion, perhaps I would use the time wisely to catch up with some of what is being asked for. I'm not sure it'll take months. It is not a party contribution either for or against the Enhedslisten bill, and it is the case that the Liberal Alliance must also arm itself with patience, in relation to where the alternative stands, until Friday at 1 p.m. 16. And when I say that, it is because the process that has taken place in the Parliamentary Group of the Alternative is that there has been a great deal of discussion and debate and also disagreement among the Members of Parliament of the Alternative, in relation to whether we should vote for or against the Bill from the Enhedslisten. This has resulted in some rounds of debate, which eventually made us decide to collect two party posts • one of Jacob Mchangama from Justitia, I can never pronounce his last name, the other of Erik Bjergager, who is editor-in-chief of Kristeligt Dagblad. They presented every 15 minutes today, explaining why they think we should either preserve or abolish the paragraph. We have streamed all this live from our group meeting, and it is also on our facebook page. I can say to the Minister that if you want to make yourself aware of some quite intelligent, forward-looking party contributions, then you can find them on the alternative's facebook page. In the light of these speeches, we have asked the 11 000 Members of the Alternative to take a position on our behalf. That is to say, what the alternative chooses to vote at third reading in relation to this bill will be, as the members of the alternative decide, provided that 10% answer. But I can then reveal already that I am quite sure there is because we have received a lot of answers already. The results will not be available until Friday at 1 p.m. 16. So there we are wiser whether we vote for or against. Quite briefly, some of the arguments that we have had to turn for and against, and which have weighed a lot in our discussion, have been the one here with regard to the argument to preserve the paragraph that it is not really what there have been arguments about, so much about freedom of expression. It is not, of course, because we must not criticise religion in Denmark that we have a blasphemy clause. We have ample opportunity to criticize religion. The Social Democrat rapporteur mentioned something of the same. As such, it is not so much about the paragraph protecting gods; but it protects religious feelings when they are violated. It is not so much about attitudes, about criminalising attitudes when we have a blasphemy clause, but it is about criminalising acts that may be offensive to those who have religious feelings. It is also a question of protecting the calm in public spaces in relation to not inciting unrest, as when a man like us, for example. has seen it in North Jutland, which I personally also thought was a completely foolish act, goes out and burns off a Koran and puts it on Facebook. The blasphemy clause may be a form of protection of public order. Then there are the arguments for abolition, which also weighs heavily, namely the arguments in relation to the international community, which recommend that Denmark abolish the blasphemy clause. The United Nations is doing this, the European Union is doing it with reference to what we see in Iran, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, where we commit atrocities against its citizens, against the religious minorities with reference to their blasphemy clause, and moreover refers to Denmark and says that in Denmark they also have a blasphemy clause. As the Socialist rapporteur said, this has not so much to do with the national context in Denmark, but it matters in relation to our relationship and our position in the international community. Now I see my time is running out. I have more for and against arguments, but you can see them on this little video clip we have on our facebook page. As I said, it will be the members of the alternative who decide. That's why I'm neutral today in this position, and you have to wait till Friday at 9:00. 16 to see what we're voting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151846	So we wait in excitement. There was just a last minute comment from Mr. Bruno Jerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425151853	That is in relation to what Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier said. I think that some of the arguments against the abolition of the blasphemy clause, in other words some of the arguments used, tend to confuse two paragraphs, perhaps confusing discussions about blasphemy with racism. I think it is important, at least for the Enhedslisten, to try to keep the two parts separate. It is the case that the racism clause is a protection for people. In the blasphemy clause, the wording is: "Whoever publicly ridicules or reproaches something in this country legally existing religions' beliefs or worship is punished by a fine or imprisonment up to 4 months'. In other words, it is not intended for specific people, as the racism clause is. It is directed at the teaching or the god or the direction of faith. It may not be intended, but I hear a bit of a mix-up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425152001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425152003	I think there are two things in it. One is that it is not the gods as such that are protected in the blasphemy para graph, it is worship that is protected there is a difference. The second is, and this is some of what Erik Bjerager of Kristeligt Dagblad argued, that one thing is that it is called a blasphemy paragraph, something else is how it is used. It has a symbolic function in protecting acts that violate religious feelings. His argument was rather that it really is not so much about blasphemy, as one might have thought it did when the paragraph was created in the 1800s, or as it does in Saudi Arabia, Iran, etc., but it is also about protecting public order and security for the unrest. But of course it is a matter of interpretation in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425152052	Then we thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425152059	Thank you. After all, we had the blasphemy clause examined by the Criminal Law Council when we were in government ourselves in 2015, and their assessment was that it only prohibited the burning of sacred writings • The Koran, the Bible. It then became an argument for preserving the paragraph, partly because it was not considered to be a major interference in freedom of expression, partly because it had rarely been used, but also because it was concerned about the signal it would send and fear that it would have incalculable consequences. That is also the argument that I can understand is the heavyest thing in the government right now. In the meantime, something has happened. There has been a case in North Jutland with a man who has burned the Koran. I do not think anyone here can be in doubt about what I and my party think about it. It is, of course, deeply idiotic and disrespectful and, as such, irresponsible. At the same time, I and my party feel this way, and this is something we have discussed very much, both in the parliamentary group and in the national federations, that we simply cannot defend that in a modern, secular democracy we must punish a man for such a thing. That is why we support today's proposal. However, it is also quite honest that we voted, as we did, on a similar proposal two years ago. That is why we have changed our attitude, and that is partly because of this. this particular case, where it suddenly ends up in a courtroom, and suddenly you have to deal with whether you really think it is reasonable when the paragraph is put into practice. Then I would also like to draw a parallel to the Muhammad crisis. Because I do not think anyone is in any doubt as to what my position, and at least that of many in my party, was on the drawings. We also felt that they were idiotic and disrespectful and perhaps also to a degree irresponsible. That is why we were often criticized or even accused of wanting to restrict freedom of expression. But there we had exactly the same attitude as we had towards the blasphemy clause, namely that we were deeply critical of the drawings, but we did not mean under any circumstances that they should be banned or banned from drawing and making caricatures of religious figures. It is, in fact, the same view that we have here. There are, of course, plenty of expressions and actions which we think are disrespectful or stupid, but which we cannot, of course, allow ourselves in modern democracy to limit, because an important part of a democracy is freedom of expression. I would also like to say a tiny bit about the racism clause. Because it has also been mentioned up here. For me, there's a really big difference. One can, of course, discuss whether the blasphemy clause protects religion, because, as the Criminal Court also mentioned at the time, it is virtually only the burning of sacred writings, which it forbids and makes punishable. You can do all kinds of things and say all sorts of other insulting and insulting things about religion, without it being punishable and thank God for it. So the question is whether the blasphemy clause is a religious protection at all. It protects some books, and it protects some emotions. That is why I think you should not burn the Bible and the Koran, because it is disrespectful to those people who have many feelings in their religion. That's why I could never do it myself. I would also condemn it if I saw someone do it. But I do not think that we should ban it. There I think there's a difference to the racism paragraph. The most important argument for me in favour of the racism clause is to prevent people spreading lies, negative generalisations or hatred of people. It's a different thing to me than offending their feelings. Nor do I think you should offend people's feelings by burning off their sacred writings. But there is still a difference between violating some emotions and then spreading lies and negative generalisations about people who can have very violent consequences for them and the public's view of them. I think there is a very fundamental and very clear difference. That is why we are still in favour of the racism clause. But that is why we are also willing and ready and would very much like to support the abolition of the blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425152601	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425152618	Everywhere in the world, the right to freedom of expression and religious criticism is under pressure: Bloggers are sentenced to death in Iran, humanists are murdered by fundamentalists in Pakistan and Bangladesh, and in Saudi Arabia Badawi is imprisoned waiting for 950 lashes to criticise Islam. In Europe caricature artists are shot in Paris, and a debate about the blasphemy clause in Copenhagen ended deadly. And then the reaction of the Danish Government is that we cannot clearly and unequivocally declare the blasphemy clause an over chapter in Denmark. It sends out a completely wrong signal. This was also the message from the UN Special Reporteur on Freedom of Religion when he visited Denmark in 2016. He referred to the fact that at a meeting in Saudi Arabia the Pakistani delegate had referred to the Danish blasphemy clause as an expression of support for global support for the law against religious violations. The message from Amnesty International and other international NGOs is also that democratic countries such as Denmark indirectly legitimise the countries that use blasphemy clauses to suppress religious minorities, atheists and dissidents. We must show solidarity in Denmark with the victims of blasphemy clauses, not the states that enforce them. Today we are in the Enhedslisten, Radical, SF, perhaps the alternative, perhaps the Liberal Alliance together. The liberal, culturally radical and socialist heritage is marked by religious criticism and a rejection of religious, reactionary dogmas. As SF'eren Poul Dam said in the Folketing in a different context in 1971: It is not our state's job to prescribe certain opinions or deprive them of the right to have certain other opinions. Even the foolishest views, even the most harmful perceptions, have the right to exist, and there is a right to express them. It is a primitive, moralist way of thinking that we can combat what we want to combat by criminalising it. When a case was initiated against two heads of the DR, after Trille had presented the excellent song on television, on the high ground, Paul Hammerich wrote in Politiken: Freedom of speech also includes the freedom to mock, and the blasphemy clause indicated that people who profess a religious faith must be shielded and spared more than, for example, the Blasphemy paragraph. police officers, hippies and ministers, vegetarians, professional boxers and animal friends. That's pretty undemocratic. In the 1970s, Jens Jørgen Thorsen's Jesus film aroused wild resurrection and resulted in a demand from the Christian People's Party for an election. 140,000 signed, 4,000 demonstrated in the streets of Copenhagen, a strong condemnation from the pope himself, a Molotov attack on the ambassador's residence in Rome and a letter bomb sent directly home to the director of the Danish Film Institute followed. So we've had this discussion for many years. We can even boast of being the world's first country to ban censorship, albeit briefly, and we can thank Struensee for that. The debate has filled a great deal since the Muhammad crisis and the discussion centred on some key issues: whether we should take more account of religious feelings, what about coherence and what about national security. These are all relevant questions. I have personally changed my mind since the Muhammed crisis. My then views on tolerance and respect for religious minorities are, in fact, today disrespectful and condescending to the very same people. Everyone, regardless of religious beliefs or not, is a citizen of this country with the fundamental freedoms that rightfully belong. Ten years ago, I personally believed that the drawings were derogatory, divisive and unnecessary. They are still derogatory and divisive, but a free society must be able to accommodate this, because unfortunately history has clearly shown that they were not unnecessary. I don't want to offend my Muslim friends or any Muslim citizens in this country in general. When something you have precious is mocked, you get angry and sad, and that is understandable, but then you have to strike back with the word or pen. There is much more at stake, no newspapers dare to print the drawings anymore, and that is a sign of disease in a free society. We do not fight discrimination and prejudice against minorities by compromising on freedom of expression when extremists blackmail us. The Blasphemy paragraph has not prevented a sewer of attitudes in the corners of the Internet. Attitudes must be met by attitudes, not by prison sentences. We must not succumb, because freedom of expression is one of the finest and most fundamental freedoms we have. The only reason why we do not take even more care of it is that, after all, we still live in one of the most free and democratic countries in the world, and our imagination does not allow us to imagine a Denmark without it. But freedom of expression has been won through hard work, it has not fallen from the sky, and in many countries around the world activists, atheists and bloggers risk their lives and security for the right to criticize also to criticize religious feelings, gods and religion itself. SF supports Enhedslisten's motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425153140	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425153150	The Blasphemy paragraph is a relic of the past. The paragraph is a form of discrimination in which it is believed that the feelings of the believers outweigh those of the unbelievers, and that is a thing of the past. Furthermore, the fact that we have a blasphemy clause waters down our criticism of the states in which blasphemy is used to suppress different thinking and religious minorities. Some believe that we should preserve the paragraph in order not to be subjected to terrorism, but we should not deposit our freedom of action in the hands of terrorists. By the way, if you hand them a little finger, they take their whole hand. Until recently, the problem was perhaps more fundamental than practical. Fortunately, no one had been charged with blasphemy since the singer Trille was in 1971. The mushammed signers were released, the Bible burners in 1997 were released, but now the North Jutland Police have appealed to a North Jyde for blasphemy due to a Koran burning. I can't believe the prosecution's gonna have to spend time with a fool like that who's burned off a Koran. It's not because I want to encourage it, but don't spend time on such a fool. When the Criminal Law Council in 2015 made their report, they concluded that the blasphemy clause does not prevent harsh criticism of religion and religious dogmas, but even then we should have abolished it. For they further wrote that there would be a risk that the authorities could not take care of Bible burns if we did not have a blasphemy clause. That was an argument for preserving the paragraph. However, the conclusion should have been that the authorities do not need to spend resources on the burning of books. When we had the debate last time, I found it striking that many theologians rejected positive discrimination, such as the Secretary-General of the Lutheran Mission, Jens Ole Christensen. He said: " We shall not have the paragraph for God's sake or for the sake of the church. It's gonna be okay. What can speak against the paragraph is if it can be seen as a positive discrimination against religions, but it is not in any way my impression that it does. Nor should the paragraph stand in the way of religious criticism, but it does not. Basically, whether we have this paragraph or not is not decisive for the role of the church. So, the blasphemy clause is about us not wanting to offend others' feelings, but it is too weak if the answer to the fundamentalist who hates Denmark is that we want to forbid violating their feelings. Religious feelings have little protection, and we do not do the conversation about religion a service by wrapping up the holiness of religions. On the contrary, there are many good reasons for abolishing the paragraph. The Blasphemy clause belongs to the past, and that is a fundamental restriction on freedom of expression. I also think it is stupid to burn Korans off, but frankly, is that supposed to be illegal? Our blasphemy clause is not as rigid as those we see in non-democratic countries as some of the Muslim countries and in Russia, for example. But the problem is that our blasphemy clause legitimizes the blasphemy clauses of rogue states. We cannot ask them to change decisions where they punish religious minorities under a blasphemy clause when we have such a paragraph ourselves. This means that when we restrict freedom of expression, they come countries and measure with a ruler of rubber band and say that when Denmark has a blasphemy paragraph, they must also. Then it's globally accepted. This happened, for example, in Saudi Arabia in 2015, when the Danish blasphemy clause was mentioned as an example of global acceptance of laws against religious violation. The Think Tank Justitia points out several examples: In Iran, a 21-year-old was sentenced to death for insulting the Prophet in a text message. In Pakistan, a seventh - year - old Christian woman is on death row for blasphemy. A Mauritanian was sentenced to death after he criticised the government for abusing religion to justify slavery. In Russia, a blogger is arrested and forced into a mental examination because he has denied the existence of God. I understand that many people are afraid that if we repeal the blasphemy clause, we risk getting involved with the banana republics. I don't think that's gonna happen. But whatever the fanatics around the world think, they should certainly not restrict our freedom of action. In fact, only five EU countries have a real blasphemy clause, and we should not be part of that group. The Blasphemy clause belongs to the past, and the Conservative People's Party believes we should abolish it. The authorities don't need time for fools burning books, and God doesn't need a blasphemy clause.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425153734	There are no brief comments. So we move on to the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, Mr von der Vring. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425153745	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking you very much for the debate. I think it has been very good, and if you take the very many rapporteurs who have spoken in favour of the proposal, you can pretty much take all the words that they have said, put them in line and say that Enhedslisten thinks so too. Without repeating them all, I would say that this is the essence of this. The Blasphemy provision, as several have also said, is a relic of the past. That is a restriction on freedom of expression. One can say that it is unnecessary, it is certainly not fair in terms of freedom of expression, and it gives religions and religions and gods, if you like, an extra right, one can say a priority, and it is time to do something about it, and it has been a long time. It's not like this is something that Enhedslisten has come up with in this spring. It has always been Enhedslisten's policy, and of course you know it too. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the individual rapporteurs. Firstly, I would like to start with those who have clearly indicated that they will vote in favour of the proposal. Thank you to the Danish People's Party. I am glad that the Danish People's Party says so clearly that they will vote in favour. We have a disagreement with the Danish People's Party, and it was also marked by Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, in relation to the racism clause, because there we have a discrepan, but that does not change the fact that we are very pleased with the support of the Danish People's Party for this proposal. We would also like to thank the Radical Left very much for their very clear position, and Mrs Zenia Stampe also said that this was something that they in the Radical Left had changed their views on, and it is a good thing that there has been the political movement. I would also like to thank Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. It is also very nice that there has been that movement politically both on our wing and also politically across the middle of Danish politics. This is a matter, and you can also hear it from the speeches, where you have an approach on both sides, i.e. across the Danish Parliament. I would also like to take this opportunity, even though they are somewhat locked up in the Liberal Alliance and perhaps also in the Conservatives, to thank you for their speeches and their clear indication of where they stand, and also last Mr. Naser Khader with a very clear marking of where those parties stand. It is perhaps a little sad, one might say, that it actually suggests that there could be a majority right now in order to abolish that paragraph. We're just awaiting a clock vote in the alternative. It is very exciting, and I look forward to hearing how things are going. You could say that it's also a good way to stage yourself as a party. But it is very good, it has been very well done, and I look forward to seeing what comes out of your vote on Friday at 1 p.m. 4:00 p.m. I'll keep up with that. It is the case that, if the alternative ends up supporting the repeal of Article 140 of the Penal Code, there is in fact a majority, a marked political majority in the Folketing, which is in favour of its abolition, even though the Social Democracy and the Left are a little foot-timing. Social democracy is not only a little foot-timing. You have always stood firm on the wrong policy, as Mrs Trine Bramsen has said. However, I would like to say that the rapporteur of the Left was, after all, more softened in his approach to it. I almost heard, and this is how I interpret the Minister for Justice's speech, that if this paragraph had not been there, the government would not have proposed it. Therein lies, of course, a trivial recognition that the government, if otherwise the Minister of Justice in this context, is doing so I think he is making speeches on behalf of the government, in the sense that this is a paragraph that belongs to the past. It is not something that will be pursued in a way that will be maintained. If, then, I also take the Left for that part, I also hear in the speeches of the Left for and against and the grace of doubt and the kind of thing that the Left is in motion in this matter of abolishing the blasphemy clause. But, overall, I would like to thank you. This has been a very good debate, I think, and I do not really need to repeat all the views for and against this paragraph. They have already been said many times in different contexts, and I would just like to say that all these arguments are also the main thrust of what Enhedslisten has proposed, and that is why I hope we will be able to come to the conclusion that this bill will actually be finalised this spring and that it will also be adopted. I hope that the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative and the Left will find out that there is no reason to wait many months. If it is the case that an investigation is to be carried out, as the Minister for Justice has said, that is something that can be done within the next 14 days or 3 weeks. You don't need months to do that. So it can be achieved already here before the summer holiday, if it is the case that you have little drive. So I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154346	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154413	The debate is open. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154422	Thank you. The resolution requires the government to take the necessary initiatives so that Danish citizens over 18 years of age can be allowed to acquire, possess and use a pepper spray in self-defense within the framework of criminal law provisions on legal emergency guardians in their own homes. The government cannot support the proposal on this basis, but I would, of course, like to make some comments along the way, because I actually think there is a lot of good to say about it. I understand very well that as a citizen you have a need to feel safe in your own home. And security is also a matter for me, both as a politician and, of course, also as a minister of justice. I therefore also sympathize with the idea of legalising pepper spray in my own home. There are a number of practical challenges with the current proposal, which lies, and any consideration of legalising pepper spray calls for us to use the time needed to reflect on what such a scheme might look like. A restriction on Danish citizens, as proposed, would not be immediately compatible with the prohibition of discrimination laid down in the European Convention on Human Rights. At the same time, it is to be expected that there will be a relatively high demand for permits to possess pepper sprays, and therefore it will take up considerable police resources if applicants are to be water-approved and the individual spray can is to be registered, as the proposers suggest. Furthermore, it should also be carefully considered whether the sale of pepper spray should be a police task, i.e. whether the police should have such a shop for it. I think we could discuss whether this is the task of the police. In addition, it is worth noting that any legalisation of pepper spray, which is being proposed, will of course be a major step to take in Danish arms legislation. In the past, the National Police have identified a number of problems with possible legalisation. That is why we think that this is something that needs to be carefully considered. However, as I have already indicated, I have sympathy for the desire to increase the safety of citizens, and a number of European countries, as the proposers also note, have different regimes where pepper spray is legal. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to look at what arrangements other countries have. It could be that it could help us with this proposal so that we could see how it could be done. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to look at what arrangements other countries have. And if the experience of the other countries is something we can learn from, then we must include such knowledge if we are to consider a possible regime for legalising pepper spray as a contribution to the safety of our citizens. The Justice Department has begun. We are in the process of obtaining information from other countries, including those mentioned by the proposers, as regards their legislation on pepper spray and any experience they may have gained. In the light of this knowledge, we will consider further what a possible regime for the legalisation of pepper spray similar to that proposed could then look like. So, overall, the government cannot support this proposal, but I hope that the proposers have listened to the positive tone of the speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154749	That is what we are told, because the author of the motion for a resolution is here, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen, with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154753	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for at least the partial acceptance of this proposal. If I look at the list of countries this way, the Minister will mention the map that has some kind of scheme for citizens to get and use a pepper spray, I can mention just those that we are so 100 percent sure of: Austria, France, Finland, Portugal, Italy, Switzerland, Spain and Germany. These aren't banana Republics. These are, it has to be said, very comparable countries where conditions are orderly. And it is a mystery to me that there can be democratically elected majority in those countries that say that this can be done and that we have such confidence that it can easily be dealt with by the citizens themselves, when for many years there has been a majority in Denmark saying that we really do not dare to let the Danes touch this. Does the Minister for Justice not think that the line taken by a majority in Denmark in this area has been completely untenable to the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154854	The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154855	That argument could easily be used. I think that is also why the Danish People's Party has listened to the debate and with some motions for resolutions, just as it has tried to draw attention to where a possible majority could be. I'd like to sign for that. And then it is, of course, that I am simply saying that we have a number of considerations here that we need to put in place if it is to come to legalisation. I do not believe that it would immediately cause a great deal of damage if this were an opportunity one had in one's home. But I'd like to check everything out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154935	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425154936	It is also fair that we want to look into things. But then I want to ask you something else. After all, we have dealt with the proposal before, and then it went further. Then we tried to listen to all the good signals that came from the Danish Parliament and just to sum up our previous proposals, Mrs Britt Baker, the rapporteur of the Left said on the matter: "The Danish People's Party's proposal had some obvious shortcomings, but we are happy to enter into a dialogue around a trial period. After all, what we saw afterwards was that we made all the comments that were made in the Chamber. And now there are some more practical challenges, i.e. about citizenship, the relatively high demand... that's logical enough... and the sale of these things. So, you're not trying somewhere from the other parties in the blue block just to find good excuses for this not being possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155027	No, we are trying to ensure that, if it is to be realized, it is done the right way for the first time. And I think that the things I have just mentioned here are relevant. In other words, if we can come into conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights, why not organise it so that we do not come into conflict? There are more things like that. And then we go down and look at what it's like in Germany. We'll check it out and then we'll come back. And then I'm quite sure some of us need to be a little more informed that we're gonna get a good exit on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155100	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments, so we go to the rapporteur's line. First, Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155107	With the resolution here, the proposers want to make it legal to possess and use pepper spray for self-defense at home. This is a proposal which we in the Socialist Group cannot support. We cannot do this because we do not believe it makes our society any better or creates greater security. First of all, let me address the misunderstanding that often prevails in the public debate. It is now legal to use both self-defense and emergency guardian in your own home, but you must not run after a thief and avenge yourself. Sanctions are and remain the jurisdiction of the court. But you can defend yourself. We must remember that in Denmark we are one of the countries in the world with absolutely the least crime; crime, which over a long, long period of time has been sharply decreasing. To start legalizing small arms like pepper spray does not move in the direction of a more peaceful society. Nor do we believe in social democracy that it creates greater security in Denmark. We in the Social Democratic Party think that there is good reason to listen to professionals, including in the fight against crime. When the Chief of Police of the Central and West Jutland Police warns strongly against the proposal here, it is our duty to listen to it. The chief of police said a few years ago that the proposal here could end up benefiting the criminal most. I brought the quote from the chief of police. He says: "If you really imagine that a burglar is coming in the middle of the night, and there is a pepper spray on the nightstand, who gets it first? Of course, it does the burglar and uses it against the resident. The President of the Police Union has also warned on several occasions against the proposal, pointing out that it will only make the criminals more hard-handed and equipped with even harder weapons. That is why I ask quite quietly: is this the kind of society we want? Should we not rather use our energy to prevent crime and the causes of crime? That would be a far greater gain for both the victims and for us as well as for society. In addition, all experts point out that prevention has the greatest and best impact on crime. Let me say, then, that in the countries where pepper spray is legal, there is much more damage to children and innocent people. Because when there's a weapon in the drawer or on the nightstand, that weapon can also be used when there's a home conflict or when little curious kids' fingers get hold of it. In the Social Democratic Party we cannot support the proposal here. We do not believe that the answer to crime is to legalise small arms such as pepper spray, but we would very much like to discuss how to prevent crime to a much greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155417	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155419	Well, I am always happy to discuss how we can prevent crime, because we are in complete agreement, I think, in this Parliament that prevention is the way forward, and we would like to do so. This has nothing to do with this proposal, because this proposal would not, of course, end the rules mentioned by the Socialist rapporteur when it comes to emergency defence. The only question is: if you are exposed to it in your own home, it could be a home robbery... that was the rapporteur's own example... you have to reach out for a knife that you have in the knife block, or you have to reach out for the pepper spray you have in the kitchen drawer? That is, in fact, the question. This proposal, if it is up to us, would lead to less damage to people, because today the alternatives will go far beyond those who are exposed to it. So I actually think I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: can it really be true that the Social Democrats prefer to maintain a policy where what will be used for emergency defence will be far more harsh than what we are proposing here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155527	There is the very big difference between pepper spray and knives that knives and baseball clubs have other purposes. Pepper spray has only one purpose, and it is to defeat an enemy and passiveise an enemy, and therefore we cannot see why it should be introduced into the Danish homes. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party says that if it stands for DF, there will be fewer harmful effects. Yeah, if it's up to DF, but shouldn't we go and listen to those who know about this, the police, the police union, the experts? I think that those who deal with this and have their hands in it every day have a better sense of what it is going to mean than the Danish People's Party who guess.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155612	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155614	I would like to thank the rapporteur for his last comment, because I have seen the understanding that if you were to be subjected to a home invasion, for example, and you chose to take up arms to defend yourself and to passiveise this person until the police could show up, then you would go for what you have. And it is true that what you have today could be a baseball bat, or it could be a knife. That could be what you were reaching out for, but it has some long-term consequences. It can mean chronic damage to the person who is exposed to it. If you had such a spray, it would just mean that the person was blinded, but was not exposed to these very, very long-term consequences. I would just like to ask the rapporteur what the rapporteur means by saying that all experts disagree with the Danish People's Party. Well, can it be explained, because that's not the impression I have?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155704	We'll get the answer, here we go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155705	I have not yet found any experts who believe that legalising pepper spray is a good idea. I must also say that there is the big difference between pepper spray and the other things that it is a handgun. It can only be used to passiveize an enemy with. And we in the Social Democratic Party think it is wrong to send out to the Danes that we now need to equip the night table with a handgun when we compare it with the fact that, fortunately, we have falling crime. We are one of the most secure countries in the world. We think it sends out a completely wrong signal that we should equip the Danes with small arms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155736	We thank the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425155745	Thank you. A year ago we discussed here in the Danish Parliament a proposal from the Danish People's Party on the legalisation of pepper spray in Denmark. The Left had some reservations, rather reservations, about the proposal, which in its then form would mean that a 15-year-old child could go to the supermarket and buy the pepper sprays you wanted to buy. That's not exactly what we wanted. The Danish People's Party has corrected several of these points with the proposal being discussed in the Danish Parliament today, as was also mentioned in the previous rapporteur's speech, and that is why, of course, the Left is much more positive about the amended proposal now before us. We welcome the fact that the proposal now provides for a reasonable age limit, namely 18 years, to buy a pepper spray, and we welcome the fact that it alone can be used for emergency care and can only be used in its own home. Finally, I hope that certain safeguards will be envisaged in connection with the acquisition, that is to say. guidance, etc. However, the proposal also provides for the lifting of the arms law's ban on the use of pepper spray. The relevant provision of the Law on Arms, i.e. The proposal provides for the ban on pepper spray to apply only to foreign nationals. For Danish citizens, the use of pepper spray must be legal according to the proposal. That distinction immediately sounds to me to be contrary to the prohibition of discrimination in the European Convention on Human Rights. In addition, in practice it will also give rise to some strange cases. So, a Norwegian who is in Denmark is not allowed to use pepper spray, and if you live with a foreign citizen, then one must, and the other must not. And what if one of them isn't home? That is very unfortunate, I would hurry to say, but it is also contrary to the prohibition of discrimination in the European Convention on Human Rights, so we must at least have examined it further. Similarly, we would also like to see the foreign experience of the purchase of pepper sprays clarified, and the procedure for the acquisition should be checked. I think it would seem that there may be a fairly nice bureaucracy associated with it in the variant that is now being presented. At any rate, it should not be more complicated than necessary, but of course it is necessary to take back certificates of good repute and the like, so that stumped vessels can be excluded from the scheme. Where appropriate, they may be excluded from acquiring it. Whether stumped vessels can get hold of the pepper spray in question later? Yes, they can today, and of course they will be able to do so in the future, unfortunately. We must also have a closer look at the police business, if I may say so, so as to understand that it is apparently the police, among other things. I'm gonna sell these pepper sprays. I am not sure that this is just a central police task for a police force that is already under pressure on resources. So summa summarum, the Left is in favour of the proposal's intentions of citizen safety. We cannot vote in favour of the proposal because, as I have said, we need to have a closer examination of the legality and common sense of the Danish opt-out included in the proposal. In addition, we would also like to have the foreign experience clarified and then perhaps look at the matter at a later stage. I am not blind to the fact that many people see a pepper spray as a safety. I hope, then, that it will also be perfectly clear to people if, at some point, the Folketing decides to legalise pepper spray that it can be a false sense of security. I am, of course, interested in fellow members of parliament who tell us how to defend themselves and attack burglars and the like, but unfortunately I do not think that the situation in the practical world will be very different because there has to be a pepper spray on the nightstand. But if people have more security about it, yes, perhaps it can be the way forward or at least be something that they should be allowed to buy. However, as I have said, there are a number of issues that need to be examined further, not least the conditions surrounding what I call the Danish reservation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160214	Thank you. Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160218	Thank you. When we last debated this, we from the Danish People's Party made great efforts to write down all the proposals for changes that came from among others. Left. Then we are putting forward a proposal which takes account of all the changes that the Left might have, and now I understand that it is not good enough either. Now there are other things that need to be corrected. In the past there was too little control over how pepper spray was released, and now there is too much bureaucracy. It can be difficult to know exactly what to change. And now it is a question of whether to be a Danish citizen or not to get a pepper spray. To that I would say that the Danish People's Party would like to table an amendment on this when we deal with the matter in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Then, of course, I hope that it will give rise to a change of course on this issue. Let me just end by asking, so we are quite clear: what will it take to enable the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, to support this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160313	I can at least start by saying that it must be in accordance with the international rules to which Denmark has committed itself. I almost dare say with assurance that it is not today. In any case, it must be fulfilled. I would also like to say that we will look at the foreign experience of this and we will have to know how to obtain a pepper spray. What are the water requirements that must be met? And what rules should apply in general to the use and storage of pepper sprays? So the rapporteur isn't gonna make it in this round anymore. I think the rapporteur should welcome this, and I can confirm to the rapporteur that the rapporteur is right in saying that the Left still has the same view as in the past. I can also welcome the fact that the Danish People's Party has adapted to, among other things. the views of the Left last. However, as I said, there are things that need to be looked into, not least in relation to international law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160408	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160410	We shall correct this by means of an amendment. Then we'll sort it out, and then I guess the Left can, of course, back it up. Then I will read a quote for the rapporteur, and it is from 2014: "The time has come for us to legalise pepper spray for self-defense in our own home. You don't have to run around with it on the street, but I can understand the Danes who are insecure and have a pepper spray standing on the nightstand. It is a quote from the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration Inger Nøjberg. I even think it was launched on the front page of Politiken back in 2014. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether this is in line with an old Left Slogan called: "Left do you know where you've been?" And does that agree with: "Left: So do you know it's going to happen?"
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160452	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160453	I can say, on that quotation, that I can only agree with the Minister. I also understand that people who are insecure buy a pepper spray. I just allowed myself to bring the debate down to the ground with a practical example and say that, unfortunately, I am not quite sure it will help. I am not sure that when you are in the practical situation, you can overpower the thief with a pepper spray. I'm just about to say it's got to be a test. The funny thing is that there are a lot of Danes who have already acquired a pepper spray qua the fact that you can acquire it abroad, but I haven't really done that because I haven't been following the debate well enough... seen the press talk that just a pepper spray has prevented an ongoing attack. But it is possible that it exists. At any rate, I think that the Danish People's Party should welcome the more positive approach of the Left to this and, as I have said, we are willing to consider it, with the reservations I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160550	Mrs Lise Bech has asked for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160554	Thank you. I would like to say that it is very good that the Left is positive about this proposal. It's not so nice that the Left still rejects it. Because we've just tried to make this proposal, so it's edible for everyone. We have been told that it should not be more complicated than necessary, and it was before, it is said. But what I really want to ask you is that we should not have pepper sprays, because it is for the benefit of the stumped vessels. Can we not agree that a great many of the stumbled vessels already have pepper sprays that have just been acquired abroad?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160646	Yeah, compared to the last one, I'm pretty sure that's what stumbled vessels have. Unfortunately, I believe that they also have more serious means than just a pepper spray, so we will probably not disagree on that. It is said that the Danish People's Party has arranged the proposal, so it is edible for everyone. But I do not believe that, because I cannot imagine that we have said in the past that we are completely indifferent to the ban on discrimination in the European Convention on Human Rights. We're not. But I would also like to say that let us not dig deeper into the ditches. I have generally expressed a favourable opinion on the motion for a resolution, and if we get rid of that one, I can hear Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen is putting up with the idea that we will only have to check whether the same rules for the use and acquisition of pepper spray, including abroad, can also be applied in Denmark. And then I think we can actually go a long way in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160735	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160737	I am sorry, and I am correcting it to the effect that it is edible for many. However, I would like to hear about the fact that it has to come to a test, as the rapporteur says. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160750	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160750-2	Now I've reached an age where I barely remember what I said five minutes ago. But what was supposed to depend on a sample was whether pepper spray actually has the effect that Dansk Folkeparti and several questioners have, that is, if you just have a pepper spray next to the bed, then the attacks will be averted. And there I think, without having to go into details, that the stingy vessels will probably have some way to prevent that from happening, or rather protect themselves from the pepper spray if it is used. But it is no secret that it provides a sense of security for many people. We can see that, and we will not neglect it in the Left, and that is why we are positive about going in and looking at the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160837	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, who now has the opportunity to give her rapporteur's speech. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425160859	This proposal from the Danish People's Party is an irresponsible one. It is a proposal based on a false premise that more weapons should provide more security, but the opposite is really the case, i.e. that Denmark is one of the most secure countries in the world, among others. because we have strict arms legislation, and we must, of course, continue to have that. We should not have an arming of the population with something that is a handgun. It will not create more security, it will create less security. Some of the other rapporteurs have raised the issue that this could lead to an escalation. If burglars, for example... Know that pepper spray is lying around in every home, what kind of weapon would they consider bringing instead? The pepper spray can also be taken by the burglar and used against the resident. It can also be used in conflicts within the home, for example. marital conflicts, and children can get hold of it. When broken into the home, it can be stolen and used in other contexts. More pepper spray, which is a small hand, will lead to a general increase in the presence of pepper spray in society, and this will increase the likelihood that it will be more accessible, for example. if people want to take it into town. It would not, of course, be legal if this proposal were adopted. But everything else equal, it will increase the likelihood that the use of pepper spray in general will increase if a proposal like this is adopted. Then there is also the more fundamental problem that it is between the lines that pepper spray should not be a violent weapon. And it has to be said that the use of pepper spray, also according to the Østre Landsret, must be described as an attack of a particularly dangerous nature. It is therefore the Østre Landsret who has meant it in a matter. I very much agree with that, because it is of course about pepper spray not being such an innocent thing that comes out of a can. It is a question of dangerous weapons, such as nuclear weapons. can cause severe lesions on the cornea. I think it is very problematic that, in several parts of society, pepper spray is referred to as a harmless substance or something that is not what it is, namely a small arms which are dangerous and whose use should be described as an attack of a particularly dangerous nature if you actually choose to use it. After all, we have also had the discussion about pepper spray in relation to the use of pepper spray by the police. And that reminds us a little of the argument put forward, as Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen has said in the Chamber today that if the police were to be sprayed with pepper spray, which the police have been given, it would lead to less use of force, for then the police would use less of a stick or a gun. However, the statistics speak their own clear language, because we can see that after the police have been allowed to use pepper spray, pepper spray has, in effect, just become a means of power that is used with all the others. Therefore, the use of violence or the use of force, where pepper spray is used, has been increased by the police in the sense that pepper spray has simply been added to the use of other means available to the police, for example. stick and gun. So the use of pepper spray by the police has not led to a reduction in the use of force to citizens. It has actually led to more. Overall, this is about preventing crime, as Mrs Trine Bramsen also mentioned. It is about continuing a line where strict arms legislation in Denmark has helped us to be one of the safest and safest countries in the world, and therefore Enhedslisten cannot support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161300	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161303	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. We must remember that, even though we disagreed with many parts of it. I just have one simple question for the rapporteur, and that is: is Germany an insecure country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161316	Germany is not an insecure country, but this is about whether we should allow ordinary people to be equipped with a handgun in their homes. We believe that this will make Denmark more and not less insecure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161336	The times when I have been here recently in Germany I have not had occasion to believe that there should be something completely wrong, and this despite the fact that their politicians must have a much higher level of confidence in the population, because there you can go in there you can't even register and buy a pepper spray if you want to have one of these at the bedside table. I know it has not given rise to all the ills that Mr. Rune Lund almost threatens to overturn the Danes and make us scared and insecure and start a arms race and all sorts of other things. I think that if you look at comparable countries, all the arguments put forward by Enhedslisten today fall to the ground. This has not given rise to any major problems. So where does Mr. Rune Lund from this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161423-2	Perhaps I think it would be appropriate in this context if Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen could provide some information or evidence that in those countries which can be comparable to Denmark and where there is less restrictive and less strict arms legislation, it should have helped to combat crime on a particular scale. Firstly, I do not think that can be proved. Secondly, and we see this: once this kind of legislation has actually been introduced, it may be difficult to roll back. This shows the experience we have from other countries. When you feel like the Enhedslisten, namely that more weapons will mean less security, it is clear that then it is the wrong way to go to allow the population to be able to arm themselves with small arms like this. Even if it is kept within the framework of the home, it will be a step in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161518	Sir. Jan Erik Messmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161520	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund mentions that the Danish People's Party is an irresponsible party. That means that all the countries we have now heard about where you are allowed to have a pepper spray, so everyone is irresponsible. I think it is very wrong to put it that way. It was also mentioned that it is particularly dangerous to have a dangerous handgun like pepper spray lying at home and using it. We also know that all the elderly and those who live alone, and who are very afraid to be alone, would be happy to have something they could feel just gave them some security. This is so easy because even a small hair spray, which most women have, is far more dangerous than a pepper spray. Then Mr. Rune Lund, isn't it a little wrong to say that it's a dangerous handgun, because we all have one at home?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161615	Pepper spray is a dangerous handgun. This can cause serious corneal lesions, and it is not considered an innocent remedy. I find it deeply problematic that much of the discussion about pepper spray goes on the assumption that pepper spray is not dangerous. Pepper spray is dangerous. It is also something that the Institute of Human Rights has described and documented in a 2015 report which deals with the use of pepper spray by the police. It is also something which, among other things, is important. The Østre Landsret has founded a judgment in which pepper spray has been involved. This has been defined as an attack of a particularly dangerous nature. In fact, I think that is right when you take advantage of something that can cause serious eye lesions. And is that irresponsible? Yes, it is because it is based on an idea that more weapons create more security. I think that is an irresponsible approach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161709	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161727	Thank you for that, President. The Liberal Alliance believes in principle that pepper spray should be legalised in some form, and to that extent we agree with the proposers, because we do not believe that it should be reserved for criminals who, by circumventing the law, acquire pepper spray, whereas completely law-abiding citizens who just want to use it to protect themselves cannot be allowed to buy it. So in principle we agree with the Danish People's Party. Having said that, there are some elements in the specific resolution that make it impossible for us to support that particular model. Let me just highlight two points. Firstly, there is the principle that it is, after all, discriminatory that only Danish citizens are allowed to have pepper sprays. Other citizens, whether you are a Danish citizen or not, should of course have the same basic access to pepper spray as all sorts of others. They also have a need to protect themselves. I mentioned my own mother, a Norwegian citizen, who has lived in Denmark for some 40 years, I think, but has not given up her Norwegian citizenship. She doesn't have Danish citizenship. She lives in a house in the country. If this gets legal, I don't see any good argument for her, for example. should not be allowed to protect themselves. So that is in principle discriminatory against, for example. My mother. I think that is a weakness of the proposal. Secondly, it is purely administrative. I think we are setting up a somewhat bureaucratic and heavy model, in terms of how to set it up, and, of course, in particular, a model that draws very hard on the resources of the police. I know that is something that is already very much at the heart of the Danish People's Party. So I'm a little surprised that that's exactly the model you're putting up with. I think that is another weakness of the specific proposal. This does not change the fact that we agree in principle with the Danish People's Party that pepper spray should be legalised in some form, and I hope that we can cooperate with each other to find a model that everyone thinks is good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161932	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425161935	Thank you for those two corrections. I can promise the rapporteur that I have no plans to discriminate against the rapporteur's Norwegian mother. I wouldn't dream of that. And I would also like to take on board the proposal, if it is the administrative one and the one with an overly heavy model that is in the proposal. I don't want it to take us apart. So I just want to ask the rapporteur something. When the Danish People's Party is now submitting amendments, not only on the citizenship issue, but also on the administrative issue, we can write it together • Will the Liberal Alliance then vote for the final proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162009-2	First of all, thank you for the intention not to discriminate against my mother or other mothers, who also have a citizenship other than Danish. Now we are not going to make selective legislation, so thank you for that. Compared to the other, if we're also going to be a little serious, it all depends on what kind of model we can then agree to describe. If we can reach each other on that, as I said in my speech, we are completely open to looking at models. And I think we should definitely do that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162039	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162040	I am glad that the Liberal Alliance, although it has entered the government, still has some liberal views, including in this area. So I think that we need to get this started as soon as possible, because I think it is important that a majority be created for it. So I have nothing more for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162055	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162056	How nice to hear that the Danish People's Party appreciates the Liberal Alliance being liberal. I can promise the Danish People's Party that we will continue to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162104	Thank you very much to Mrs Christina Egelund and welcome to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162112	Thank you. In relation to this motion for a resolution tabled by the Danish People's Party, I must say that the alternative does not support it. I don't think that's a surprise. We are, in fact, quite opposed in principle to the motion for a resolution. In fact, I think it is a fairly basic motion for a resolution. If you read behind the arguments that it is not as bad as using a baseball bat or a kitchen knife to defend yourself in your own home, this is a very fundamental issue in that we are actually living in a quite secure community of law and that we have surrendered the task of protecting our citizens to our police. This has been the case historically in Denmark, and so we think it should continue to be. To the extent that you start encouraging or suggesting that citizens in Denmark acquire a remedy, be it a pepper spray, which in this case has the specific purpose of defending themselves against, for example. a burglar, we also compromise on the whole fundamental principle of our secure legal society. Then I know there's still a burglary going on, but we have a police force that we can call. So, to the extent that we begin to recognise that it should be necessary to buy pepper sprays for self-defense and as emergency guardian, we simply compromise on the principles of the society that we really think we want. Then we can make it safer. At least we can do that. I very much agree with both the rapporteurs of the Enhedslisten and the Social Democrats when they say that this is about prevention. But that Danish citizens should acquire a pepper spray, which should be in the drawer in the event that a burglar arrives, we disagree in principle. If you use the baseball bat that you have standing in the garage, or the kitchen knife that you have in the drawer, if the case should arise that you are being attacked in your home, it is some media that you already have and that you need for other purposes. I would also like to make two further comments on this. One is that the number of break-ins in Denmark is decreasing, so what is really the reasoning behind making this proposal? We have a downward curve of break-in in Denmark; it actually goes the right way, and that is positive. It can still get better, but it is positive. The second is that if you think that we are not protecting our citizens properly in Denmark, and that more police resources are needed to carry out the general task of protecting citizens in their own homes, it is a resource issue which is about how we prioritise police resources in Denmark. We could consider doing the right thing here. I would like to take the priority debate, because I think it is much more important, namely whether we should consider whether all the resources we are currently using for border control could be used to look after the Danish citizens if we believe that there is more need for it. So it is on the principle that we disagree, and I would really like to thank the rapporteurs who have produced some other arguments against which I myself have not thought or which we have not discussed, among other things. this with what it will actually mean for the safety of the home country, that there is a pepper spray in a drawer in a bedside table. I don't think that's very safe for a family with kids either. So, all in all, thank you for the proposal, but we cannot support it by the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162454	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162458	It does not come as a great surprise to me, I have to admit that the alternative cannot support it. But there is something in the argument that forces me to ask the rapporteur of the alternative. This argument was used that the number of break-ins in Denmark is decreasing, and that is such a good argument for not following our proposals. It could also be reversed: so, if the number of break-ins in Denmark was increasing, would the alternative be able to support such a proposal? Or is it just rhetoric in relation to the number of break-ins?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162527-2	No, we would also not support such a proposal if the number of break-ins in Denmark was increasing. We do not, in fact, believe that we should have a tool in our home that is aimed at being able to defend itself when it is such a tool that could potentially be dangerous. When I ask the question, it is the more because I am asking questions to DF's rapporteur or to the Danish People's Party about why it is really necessary to make this proposal at all, since there is no obvious reason for it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162557	Thank you, Mrs Magdalene Maier, and welcome to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162608	Thank you. We cannot support the motion for a resolution. It has, of course, been put forward in a slightly different version in the past, but our arguments are in so far as they are the same. We are opposed to the proliferation of weapons, and we are afraid that a pepper spray will lead to a general escalation, not only at home, but that easier access to small arms will also make them spread more. We're also afraid of bad luck. It may be wet shoots that you might be using it against the wrong one. It should not be forgotten that the police are also trained to find out when there is a critical situation and when to use a weapon. That's not the kind of thing the rest of us have an education in. We're also afraid of friendly four. I don't know what the right term would be here, but I think you know what I mean, that you might be using it against the son who comes home late and may have forgotten to tell Mom and Dad that he is going to spend the night at home. Or what if some kids get a pepper spray? We're afraid that kind of accident could happen if a weapon like that was at home. Then we are also afraid of false security, that is to say that it will increase safety, when the opposite can actually be the case. Because you may not be able to take it from people that they can feel safer if they have one in the drawer, but the result may well be the opposite. Because would it actually increase your security by resorting to emergency guardians? So, there is no doubt that there are probably many burglars and home robbers who could well deserve to get something in their heads and that it hurt a little bit in their eyes, but is it also advisable to encourage people to use pepper spray in such situations, or is it really about making sure that those people go before they have been able to do harm to the people to whom they offend? It will probably be my advice and I think that is the advice that most professionals will give, namely that it is of course about in such a situation to ensure that you are not subjected to violence. Unfortunately, I believe that the presence of a pepper spray could escalate the situation and lead to violence. Then there is also something that several people have mentioned up here, namely who it is that the Danish People's Party has typically used in their arguments. It has been the case for the elderly, but is it the older Mrs. Olsen, aged 85, who first gets the pepper spray on the nightstand, or is it the young burglar? That is why I find it extremely difficult to see that the introduction of legal pepper spray in private homes could lead to increased security, perhaps a false sense of security, but when the specific situation arises, I believe that the presence and use of this weapon would in the vast majority of cases lead to a dangerous escalation, that is, dangerous to the person who is the victim in a possible home invasion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162938	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no brief comments, so we go to the SF rapporteur, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, who is on the way now. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425162955	This isn't a new discussion. We have it on a regular basis, and there is no doubt about DF's attitude towards this area either. But let me start by saying that in the SF we cannot support this proposal. I don't think that comes as a surprise to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, rapporteur in this area. I think that there is a good reason, and I would also like to congratulate my fellow Members, for having gone through quite systematically a few myths. Every time we talk about home robberies and pepper sprays, need for protection, etc., one can get the impression that Denmark is a hotbed of home robberies, that crime is rapidly growing, and the way we talk about these things as politicians, as ministers, is also contagious of how the people feel and it experienced security. In terms of measurement, we can see it a little strange that people's security is falling while crime is falling. It should be the other way around. It should be the case that it experienced security also came with a more secure society, and that is after all the joyful news Mrs Trine Bramsen also mentioned that we actually have a more secure society. Crime in a large number of areas is decreasing, and that is really positive. This does not mean, of course, for the individual person, the individual family who is subjected to a robbery, a break-in, that some enter their private homes, that it is not one of the most cross-border feelings and experiences one can experience. Fortunately, I have not experienced it myself, but I think it must be one of the most unpleasant things. But as Mr. Rune Lund also mentioned, we can unfortunately see in countries where you start getting different kinds of handguns, and it is pepper spray also that next time it can become another weapon and eventually become guns or guns or whatever it may be. That is not what we are talking about here, we would, of course, like to emphasise and acknowledge, but then it escalates. What happens if there's a burglar? Is he going to have an older lady in a hand-to-hand fight? The reason why we are one of the most peaceful societies mentioned by the Enhedslisten's rapporteur is that we have very strict arms legislation, that we do not think we should tell the citizens that they should start to get involved physically with people who break into houses or something else. Then I also thought that I was not aware of the fact that Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen had a point, namely that it would not actually be at all EU-friendly at the moment if you were to bring it to the end, namely who is allowed to use pepper spray. This in itself puts an end to the fact that this could be done. But on the part of the SF we will not support it, even if there was no argument. We think it is positive that we see crime falling into many areas. Some of the few areas where it is increasing are cybercrime and financial crime, and we must also overcome that, but the forms of crime in which people really feel the insecurity where it is their lives and lives, their families, their own homes, are falling, and even more must be prevented. I also heard the rapporteur from the DF recognise this, namely that prevention is the most important thing, because it is of course more important for some people to avoid being exposed to these things than to subsequently punish those who have done so or to use pepper spray. So, of course, the most important thing is to ensure that it does not happen at all. On another occasion, too, we have had Mrs Trine Bramsen and others discussing burglary protection, and that is also why we say that the most important thing is to ensure that we can get the number of break-ins in Danish homes significantly down. We know the answer to that. That's quite interesting. We know what it takes. Unfortunately, we have too many break-ins in this country, and we know that something as simple as a three-second rule to make sure that windows and doors can't be so easily used to break in is one of the things that needs to be done. That's where our focus is. We think it's a glide with pepper spray and what it can escalate to. We see it as a handgun, so we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163445	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no brief comments, and that is why we are hurrying over to Mr. Naser Khader of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163457	The Danish People's Party has tabled a motion for a resolution to allow the legalisation of pepper spray for self-defense in the context of legal emergency defence. In fact, we in the Conservative People's Party are very much in favour of the proposal. It is important that people feel safe in their own homes, and you should not be afraid to be attacked in your own home. Having said that, we in the Conservative People's Party cannot support the proposal because there are a number of practical challenges which the Minister of Justice has also explained and which are not compatible with its implementation. This concerns, among other things: that only Danish citizens over 18 years of age are discriminated against in this and that you should be able to buy it from the police. In this particular case, the National Police have advised against legalising pepper spray. It will seize a lot of resources from the already very scarce resources of the police, because they must also be able to approve applicants and register all the aerosols, and so it takes a lot of resources from the police. We have noted that the Ministry of Justice is in the process of obtaining experience and information from other countries where pepper spray is legal. The Conservative People's Party does not support the proposal at this stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163626	Sir. Peter Kofod Poulsen has a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163630	And that is really just a comment. I would just like to say to the rapporteur, of course, what I have said to other rapporteurs, namely that if it is a question of practical changes to this proposal, such as the fact that it is the police who have to approve or the police who have to sell, it is a matter of free debate. The same applies to the nationality requirement laid down in the proposal, which we would very much like to change. So the rapporteur must not leave and think that this has been cut in cement, because everything can therefore be changed again. That's all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163704	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163705	We are very, very happy to hear that. But that doesn't change the fact that the police are under pressure, the police lack a lot of resources. We have devoted many of the police resources to combating terrorism and other areas, and this has a higher priority at this stage. As I said, we're positive, but just not in this round. We'll wait until the police have more resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163733	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163735	What the rapporteur is saying with regard to the police, I think is quite fair, and that is also why I am offering the rapporteur that we can remove this from the police so that we can completely free the police from this burden which it might be and which lies in this proposal, because I kind of agree with the Conservatives that we need to have a stronger police force quickly. After all, this autumn we will also be discussing admissions to police education for 2018 and 2019, and I think that will be an exciting discussion, so the rapporteur must not at last think that it will separate us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163804	I'm glad to hear the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163812	We'll also thank you from up here to mr. Naser Khader. And then we have come to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Peter Kofod Poulsen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425163829	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteurs, and thank you to the Minister for the comments that have been made during this debate. After all, on the basis of a proposal on the legalisation of pepper spray, which we tabled some time ago, we have put forward a new one, and that is what we are dealing with now. When we first dealt with the last proposal in the Chamber, there was a lot of scepticism and concerns from other parties, particularly from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party, and in the Danish People's Party we are an incredibly listening party, which means that we sat down and made a whole new proposal, where the concerns raised by our good friends in the blue block were taken into account, addressed in the new proposal, so that as a starting point it was possible for all blue parties to vote in favour of this proposal. This also means that the proposal we are discussing here alone allows you to have a pepper spray in your own home. It is no secret that I would have liked to have gone further, but if that is what it takes to bring other good people along, that is how it must be. But you shouldn't be allowed to bring it. It is simply an opportunity to defend oneself if one were to be exposed to crime; it could, for example, be done by the European Court of Justice. Be a home invasion. We think a pepper spray is quite a sensible device, because it does not, of course, cause permanent damage to the person who is exposed to it, such as using other means of defence, i.e. if you pull a knife from the kitchen drawer or reach for the cookie roll or other things you could just have at your fingertips. For us, it has been a great wonder for many years now that we in Denmark have at least had a majority against pepper spray, bearing in mind that in many other countries sensible solutions can easily be found for citizens. A number of countries have already opened up for their citizens to own a pepper spray: Austria, France, Finland, Portugal, Italy, Switzerland, Spain and Germany. It's just to mention a few. And then I wonder what the reason must be for the Danes to be less responsible than the citizens of the countries I just listed up. For that is the signal when you do not want to legalise the very means of defence that citizens in other comparable countries have had access to for many years. I know it hasn't caused a lot of problems, I know it's going so well. At the same time, our proposal also contains a great deal of restrictions: for example. You must be 18 to have a pepper spray; it must be identifiable with a serial number so that it is controlled; you must obtain a permit to have one, but then you may make a limitation so that people convicted of perilous crime cannot get a permit; you must notify the police if you lose your spray. But it also opens up the possibility that Mr. and Mrs Jensen, who may wish to have a pepper spray at home, is given the opportunity to have it without being criminalised. At the same time, I also think it must be my duty to call on the bourgeois parties, who, before the elections, had a lot of opinions and were extremely liberal in this area, to measure up to the positions they had until very recently. Allow me to quote the current Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, Inger Løbberg: Time has come to legalize pepper spray as self-defense in our own home. You don't have to run around with it on the street, but I understand the Danes who are insecure and have a pepper spray standing on the nightstand. It's a quote from 2014, so long it hasn't been that long. And I think that, in this matter, Inger Løjberg is absolutely right and that what she said was very sensible. Or Simon Emil Ammitzbøll of the Liberal Alliance, who also wanted to liberalise it in 2014, and he said that it was quite fine that you could have a pepper spray in your own home. So there should be forces in the blue block working to make the pre-election speeches a reality now that we finally have the chance to do so. I would also like to sign here, in particular, for the rapporteur's speech by the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who made it very clear that this was something that was being worked for in the government. I think that is a good thing. From the side of the Danish People's Party we will push forward so that we can get to the end of this before we get a choice. So now I just hope there's action behind the words so we can get started. I should also like to say here, before closing off, that if there is any wish for a particular amendment to be tabled, there has been a desire on the part of a few of the rapporteurs for the Danish People's Party to do so in order for us to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164323	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164340	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164410	The authors of the motion for a resolution want to put all parts of the Community on an equal footing in the field of military service, and I therefore take the view that military service should be introduced in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The obligation to provide services is governed by the Military Service Act, which states that there is no military service in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. Cows and Greenlanders living in Denmark are subject to military service. There is no desire in the national government of the Faroe Islands and in Greenland's autonomy for military service to be introduced. It respects the government. We do not therefore see any reason for this, nor do we see any need for it at present. The proposers refer, inter alia, to: to that the analysis of the Ministry of Defence's future task solution in the Arctic, the so-called Arctic Report, points out that there is an untapped potential for recruitment and involvement of the Greenlandic population in the resolution of defence and emergency tasks. However, the Arctic report also recommends that increased involvement of Faroese and Greenlanders should be based on voluntaryness, and, as I said, the government agrees with this. In this context, the Defence and Ministry of Defence's Personnel Board will hold the Defence Information Day in 2015-2017 as a combined information and recruitment effort in Greenland. The information day will be evaluated later in 2017 to assess whether there is recruitment potential and basis for a more permanent solution. It is therefore the government's recommendation that the motion for a resolution B 61 be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164603	We thank the Secretary of Defense. And then we start with the rapporteurs, and the first is Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, Social Democrat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164616	I can have some sympathy for the proposal in this way that I think it will be of benefit both to the Defence, but also to young people in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, if they were to serve more military service. So there is sympathy for the intentions. I am very much in agreement with the Minister. I think there are some challenges in that. I find it difficult to do something like this without somehow involving self-government in it. The second problem in which I think there is a problem is that, as it is today, there are also some economic barriers to it; I have just received some answers from the Minister today about the economy which is in relation to, among other things, the economy. traveling home and stuff like that. So the conclusion of the Social Democratic Party is that we would like to debate the proposal further, but we think that the right place to debate it further is, if necessary, the circle of defence reconciliations and that this is also the case when we have to make a new defence settlement here later this year. So, with these comments, we reject the motion for a resolution as it stands here, but we welcome the debate during the autumn debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164725	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the rapporteur of the Left, sir. Peter Juel Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164739	Thank you for that, President. In line with both my Minister and my Socialist colleague, the Left cannot therefore support this motion for a resolution either, but I would like to try to enshrine it as lovingly as I can at all, and it is for the same reasons that my Socialist colleague also stressed. There is no doubt that military service applies to all who live in Denmark. If you have moved as a young Greenlander or as a young Faroese to Denmark and are resident here, then you are also included in the Danish military service when you have lived here for 10 years. Then we have jointly emphasized the Day of Defence, and there will be an evaluation during 2017, and then we will have to see what experience we can draw from it before we look at this question. And then we're also going to talk Danish defense here during the fall. So I have sympathy for the idea, but would also like to be more rewarded with what both home government and self-government have to think about; it is usually the case that when it comes to the Kingdom community, the negotiations are not taking place in the Ministry of Defence, but elsewhere, and I would also like to respect that, of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164859	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we actually jump to the rapporteur of the Left, no, the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, sorry, sir. Carsten Bach. The reason is that Enhedslisten's rapporteur has not arrived. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425164930	Thank you. The subject seems to be of little interest to Enhedslisten. The aim of this proposal, as has already been mentioned, is to ensure equality of military service between all parts of the Community. In other words, it is proposed that the people living in the Faroe Islands and Greenland should no longer be exempted from military service, as has been the practice in the past. In relation to the proposal before us, which we are now considering, I have an understanding of the motivation behind the desire to bring the Community closer together by forming three equal partners in the recruitment of conscripts for defence. So let me also make it quite clear that the Liberal Alliance is not opposed to a broad representation of the entire national community in defence, on the contrary. As the proposer rightly points out, the defence today carries out tasks relating to the whole Kingdom community and not just Denmark. Tasks such as coast guarding, sovereignty enforcement, patrolling in Arctic waters and effective civilian preparedness are all functions that benefit the Faroe Islands and Greenland. But it is important for the Liberal Alliance that this broad representation of the Kingdom community should be found through voluntary rather than through coercion. The Faroe Islands and Greenland, in particular, have been through the development of self-government and the repatriation of more and more areas of responsibility over the last few decades. It is generally a development supported by the Liberal Alliance, and there is an inherent desire of the majority of the people of the Faroe Islands and Greenland respectively about • just as in the Liberal Alliance's optics there is good reason for this type of decision to be made in the respective parts of the Kingdom Community. In this light, I am therefore also incomprehensible that the Danish People's Party actually wishes to oppose this development and will impose compulsory military service on young people in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. I do not think it will throw off any good in the wider relationship between the individual parts of the Kingdom Community, where ever more autonomy and the repatriation of more matters must be at the top of the agenda. In the Liberal Alliance, we are of the opinion that equal treatment in the service of military service within the national community is a decision to be taken in the Faroe Islands and in Greenland. And let me just point out that there is already the possibility today that Faroese and Greenlanders can serve as conscripts if they are resident in Denmark. The defence's information day may now also be held in Greenland in the future, and it is therefore also possible to be recruited voluntarily for the defence. If, from a political point of view, you want to attract a greater representation from the entire national community to the defence, you should instead use additional modern information and recruitment tools, tools to inform and motivate and justify why a career in defence is precisely valuable as a young man or woman living in the Faroe Islands or Greenland. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again that the Liberal Alliance is not at all opposed to a broad representation of the national community in defence, but we do not believe that forcing young people to serve military service does improve the anchoring of defence in the people of the Kingdom community, and that is why the Liberal Alliance also rejects the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165332	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next one, sir. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165341	Thank you. Speaking of which, in the alternative, we had our first policy development in the field of peace and defence last week, and it actually took place in Greenland. And it was in order to get the right framework straight away in relation to our policy development, because it is for the whole Kingdom community to think about how Denmark should act in foreign policy, security policy and defence policy. I haven't heard what happened yet, apart from getting some positive reports from up there. Our approach to this proposal is for the same reason because we simply do not have a policy in this area yet ■ that, as I usually do in terms of defence, I am based on our values and the ideas we have made in the field of foreign policy and that I take a position on that. And as a starting point we are not for military service like the one we see today, nor in isolation from Greenland and the Faroe Islands. We would like to introduce a civil duty in which everyone, both women and men and the whole community, if agreement can be reached on it, dedicates x months, just as we today see it with the military service to give something back to the country from which we get so much. And we really think this could be quite healthy, not just for the generation that is growing up today, but in general we think it is also why we want to speak in favour of a civil duty later on, but where civil duty therefore includes the possibility of earning it in social work or humanitarian work or mediation in conflict resolution, too militarily, if you want it, but that should not be the foundation. Moreover, it is a major decision, precisely if it is actually the case that we are going to force the Faroese and Greenlandic citizens to be recruited in relation to military service. That is where we think it would require more discussion if we were finally to vote in favour. But since it is the whole Kingdom community that must have the same conditions, i.e. that it must be treated equally, I am actually very much in line with the proposers. That is what we think in the alternative. We also believe that this should apply to women, but we do believe that military service should be transformed into a civil duty, which therefore involves more than just the military, because we believe that this is the best way of creating security policy in the future, in other words by thinking much, much more humanitarian work and infrastructure work, conflict mediation and the like into our contribution to both NATO and the UN. So, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165633	There is one brief comment from Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165638	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. The politics held in Nuuk last week were, of course, held in cooperation with IA in the Folketing, and we will also keep one in Sisimiut, because we think it is extremely important that we get the people involved in this issue. The proposal also envisages a future defence settlement, and in Inuit Ataqatigiit we would very much like Greenland to be included in the forthcoming defence settlement, that the knowledge that we also have will benefit the forthcoming conciliation and benefit the whole Kingdom community. What is the alternative in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165715	But in the alternative, for good reasons, we ourselves have not yet been involved in a defence settlement. We simply have not had the opportunity to do so. There is also a long way to go on certain points, but we will certainly do our part to do so. In the same way, I think it should reasonably be the case that IA should also have the opportunity to do so if otherwise the political positions could meet in a defence settlement. I would also like to say that the reason why I did not mention cooperation with IA in connection with our policy development last week was actually that I wanted to go a little gently. Because we are not two equal parties, and I think it was so strong that IA would support the initiative, so I would not take anyone as an income for the policy of the alternative. But it was in cooperation with IA, and we got a very, very great benefit from it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165759	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165800	Thank you very much. These are precisely two different parties, and they are two different, what to say, focus areas that we have. But every good initiative we really do support, so I just want to sign off for the good cooperation in this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165814	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165816	Thank you and you, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165818	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then we have reached the radical rapporteur, Mr. Kristian Hegaard, speaking from his place. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425165830	Thank you. The Radical Left also believes that military service should not be extended to Greenland and the Faroe Islands, among other things. Because we do not believe in principle that military service should be extended in general. It is no secret that military service is not the most effective training when it comes to setting overall priorities. However, there is no room for all conscripts in the later training course. For this reason alone, we do not think we should extend military service, because that is simply not what meets the challenges of the future. For while 50 push-ups are being taken by hypothetical new conscripts from Greenland and the Faroe Islands, Denmark will be subject to another cyber attack. It is precisely cyberattack that is the main direct threat to Denmark, and it requires knowledge, experts and fix fingers on the keyboard, not more conscripts. It is gratifying to note that there was a good attendance for Greenland's response to the Day of Defence, but it does not say that we are now about to spread force and duty. We have to let those who willingly make a career do it. We can do this without extending military service, but instead by relying on those who want to, on the professionals. There is no doubt that among the future security policy issues for Denmark, the Arctic is a very important theme, and in an analysis from the Ministry of Defence of the Arctic, pilot projects are proposed with the establishment of elements of defence training in Greenland, but it does not have to be military service either. It does not need to be an extension of less effective education. We must be honest and say that an extension of military service in Greenland, for example, would not have the slightest impact on the situation around the Arctic. So enough for the most important argument: I have not heard any political representatives from Greenland and the Faroe Islands speak for or ask for military service to Greenland or the Faroe Islands, so let us, with respect for autonomy, exempt them from military service whenever they wish. So the Radical Left cannot see the arguments for extending military service and is therefore opposed to the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170105	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then suddenly things are moving fast, because I do not see the SF rapporteur, nor the Conservative rapporteur. Then it is the North Atlantic members, and we go to Magni Arge from T who gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170140	Thank you. Today, April 25, we celebrate the flag day of the Faroe Islands, and we have done so every year since 1940. It is a national holiday where we celebrate the Faroese identity as people and nation. Everywhere in the Faroe Islands and around the world, we raise the Faroese flag to the top. The Lagman speaks in Reykjavík, the president of the world's oldest parliament speaks in Runavík, and in Copenhagen the cousins gather at half past five at Regensen, where Jens Olivur Lisberg first raised the flag in 1919. The Flag Day is of course also celebrated in his little hometown, Fámjin, as well as in London, where the deputy will have the opportunity to put the Faroe Islands on the agenda. However, in the Folketing, the Faroese flag is not flapping on 25 April, the only Festival Day, which has a pure Faroese origin. The official Denmark decided instead to mark 29 July as Faroese flag day in Denmark. It may have a historical explanation. On 25 April 1940, the English Admiralty officially recognised the use of the Faroese flag Merkið as a symbol of Faroese nationality on all Faroese ships under the control of the Ally. On the other hand, ships with Dannebrog were identified as potentially hostile. This was the reality in April 1940, when Denmark was occupied by Germany and the English took on the defence of the Faroe Islands. The Danish authorities protested against the recognition of the Faroese flag, which they considered to be a rebelble problem, but in 1948 Denmark also recognised the Faroese flag. In the days between Denmark's occupation and the arrival of the British Navy in the Faroe Islands, the Faroese Lating decided to declare the Faroe Islands a country that did not participate in acts of war. And that decision is still gone. Only in 2003 the Faroese Laying refused to involve the Faroe Islands in the war in Iraq. But although we did not participate in aggressive military actions, the Faroe Islands contributed greatly to the British fight against Nazism during World War II, among other things. Faroese seamen sailed continuously with fish to the British people during the war. The effort cost more than 210 forefathers their lives and one third of the Faroese fishing fleet was lowered. In relation to the situation, we suffered great losses, and in 1993 the Folketing recognised the efforts of the Faroese seamen and awarded them war pensions in line with other seamen who served the interests of the Allied. Instead of celebrating the national Faroese flag day, I have to deal today with a proposal from the Danish People's Party that young Faroese men should in future be forcibly printed for military service under the Danish flag. Among the reasons are wordings such as that all parts of the Kingdom community should be treated equally. Does it have anything to do with self-determination and equality when it comes to the compulsory printing of Faroese youth to serve in a Danish military in which we have neither lot nor part? And does this mean that we must also talk about equality in the context of defence policy, where we have virtually no influence? Personally, I would like to see all parts of the so-called Kingdom community treated equally, and I absolutely believe that the Faroe Islands and the Faroe Islands should undertake to maintain sovereignty over the Faroe Islands and exempt the Danish military from all obligations in this regard. The reason for B 61 also states that the Faroe Islands must take co-responsibility and make their contribution to taking care of their country, and more autonomy means that they themselves contribute to the defence and rescue services in their respective territories. Does the Danish People's Party not know that in the Faroe Islands we have our own preparedness, which has both ships and helicopters and personnel who are among the most competent in the world for an effort in the North Atlantic and the Arctic? Does the Danish People's Party not know that it is the Faroese taxpayers who pay the bill for this preparedness? Arctic Command has a small office with the Faroese guard and rescue service, and the staff can be counted on one hand • that is it. We can take them tomorrow, square and free. Denmark has never succeeded in defending the Faroe Islands against aggression from outside, and therefore the defence of the Faroe Islands is in reality a joint responsibility for NATO countries and, to a large extent, a British area of interest. If we are to talk constructively about equal defence, we must not talk about military service, but about the major political lines and strategic efforts in the North Atlantic. We need to talk about cooperation in which our operational units form part of equal cooperation with other like-minded parties who want to safeguard peace and develop effective preparedness in our part of the world. That ambition does not have this proposal and I cannot therefore recommend this high point to vote in favour of the proposal. I would like to finish with a few lines from the Faroese flag song, Sjá tú blánar: Har ið merkini veittra, veittri eisini mítt,/tað ber kvøðu frá landi mínum fagurt and frítt;/and oak kenni meg orna gjøgnum monu and merg,/síggi brim randa strendur and berg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170727	I would like to thank the rapporteur for this. There is a brief comment from Aaja Chemnitz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170735	Thank you very much for that little song, and I also assume it is appropriate to congratulate you on your flag day. In the Faroe Islands, Arctic Command has a relatively small office, which the rapporteur also mentioned in his speech, while things as regards Arctic Command in Greenland look a little different. On the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we would like to see several Greenlanders employed, and so I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can elaborate on what he means by this constructive, equal dialogue which the rapporteur is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170805	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170807	Thank you. What I mean by that is that we in the Faroe Islands have been developing a readiness for many years, where we have had our own ships to carry out fisheries control and salvage operations, and we have had a helicopter service that dates back to the 1980s, and which today is actually state-of-the-art with two very modern helicopters and well-trained staff who have been trained to handle all sorts of tasks up in the North Atlantic and also in the Arctic, because they have actually worked a little extra up there. I think that all too often, from a Danish defence point of view, one thinks from the top down, and then one says that one might allow Greenland and the Faroe Islands to be a conscript or something like that. That is not the level at which I think we should move. I think we should move to another far more equal level, where we are discussing defence policy objectives and where we are discussing preparedness and how we can work together in an equal way and have a proper influence on our own relationship.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170918	And how could this be specifically imagined? One can say that being part of a defence settlement could be one part, while another part could be that the parliament in the Faroe Islands or in Greenland was much more involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170933	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425170935	I understand if, in a Greenlandic context, you want to be part of the defence settlement. I am not so sure how relevant it is from the Faroese side to do so through the Faroese representatives here in the Folketing. However, I absolutely believe that the Minister for Defence and the Ministry of Defence must make an effort to keep a sensible dialogue upfront with the Faroese authorities on how this cooperation can be developed in a sensible way for the benefit of all parties involved in it. I have also told the Secretary of Defense at least the former one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171006	The next question is Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171014	The proposers use the words equality between all parts of the Kingdom community. And I noticed that that sentence is being used as a heading in the proposal. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he believes that there is equality between all parts of the Commonwealth since it is taken up that equal treatment should be applied.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171046	I must say to Mrs Aleqa Hammond that I am as surprised as she is at the statement contained in the proposal and I do not understand what equality is alluded to. Because if it is about equality in relation, for example, to equality in relation to equality in relation to equality in relation to equality in relation to equality in relation to equality in relation to equality in relation to equality in relation to equality in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in relation to equal treatment in In other words, we do not regard ourselves as part of the Danish military or that the Danish military is part of the Faroese community. These are two completely different units. And in the context of defence policy and security policy, we have an exceptionally small influence on Danish policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171135	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171137	The forthcoming defence settlement, I believe, has such an important impact on the Kingdom community that I personally believe it would be appropriate for the government to make representations to Greenland's self-government in order to hear the opinions of the self-government on the settlement, since the whole kingdom is affected by the settlement. If the government believes that parliamentary mandates should be involved in this, it must at least make representations to the governments of the countries to hear their input into the conciliation. What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171220	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171223	I fully agree, because I take the view that the foreign policy law adopted in 2005 and the pendant to it for Greenland do not offer a great deal of scope for influence for Greenland and the Faroe Islands on defence and security policy. But I think it is completely out of date, if I may say so, because I believe that we should be much more involved in this area because it is our time and our future that is at stake. I also believe that, from the point of view of the defence, efforts have moved to a much greater extent, for example. preparedness and environmental protection and similar matters. And it is important for us to be involved in organizing, participating in and also governing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171311	Thank you to the rapporteur. For the sake of further debate, I would remind you that the proposal actually concerns the issue of military service and not all other aspects of defence policy. So it's just so that it doesn't go completely off the rails forward-looking, a friendly recommendation. Then the next rapporteur is Mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171334	Thank you. I don't want to be so bombastic and so categorical, but today I am going to lie a little close to my good colleague, sir. Magni Arge. It can't be avoided. I think it is so good that the Danish People's Party dares to take up things that are often under a duvet for fear of saying something that can offend the North Atlantic or seem offensive. But you show more respect by saying things directly and frankly, saying your honest opinion than by keeping quiet to avoid confrontation. But in this case, the premises are wrong. The first is that the three parts of the Commonwealth are equal, and in today's political terminology it must come under the alternative factor. Because when it comes to security and defence policy, the Faroe Islands have nothing to say. This should be known, because historically there have been concealments and distortions when the government, bypassing the Faroese authorities, has allowed NATO and the United States to build military installations in the Faroe Islands. And former Foreign Minister Uffe Ellemann-Jensen has said directly that reference has been made to these installations when it has been necessary to defend against NATO that Denmark had a relatively low defence budget. It should also be known that when Denmark went to war with the United States in 2003, the matter was dealt with in Lattinget, and a large majority declared that it was opposed. But it had absolutely no effect on anything, because there is no equality. If it were the case that the Faroe Islands had a word to say in this area, then it would be quite natural, I think, to contribute both in terms of military service and in terms of budget. Personally, I would like to stress that I almost always fully agree with the decisions taken by the government in this area. When there is war participation and so on, I personally support it, but rights and duties must therefore be respected. If we become a little theoretical, then war is the extreme expression of foreign policy, and there are therefore examples of Faroese and Danish foreign policy interests being different. There has been a lot of debate on this over the last few years, and we should know that too. It should also be known that today, on 25 April, it is the flag day of the Faroe Islands, and that is because on this day the Faroese flag was recognised by Britain, precisely because the Faroe Islands and Denmark were each possessed by their own power during World War II. The second premise of the proposal is that, as the Faroe Islands want more autonomy, the Faroese population should contribute to the rescue service in the Faroe Islands itself. Sorry, I say this and now I have to repeat what my colleague said, but here the ignorance of the authors of the motion limits the embarrassment. The emergency aid is a Faroese matter. There are Faroese ships, Faroese helicopters, Faroese manning and Faroese financing. There is also always at least one Danish military ship in the Faroe Islands that is ready to contribute and do so, and thank you for that. It takes place in a very fine and beautiful Danish-Færøsk collaboration, but it is therefore under Faroese management. Overall, I think it is very good that this issue is being addressed. I myself think there is a lack of awareness in the Faroe Islands that freedom costs. I think there is a lack of awareness that the day no one from the West pulls a military uniform over his head, freedom is gone. That is why I myself have been very committed to the conditions of the not so few convicts who have done voluntary service in the Danish army. I'm very proud of them. A truly veteran association has now been formed in the Faroe Islands, which has received its own voice in the community, a voice that hopefully can both benefit the veterans themselves and increase people's awareness of the cost of freedom at sea. But what would increase this awareness more than anything else was if the Danish side were willing to follow the declaration signed in 2005, the Fámjin Declaration, which states that the Faroe Islands must be involved and have a say on foreign and security policy issues aimed at equality on all issues where Denmark and the Faroe Islands are jointly involved. When the kingdom goes to war, the entire kingdom becomes a warrior. It is of course important for the Faroe Islands, but there is neither involvement nor participation. In 2014, the Chairman of the Danish People's Party said that Denmark must be prepared to give the Kingdom community renewed energy and renewed attention. If you meant it, you could work for the 2005 declaration to be enforced. Instead, you will now have Faroese contributions without Faroese influence. If this proposal were adopted, there could certainly be new energy and increased attention, but not of the positive kind that Kristian Thulesen Dahl was talking about. On the contrary, the focus would be on the uneven conditions and the lack of equality in the Kingdom community. Realistically, of course, there will never be any real equality between the three countries of the empire in this area. Of course, the difference in size is far too great. But if the Faroe Islands, at least as a beginning, could express its formal opinion when Denmark goes to war, then that would be a step forward. A resolution now states which Danish parties support it and which are against it. If we could, if nothing else, have a system which indicated whether the Faroe Islands supported or did not support a specific action, then we would approach the purpose of the Fámjin Declaration. It would not have any concrete significance, but it would have moral and political significance. Well, it has. This can be seen from how many times the parties that opposed the decision in 2003 take this forward in the debate. So there are things we can do to get a better balance in things, but to start by imposing duties on the Faroe Islands without giving Faroese authorities a single word to have said is not a good way to open this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171925	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425171935	Now I know that my Faroese colleagues must move on to the Faroe Islands, so we allowed them to get on first. I would like to start by thanking the author of the motion for a resolution, because I am actually pleased, although there seems to be no support, that we have this debate. I think it is very important that we discuss some of the things that may be difficult to discuss. On the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits, we want more Greenlanders, than is the case today, to be involved in the defence's task-solving in the future. You can do it in many different ways, including: through the defence information days, as the Secretary of Defense also mentioned earlier. There might well be an opportunity for those who are interested in training and becoming permanent defence staff to have better opportunities. We do not believe that inuit Ataqatigiits should be conscripted, but are willing to discuss some other areas where we can ensure a stronger involvement of the Greenlandic population. Politically, we also believe that Greenland should be represented in the forthcoming defence settlement, especially in the part dealing with Greenland and the Arctic, so that we can ensure that Greenland is heard. It is important and for the benefit of everyone that the knowledge we have helps to ensure that the money we spend on defence reaches where they can do the greatest good. We can help to do that when it comes to Greenland. We also think it is very important that Inuit Ataqatigiit be heard when Denmark, on behalf of the Kingdom community, goes to war. For us, it is really, really important that people in Greenland want peace. We would very much like to have peace, we would very much like to maintain a low-voltage area as the Arctic region is today. It is a clear goal both for Greenland, but also for Inuit Ataqatigiit, that it remains so. We have neither tradition nor a desire to intensify tension in the Arctic. That is why I also believe that the focus on defence should be not only on the civilian tasks, the societal tasks, including search and rescue, the rescue service, but also on sovereignty enforcement in Greenland. At Inuit Ataqatigiit, we also believe that it is important that we are prepared and aware of the developments in the Arctic. From Inuit Ataqatigiits side we have therefore been concerned with ensuring greater involvement of the Greenlandic population in the tasks of Arctic Command. Some of the things we, among other things... has worked for, is a voluntary response, so you make use of the many Greenlanders who are already in the fjords and who travel in the nature that we know best. Many Greenlanders have both snowmobiles and atv, and many Greenlanders really want to contribute with the knowledge they have and are already contributing to this day. Arctic Command today has very few Greenlanders employed, and we saw that from Inuit Ataqatigiits side like to change. But there is no need to introduce military service to ensure this. You can do that in other ways. Through the information days of the defense, you could help attract more Greenlanders. It is also about creating better opportunities for transport. Today 500 DKK are set aside, and if you come from Greenland, you know that it doesn't go very far if you go from Greenland to Denmark. Personally, I also believe that it is a question of building up skills that are needed in Greenland. I think it is important to stress that when you are on a mission on the ice sheet in 30 degrees frost, it cannot be compared to being on a mission on a field in Denmark. Therefore, I also believe that the efforts in Greenland and the Arctic should be targeted and developed precisely in Greenland and the Arctic. This is actually where the skills can be used, that the training should take place. So it's about the coming defence settlement, and it's about standing together to secure these things in the coming defence settlement. Inuit Ataqatigiit believes that there is a need for a debate in Greenland about the defence tasks, and that is why we have taken the initiative for an enquiry debate in Inatsisartut, which is just about how the defence should look forward in Greenland. It is important that this debate should also be held in Greenland. In addition, together with the Alternative, we have arranged a policy mike which took place in Nuuk last week, and in May we will keep the same thing in Sisimiut. This is because we think it is important to have the debate in Greenland and to hear what the people are concerned with in Greenland. In the same way, we have also had a debate on social media where we have been put in on military service. What do people really think? And we have received general input on defence. I look forward to the debate and, as I said, in Inuit Ataqatigiit we would very much like to participate in the forthcoming defence settlement that will be coming this autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425172428	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425172437	Thank you. The Greenlanders are a people who have never gone to war against another people and country. We certainly are not going to start on that either. The law on the exemption of Greenlanders from military service dates back to 1921 and was re-adopted in 1953, when it was decided that those born in the Faroe Islands or Greenland are exempt from military service as long as they do not acquire permanent homes in the rest of the Danish state. That law works well, I believe. If Denmark wishes to have military, military or war, it is their sovereign right to decide and prioritise themselves. Greenland is part of Denmark and must always have this in mind when Denmark chooses to be part of a conflict in the world where there are wars to fight. It is a reality that affects Greenland and Greenland's relations in the world. The inhabitants of Greenland are citizens of a society where citizenship is manifested in different ways and where you usually focus on the rights you as a citizen feel you have a right to. But the basic idea in this context is to manifest a bourgeoisie of this kind, which not only offers guarantees to everyone but also requires effort from each individual. This effort may be of either a military or a civilian nature, and any young man or woman in society should do his or her part. Military is a lot of things and not just war. The presence of the military in Greenland takes various forms. The American military presence is not mentioned at first in this speech, since I believe it is not part of the motion for a resolution. Having said that, I would like to say that Arctic Command has many tasks to do with us through civil service obligations. In the end, the self-governing commission's report recommended that a combination of military service and civil service should be introduced for Greenland's young people, as there is a growing desire in Greenland to share in taking personal responsibility for the future of society. That is why I believe that the pilot projects are important and the way forward for greater commitment to our social obligations. Fisheries inspection, sovereignty enforcement, the Sirius patrol and preparedness are the areas I see as areas of action for greater participation and focus. A system of voluntary civil service in close cooperation with self-government is a good initiative which in some ways supports the recommendations of the Self-Government Commission. This is what we want to see strengthened, and we want to see the pilot initiatives extended. Veterinarian duty on an equal footing with everyone else in Denmark I say no to. I do not believe that by duty today young Greenlanders should be allowed to defend Danish interests around the world when they choose to be part of a war. As I said, the present law on military service is excellent as it is. The voluntary approach to being a part of the protection today is already an option. The pilot projects involving Greenlandic young people in Arctic Commando's tasks are the way forward based on a voluntary choice. This shows the experience of the defence day in Greenland, and here I believe there is potential for further enhanced good cooperation. That Denmark, of course, informs and consults Greenland when Denmark chooses to take part in a conflict in the world, I find a natural move if you find all the citizens and authorities of the state important to inform and involve before embarking on a war on behalf of the state. I do not support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425172822	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the proposers. This is Mrs Marie Krarup, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425172841	There is military service for all men in Denmark. Danish men with permanent residence in Denmark are automatically called to the defence day the year of their 18th birthday. Men living in Greenland or the Faroe Islands, on the other hand, are not required to serve in military service. The provision that Faroese and Greenlandic men are not to serve in military service dates back to the earliest military service laws. However, a great deal has happened since then, and in recent years in particular, the two communities have seen a rapid development with autonomy and repatriation that more and more areas of responsibility. In view of this development, we in the Danish People's Party believe that it no longer makes sense that Greenlandic and Faroese men should be exempt from military service. We should now have equality in terms of military service. All three communities in the Kingdom community should be part of the defence and preparedness. Among other things, it was... highlighted by the Self-Government Commission, which in April 2003 issued a report on self-government in Greenland. The Commission wrote that a combination of military service and civil service should be introduced for Greenland's young people, as there is a growing desire in Greenland's youth to take part in taking personal responsibility for the future of society. At the same time, the Commission considered that if Greenland were to exceed the threshold of security policy to be a protectorate with home government to enter into a real partnership with Denmark, the Greenlandic people would not avoid taking co-responsibility and making their contribution to taking care of their country by introducing military service and making efforts in the field of coast guarding, patrolling in the national park and civilian preparedness. This recommendation is followed up in the Ministry of Defence's analysis on the Arctic from June 2016. The analysis indicates that there is an untapped potential for recruitment and involvement of the Greenlandic population to solve defence and emergency tasks. The analysis recommends the launch of a number of pilot projects and the establishment of various elements of defence training in Greenland. The will to participate in the defence is also present in Greenland. This is seen in the great interest that has been in Greenland to show up for the adapted version of the defence day, which has been implemented in 2015 and 2016. This analysis also applies, of course, to the Faroe Islands, although there is in fact a more widespread practice among young Faroes to travel to Denmark and take an education in defence. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland want more autonomy, and this should be a natural part of the Greenlandic and Faroese populations themselves contributing to the defence and rescue teams in their respective areas. In this context, military service is an excellent recruitment mechanism for the defence and rescue services. The 2012 merger of Greenland's Command and Faroe Islands Command to the Common Arctic Command with location in Nuuk and a connection element in Tórshavn only supports that development and shows that there is a need for people with local knowledge to contribute to the performance of defence and preparedness tasks in the two countries. The economic consequences of the proposal here are quite limited. The Secretary of Defense has estimated that it will cost about 1.5-3.6 million. kr. This amount and the debate on the details of how to implement the proposal could be included in the negotiations on the next defence settlement. I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made on this proposal. I look forward to taking it up again in the context of the negotiations on the defence settlement, but I would like to comment on what has been said by the North Atlantic Members. After all, there is an impact on Danish security policy on the Faroese and Greenlandic sides. We have exactly North Atlantic mandates here in the Things, so that we can vote on the sending of Danish contributions in military missions. So there is political influence on Denmark's security policy, and I could imagine that the Minister for Defence will also be positive about a close consultation of the North Atlantic mandates. At any rate, I myself would recommend this in relation to resolutions in the defence conciliation negotiations involving Greenlandic and Faroese territory. That would be quite natural. So if that is not already the case, we would certainly recommend it from our side. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173354	Thank you. There's a couple of questioners. The first is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173359	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. I would like to remind you that Inuit Ataqatigiit is, in fact, the only Greenlandic party represented in the Folketing, and that is why I think it would be deeply undemocratic that we should represent the entire Greenlandic population. I think that is important to bear in mind. We also believe in Inuit Ataqatigiit that for a great many young Greenlanders it would be very good to have an education in defence. I mean, there are a lot of good skills that you get with you. I also think it is important to bear in mind that those competences should focus on what is needed in Greenland, what are some competences that will be good for the future in relation to the defence tasks. It can therefore be said that one of the recommendations in the Arctic analysis was a military basic education in Greenland, and it had the defence reconciliation circle, where the Danish People's Party also participates, also up to the point. And there it was decided not to set aside any money for basic military training. So you may wonder why you want a military service, but do not want to support that there is a military basic education in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173510	As regards the fact that we should not have supported a military basic education Greenland, I would say that this is not something we have had in the negotiations, as far as I remember while I have been sitting here. I would certainly think that it could be a very good idea if there were a possibility of it in some sensible financial framework that one could also have military training in Greenland. That would be a really good idea. But I'm not gonna be smart about that anymore. But I think it is of course a problem if, as a mandate from Greenland or the Faroe Islands, one does not feel that one is representative. This is, of course, a political problem. But that is not something we can solve here. We have these mandates and they are supposed to be representative. Then there may be some special circumstances that make it sometimes not that way. But otherwise there is the possibility of influence here in the Folketing through those mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173624	We certainly also make use of the influence that we have from Inuit Ataqatigiit. I just think it is important to remind you that this is what the reality is. As far as defence training in Greenland is concerned, it is of course the case that there has been no provision for this in the defence conciliation circle. And I really think it is a good example of how much it makes sense for us to have the knowledge that we now have about what is needed in Greenland. I would also like to focus attention on the emergency training which is being set up in Greenland, and which points to voluntaryness as an opportunity to train people so that they can help support defence tasks in Greenland. We think that from Inuit Ataqatigiit is a good way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173708	Thank you. Well, well, no money has been set off yet, that's right. But that is because it has to be included or can be included in the debate on the next defence settlement. It is the case that we agree the defence budgets for five years at a time, and now this proposal comes just before a new defence settlement. There is, of course, the ulterior motive behind this that we would just like it to be taken up in the defence conciliation negotiations. So it is clear that the money has not been set aside now, but that is what we are proposing that it be. As far as volunteering is concerned, it is our experience that volunteering, both within the Home Guard and also within the field of preparedness, is very closely linked to military service, because it is very often former military service, especially in the area of military service. military personnel on standby, who have received good training, who then go out into civilian life and make themselves available in their spare time as volunteers for the Home Guard and for the preparedness. So there is a really good connection between military service and then volunteering later on. And that is one of the things we would very much like to strengthen with this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173811	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173814	I would like to start by saying that Greenlandic society and the people of Greenland are already taking an active part in many of the tasks that the Defence has in Greenland. Be it our firefighters, our police, our fishing trawlers and Air Greenland's helicopters, and those who support the defense mission in the form of SAR preparedness. So in this context, I have to say that the people of Greenland are naturally united in supporting SAR preparedness. We are not saying whose responsibility it is, because everyone is actively involved in it. That is how it is in Greenlandic reality. Having said that, I would like to ask you one of the things that you are using as an argument for the proposal, namely that Greenland wants to take back responsibility for defence in the future. What are you building on? Does the proposer think that Greenland intends to introduce military measures after the introduction of independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425173921	What I am referring to is that Greenland wants to move from being a security policy protectorate, as previously described, to being a real partner with Denmark, and thus to show that you can take more responsibility. And there is a very good idea, if you want it in practice, then also to show willingness to work to defend our common territory, and that is very topical now that it is changing so much in the Arctic, where we will have more traffic and we will have a greater risk of conflict. It is quite obvious that it would be a good area for Greenlanders and foreheads themselves to contribute more to the defence's task. I think it is fantastic that there is already a positive attitude and that there are voluntary contributions, but I have also heard people who are serving up there calling for more, such as: Greenlandic can be fluent, because communication problems can arise, especially when you cannot do so. So there is simply a need for more people who have better knowledge of the area and the culture of the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174046	We have many young people who are already active in the Arctic Command, and as we have seen in 2015 and 2016, we now see that there is an increasing interest from young people who would like to be part of the Arctic Command and participate in the tasks around us. This also means that the voluntary desire to be an active part of the defence's tasks in Greenland is already present, and it has already been said that more funds must be allocated to ensure that the increasing interest of our young people in taking an active part in the defence's tasks can be met. It already works well on a voluntary basis and as a voluntary choice to take an education in the Defence. What makes you think it's a duty to get into this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174137	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174139	It is to give all Greenlanders and Faroese the opportunity on equal terms with the Danes. They shouldn't be second class or free. They must have the same opportunity to participate as the rest of the Kingdom's population. That is what we think is a good idea in respect of Greenlanders and Faroese. They must have as much opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174206	The next question is Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174210	Thank you. I do not understand the ambition of Mrs Krarup at all. I mean, you need to use some strength on your own alert, and you have to make sure you have a proper guard, and so on. We have all the things in advance, we pay for it ourselves, we train our own people, we are also fucking skilled at it; some of the best in the North Atlantic and in the Arctic at all. I don't think we need to be part of the Danish military. But, on the other hand, we do not object at all to working with other players who are also in the North Atlantic, because these are major tasks that need to be dealt with in an emergency. And that is where I think it should be based to a large extent on the needs of the Faroe Islands and Greenland, for example. with our neighbors in Iceland. Because these are huge sea areas and challenges that we face. This requires using your head and doing things as sensibly as possible in the light of the challenges that are now in the area where we are moving. It is not a question of making it fit into some single state thinking down in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174333	I do not understand why you do not want equality if you want responsibility. Some people even dream of independence, and then I do not understand why we do not want to contribute to ensuring peace and the solution of defence in the North Atlantic. I must admit that I have no understanding of that. It is as much for the benefit and joy of the Faroe Islands as it is for the rest of the kingdom to maintain peace. So it is only Danish people's job to maintain it. This is something that Greenlanders and Faroese people should contribute to under the same conditions as Danes. And we want military service to be extended, so that means that hopefully when we get through with it, there will be more Danes, more Greenlanders and more Faroese people coming in the shirt and thus getting the opportunity to move on in the system if that is what you want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174452	After all, I have just explained that the task solution is already being carried out and carried out by the Faroese theatres, which deal with the preparedness both at sea, in the air and on land. When it comes to maintaining peace in the North Atlantic, I have to say that we have actually rarely had any Danish defence in the Faroe Islands. And at the moment, the defense is four or five people in an office in our security and rescue building. That's about what we have. There has never been a Danish defence in the Faroe Islands, which has been effective, and certainly not in Greenland either. But this is also linked to the fact that these are large areas far away, and that is why other alliances and others are being made with the neighbours, if I may say so, with the United States in Greenland and with the UK in the Faroe Islands, and it is reasonable that we should also form part of a Nordic cooperation. This is how I imagine it to be done in the most sensible way. And I think that we should, in a sensible way, take part in the work on the contribution we can make without necessarily being aggressively warring. And we can easily do that in relation to surveillance, and we can do it with search and rescue etc. So I think that is where we need to find a sensible form of cooperation. It is not a question of the compulsory printing of young fountains into military training in the Danish forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174631	The training of conscripts could easily be applied to the Faroe Islands too. There is nothing to prevent that, except that it might cost something extra. So they do not need to be trained in the Danish forests, if it should be so particularly unpleasant. There's nothing militaryly aggressive about serving in the defense. It is not called the military, it is called the defence, because that is what the defence must do. And the Faroe Islands enjoy just as much benefit from the peace that is maintained, among other things. Knows that we have armed forces. So I still just can't understand why the Faroese should be free at this time, while everyone else has to make an effort. I think it would be more dignified and more equal if all residents of the kingdom had the same obligation to the defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174732	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174750	The debate is open and we start with the tax minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425174813	Thank you, President. We are dealing here today with a resolution from the Alternative dealing with a number of tax rebates related to repair and maintenance. The alternative is to extend the life of a number of product types which, in the opinion of the alternative, are typically discarded today when only a small part of the product or functionality is defective. And that is a sympathetic idea, but the reality is that the proposed tax rebates will, to a large extent, be a saving for citizens who are already using repairs. The resolution is therefore at least in the view of the government an expensive and inappropriate solution to achieve increased consumption of repair services. In concrete terms, the alternative is to reduce VAT from 25%. 12%. on small repairs of bicycles, leather goods and textiles, including composition leather. The Danish VAT system is characterised by the fact that all goods and services are initially charged 25%. VAT. This has been maintained by successive governments, and there are many good reasons for changing governments, and I shall now turn to them. It goes without saying that a single rate VAT system rather than many different rates is easier to administer for companies and authorities. After all, it is not because we already have an uncomplicated tax system, so before you have a much more complicated VAT system, you have to think carefully about it. For example, reduced rates create. This makes it more uncertain for companies, i.e. whether their services and goods are now subject to the right VAT rate, i.e. when something is a repair and something else. It is, of course, the alternative described in the motion for a resolution, but perhaps some things could also be missing and where should they be placed? The immediate saving of a reduced rate of VAT will be reduced by the increased costs of administering reduced VAT rates. Citizens will not therefore necessarily see the VAT reduction fully applied to prices. Furthermore, a reduced VAT on small repairs is not a particularly targeted instrument for promoting more sustainable consumption, since it would actually act as a price subsidy, which is independent of whether it is actually best for the environment and the economy to repair a particular product. The alternative is also to introduce, according to the Swedish model, a tax credit for the repair and maintenance of household appliances carried out in their own homes. The government is not outside the scope of a general scheme in favour of rules which involve aid to private individuals for the purchase of repair services for a particular type of product from a specific industry, because doing so will also cause some problems. Besides, what's the difference between being able to fix your dishwasher but not your blender? So there are some problems with the resolution. Although the intentions are good, and although I personally am a great advocate of having one's things repaired instead of throwing them out, for the reasons I have mentioned here, the government cannot support the motion for a resolution to reduce VAT on small repairs of certain items such as bicycles, leather goods and textiles, nor can we support the proposal for a special increased deduction for repairing certain white goods.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175205	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. This gave rise to a single question from the author of the motion, Mr President. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175212	Thank you for your comments. Now we have to see where we land with this motion for a resolution. It does not seem that there will be a majority in favour of it. Then we'll see what we can do about it. But I would like to ask the tax minister whether it would then be possible to do something else to ensure a more circular use of the products we buy. Because that's possible. We have almost literally copied the proposal from the Swedish initiative, and some of the restrictions that may also seem a little silly in relation to which products we have included are simply due to the fact that we can see that it has gone through, also in relation to EU rules. So, if that is possible, could it be imagined that a working party could be set up in the Committee on Taxation, where we could look with support to see if we could do this in a way that is even more brilliant than I can hear the Minister of Taxation immediately think the alternative proposal is?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175315	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175317	After all, the Committee on Taxation can do what can now be achieved by a majority vote. Whether or not to do so in this area, I will leave it to the Committee on Taxation and the other rapporteurs, who have the floor after me. Then Mr. René Gade: What can you do? That's a good question. I believe that some of the things that can be done should not be done through the tax system through such targeted tax and VAT benefits as are envisaged here. Moreover, when you do this in Sweden and not in Denmark, it is because in Sweden you have a somewhat longer tradition of differentiated VAT than we have in Denmark. But what makes someone gets a bicycle repaired that they wouldn't otherwise get repaired, I think, for example. I think there are some people here at Christiansborg who offer that the bicyclesmith can come by bicycle and repair the bike while you are at work, and then you can settle off via payment service. So to support the things that are in the market and new companies that think in sustainable, circular economy, I think more is the way to go. It could then be to grant subsidies to companies of this kind. Then it's outside of my resort. However, it is a few suggestions as to what could be done as an alternative to this proposal, where we agree with the intentions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175432	Would you like another question? Yeah, here we go. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175438	I've just learned that we're gonna have to press another time if we're gonna ask again. It's done. One final question: it is said by the Minister of Taxation that it is known that it will primarily be those people or consumers who are already actually repairing their goods for one reason or another, who will also be able to use it here, i.e. understood that some citizens will not do so, and perhaps they will often be those who have not bought high-quality goods or the like. Isn't that how it's supposed to be? And can the Minister please try to elaborate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175512	It is, of course, a financial consideration. It is the way you calculate and the conditions you lay down. But at least you can't do a 1:1 relationship like that. This is a little the same explanation as the fact that it is not clear either, if a deduction is introduced for the repair of electrical appliances, that it will result in a reduction in resource consumption, since tax relief, i.e. tax relief, is usually assumed to lead to an increase in consumption, and any additional jobs in a sector are likely to merely represent a shift between sectors which will hardly affect total employment. These are some of the prerequisites that are being laid down. It may be that they are not uniquely correct 1:1, but when you run them through the calculation machine, it certainly doesn't come out as positive as the alternative would have liked. Of course, there is an opportunity to challenge that professionally if you want it in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175612	With that, we say thank you to the tax minister. The first in the line of rapporteurs is Mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425175622	Agenda on waste and recycling, resource savings, etc. I would like to say a few things, on a more general level, about the problems raised in the proposal before we go to the concrete one that has been put forward. Today, we are overburdening people with the environment and nature. Not least in the Western world, we have quite a high consumption of resources. We must take this seriously on the basis of a responsibility for our environment towards future generations. Unfortunately, we are among the countries in the world that use the most resources and produce the most waste per year. • waste which could to some extent have been avoided for the benefit of the environment, the climate and the economy. So there is no doubt that there is a great potential to reduce our use of resources. Fortunately, recycling, waste management and exploitation, water supply and plastic build-up in the oceans and other environmental problems are on the rise in many countries. In addition to our moral responsibility, there is simply more money to earn homes and jobs to create in Denmark if some of our solutions in this area turn into products and services and systems that can be used elsewhere. So we have a joint responsibility to look after our scarce resources and we need resources smarter in the future. These were also the ideas behind the vision of a Denmark without waste, which we worked for in various ways when we had government responsibility in the previous parliamentary term. The vision was to reduce waste and avoid valuable resources ending up as waste, both at home and from businesses. That is why we focused on how we could increase recycling, but also on how we prevented the creation of waste in production, on construction sites and in the textile industry, by stopping food waste and on many other points. This happened, among other things. with the very comprehensive resource strategy developed and formulated by the government at the time. Because not only is it good for the environment if we throw less away. There is also money to be saved if we can prevent the waste from arising in the first place, among other things. by designing products from the outset with fewer and fewer resources. Products designed like this can last longer and are also easier to repair and maintain. Once the products have served their military service, we must think about how we can recycle the materials in new products. So the proposal we are dealing with here seems to me to be in line with the ideas we had in the previous government in relation to the resource strategy. As has been shown, we have sympathy for the purpose of the proposal to reduce the consumption of resources. However, we just do not believe that the best way is through our VAT system or by inventing new tax deductions. It is a great strength of the Danish VAT system that it is simple. The Minister for Taxation mentioned some of the arguments before. We have very few exceptions and no differentiations in the rate. This makes it a tax source which, with a rather small loss on the way, generates a significant income to the state and thus to run the common welfare society, which we agree with the proposers in other areas to want to improve. That is why we believe that we should be very careful about tampering with the VAT screw and opening up the door to trying to achieve a wide range of different objectives by making very targeted and also complicating interventions in the VAT system. Nor have we as a party committed 200 million. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. However, it may be mentioned that, as a result of inter alia: The 2012 tax reform will be the tax on labour and therefore also to repair things continuously and will be lower in the years to come. So instead of a proposal like this, we think that the solutions rather lie in the things I tried to describe earlier, namely that we are recycling more • Fortunately, there is also much work to be done in recycling stores, more people are willing to buy second-hand items • that we sort and recycle more resources and use other waste that cannot then be recycled, as a resource in the heat supply. We need to go even further with the things that are already well under way on some points. At EU level, the proposers themselves mention in their comments on the proposal that an ecodesign directive has been adopted in 2015 which initiates initiatives in this area. Making European demands on the design and lifetime of different energy and resource-intensive products will also be much more effective than introducing a tax credit in Denmark with questionable effect. Finally, I also think there is a need for a change in culture and behaviour. In fact, I believe that the increased focus on recycling and waste sorting, etc., and the growing focus on the consequences of our consumption will contribute to an increased awareness and appreciation of quality products that last for a long time and can be repaired. So, as can be seen, we agree with the alternative that we want to take better care of the environment, nature and resources, but we cannot support the specific proposals for what the alternative has proposed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180123	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one question from Mr. René Gade, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180127	There is one question, because I would like to thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. In principle, I could have tried to make exactly the same speech, because I actually agree with everything that has been said, including that this may not be the most effective way to bring about this change. In the alternative, however, we are taking that step because we could see that it was possible to do so in Sweden. We do not really know the results of this yet, because this has only happened here in January. But it is well aware that this might happen in another way, namely that we did not use our otherwise quite okay and simple VAT system and risked further bureaucracy, but did things in a different way. My question is this: does the rapporteur not believe that we need financial incentives to create this transformation in the first place? I personally believe that the green conversion is much more interesting if there are no subsidies. But it'll be a while before we can get there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180228	Economic incentives are important and work, and that is why, on so many other points, we have taxes on various environmental and nature-laden consumption or content. We will probably continue to have that precisely on the basis of the idea of restricting their consumption. So I actually think that we, as a society, are already doing what Mr. René Gade asks in his speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180303	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180305	What I am referring to is perhaps the individual consumer. One thing is all we do in terms of legislation and the institutions, but in order to bring about that change in consumer behaviour we have at least discussed it ourselves, we need to have some nudging or some help to remember on a daily basis so that we do the right thing. Then you can disagree on what's right. But at least right here in the two rapporteurs' speeches which were held by the respect parties, we are very much in agreement on the final objective. So it is in relation to the individual consumer where I can be nervous that we will not have the desired impact unless you are very concerned about the circular economy that most Danes, after all, do not have on the agenda of everyday life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180343	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180344	As I was trying to say, today there are a number of taxes on some of the things that are straining our nature and the environment, or that give rise to a move on resources. And other things may arise where there is a need to do so. There will be, for example: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of things that have been said about the fact that this should affect the individual consumer, and there are, of course, excise duties on a number of things, which is also reflected in the price that we, as consumers, meet. It is precisely on the basis of the idea that there is a consumption we would like to limit here and a revenue for the state that we can create at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180423	With that, we thank the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180430	As has already been pointed out in the previous rapporteur's speeches, this is, of course, a proposal from the Alternative, in which, among other things, we are concerned. I would like to reduce VAT on small repairs, for example. bicycles, leather goods and textiles. That is in order for us to focus on the fact that in the society we have today, we use a great many resources, and we are also very much such a buy-out and throw-away society, and that is really a real issue. However, I would like to lay in the tail of those speakers who have already been up here and say that the message from the Danish People's Party is that we do not think that the VAT screw is the right tool to solve this problem. In addition to what has already been mentioned, it also poses a number of challenges. Among other things: If there is, of course, what is termed deadweight in tax policy, those who go ahead and get their bike patched up, it would have done no matter what, and that is why you just lose a tax revenue that you can't spend on anything else. But it is also very much about how much of your bike you can change out before it is no longer a small repair. Is that two patches on the tires? Is it if you switch to carbon wheels? Or is it if you bring the saddle pin? Or is it controlled that you change too? When is it a new bike you've got, instead of some small repairs? So it presents some challenges fiscally, which, if you have a bad aim in relation to it, you can take advantage of as a company and start billing things a little off. And maybe that's not what this is all about. And I recognise that this is also written in the motion for a resolution, in other words that there may be some inappropriate things about it here. However, from DF's point of view, we certainly do not think that the right screw to screw on is a VAT rate. It is thus positive that we have a single VAT in Denmark, that is to say that it is the same VAT rate that we have in virtually everything. The second part of the proposal is so that with a deduction you will use a different tax rate on labour costs in relation to repairs of some products according to the model of the Swedish RUT scheme. I would say that, overall, I actually find the Swedish RUT scheme very exciting. I mean, we've got together with, uh... The alternative was part of an agreement on a housing job scheme, which doesn't exactly have this element, you have some other ideas that actually go a little in the same direction, compared to trying to support with deduction. And one of the things that actually came out of the agreement on the former housing job scheme that we did just after the elections was that we started a study on the Swedish RUT scheme, and I think it is obvious that it might be examined in the committee work and that this part was also looked at. Now I do not know if it is so new that there may not have been any experience of it, but if you are still looking at the Swedish scheme in the Ministry of Taxation, it might be that you could get this part with you, so that, if nothing else, you can get any knowledge about it even though there may be some delimitation problems here too. Because, as the tax minister said, why can't you get a deduction to get your blender or your cell phone or your TV when you can get it to get your dishwasher fixed? There is also a challenge with whether it is at all appropriate when you have an old dishwasher with an e-marked D, to have it repaired, or whether it might not be better to switch to a new dishwasher with an e-marked A+. In terms of resources, it might make sense to replace it and get a newer one. So it's not quite so simple that you just say that you fix the old things. It is not certain that it is the best thing for the environment. But I want to say that overall, even though I'm not in this way of screwing up is positive with a circular economy, and I would also like to say that it's actually nice to see that it kind of blooms out there already now. There are just so many recycling shops around the country. In the area I live in, they are simply shooting up new ways of doing so, where people instead of returning to a recycling store buy a booth in a store where you sell your goods and where people can come and trade with each other. On Facebook, people are also dealing in a big way with old goods. So I actually experience that there is an incredibly great awareness in the population that you have to recycle and that you have to see if you can find someone who can use your old car seat or a worn flying suit, instead of just throwing it out and buying a new one. At least we have done a lot of things in my family ourselves and found very cheap clothes in the way that looks virtually unused. So that way it's something that actually already works super well out there in advance. In order to anticipate one of the questions that might come, that is, what could be done instead, I would like to lay a little in the tail of what Jesper Petersen said, so I think that standards will be something that could be the way forward. We already have a number of years ago, for example. a standard of what metals may be in a printed circuit board, for example, which means that you do not pollute so much. There I think we have to go into some standards on how to, for example. makes mobile phones that it should be possible to change a battery, for example, so that you don't just throw out a phone that doesn't hurt anything just because the battery is malfunctioning. This requires a great deal of international cooperation, perhaps at EU level, and also preferably between some producers and associations that join together in setting standards. I think that is the way to resolve it, because it is clear that some of the products you are getting today are so complex in general that it is almost impossible to change a small component of them. And there could be standards that are part of it. But we also think that it would be possible to build on the housing allowance that we have already looked at, and we will not deny that some things can be put into such a future model after the Swedish model. So, unfortunately, we cannot support the proposal because we do not think that the VAT screw is the right tool. However, we agree with the overall message that if you can do some things that make people recycle their things and get them passed on to some other owners instead of throwing them out, that is clearly something you should try to support. And as I also said, it sort of blooms out there today in relation to recycling shops and markets and also on Facebook, and where people otherwise shop with their stuff.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425180959	With that, we thank the rapporteur. We move on and the next one is Mrs Louise Schack Elholm from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181006	Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I fully understand the intention of the proposal. After all, many people have mentioned what this is all about: a reduction in VAT rates on small repairs and a tax credit for repairs to household appliances, and I also understand the intention to increase the lifespan of these things. You may sometimes think that it seems as if people are consuming and consuming and that you forget to repair what you are using. But now I also have an experience that it is more and more flourishing with recycling shops, shoemakers and the like, and I hope that will continue. In this way, we support the unitary VAT that we have in Denmark, in other words, that we continue to have a unitary VAT rate of 25%. Because it is very difficult to deal with it if you start to change the fact that you have a single VAT, and then you have to have all the special rules of the world, and it has high administrative costs. So we will not change the VAT system in Denmark. Nor do we have a desire here and now to change the deduction for repairs to electrical appliances. After all, we have made a deduction in relation to the housing job scheme in relation to many energy-efficient things. We fully support that. But with electrical appliances, it is not always energy efficient to repair them, just like Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær said. Sometimes it is actually better to buy something more energy efficient. And there may also be some delimitation problems in relation to it. So, on this basis, the motion for a resolution is rejected by the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181139	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181150	In the Enhedslisten we are in favour of the proposal, but also think that there are some elements in it that should be considered more thoroughly. We very much agree with the alternative of promoting an economy that is not based on use and throw away. We know, of course, that many producers of different products, such as: mobile phones, household appliances, etc. It is not an interest which the companies would then have to share widely with the rest of us, with the public. Because this means that we have too much and unnecessary overuse of earth's resources, also in relation to a wide range of scarce resources such as different types of minerals and metals. You can solve that problem in several ways. In the first place, you can set a framework for what it is like to produce and how to make sure that when it is done, for example. washing machines or other electronics are simply designed in a way that makes it easy to repair. Another way is to make it cheaper for consumers to repair the things that break. It is then in this case that we are trying to influence consumers and not those producers who are actually the source of the problem, or at least the rules relating to the production of the goods, as they are, and therefore we also think that what we should look at in the first place is the standards of how to produce things. They should be changed and regulated in a more sensible way, but we can easily follow the thinking of the proposal from the alternative. The specific proposal here then contains a large number of categories of goods which are to be subject to VAT reductions and are to be subject to deduction, and one might ask what it is then that it is precisely the product groups that are included in this proposal and not some others. In other words, one could just ask, for example. not electronics, e.g. mobile phones, music systems, televisions, computers, or anything else could be involved. Furthermore, it is also very important that, if you go this way, you are sure that you do not open up a wide-ranging abuse of the system, that is to say that you have very clear rules on what a repair is and what improvements are. We should not have a situation in which, for example, we have a situation. can buy some very cheap and scraped versions of different products and then buy additional equipment as repairs and thus make use of the scheme. It must of course be ensured that such a proposal as this is being applied to cases where the alternative is to throw things away. Then there is a question of funding and it says that it must be found in the negotiations if there is a majority in favour of this. We really see this as a proposal which, if adopted, is a proposal to sit down around a table and negotiate and talk about how to solve this problem in terms of how to make sure that you can get away from a farm and throw away culture and to a more circular economy where you use the earth's resources in the most sensible way. Moreover, it is also a way that will benefit many consumers, precisely that it will be produced in a way that will enable you to repair your things and thus spend less money and, what we have to say, get the same out of the products you buy, get some products that last longer and that can be repaired. In the end, that will also save us consumers money. So, as a starting point, we are positive, although we would like to see the proposal clarified further. You can think about it, and the alternative and Mr. René Gade wonders whether we should in fact make a report on this in committee or whether we should do some kind of committee work in the Committee on Taxation, where we are diving more into the problem in relation to how we can support a move towards a more circular economy in the field of taxation, taxation and VAT. It could also be a sensible way of using this proposal as a starting point for such a process in the Tax Committee. With those comments, I say that we are positive about the proposal and I should like to welcome from the SF and say that the SF has the same approach to the proposal as the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181625	Thank you. There is one question, Mr. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181627	I think that is an excellent idea and it is quite correctly understood. As with so many other resolutions that can be included in this Chamber, it is not necessarily because they are adopted, but it is because we would like to initiate a debate and, of course, we could hope that it was adopted, but it does not look like it. So we would certainly very much like to welcome the outstretched hand to go ahead with this in committee and perhaps have a subcommittee looking at it. So this is primarily a comment and not a question and with a line under that if we're going to have this circular transition and a circular economy, it's not just us who care most about what's going to happen, but it's just a lot of them who care less about what's going to be involved, and that's why we have to bring in more parties than just us. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181709	I fully agree with that. So there I can agree very much with Mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181718	Yes, and that consensus did not demand any more questions and answers, I understand everything. So we would like to thank the rapporteur and we have reached Mr Seligman's point of view. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425181729	Thank you for that, President. With this resolution, the alternative is to reduce VAT on small repairs on bicycles, leather goods and textiles from the current 25%. 12%. I've been thinking a little bit about what it really is that it's supposed to be 12%, so why not 8%. or 15%.? But okay, it's kind of arbitrary, and that's 12 percent, and we think that's a really bad idea. Several of the other rapporteurs have mentioned why this is a bad idea. First of all, there is the question of defining what small repairs are. In the old days people had to repair cars because there was a high limit on when to pay the registration fee again, and sometimes only the ashtray was left of the car. Everything was changed and then it was a new car, and it is administratively very, very heavy and not sensible, and it can also distort consumption towards other things, and it is not good to have a tax system which, like distorting consumption. So we cannot support that. Then the alternative also wants a tax credit on repairs and maintenance of household appliances, and it has to be 50 per cent. of the income from work, up to the maximum. 12,000 kroner. After all, it has some of the same negative effects, that is to say, distorting consumption, and there is a socio-economic loss, because many of these repairs would have been made anyway. Then we are faced with the same problems as with the housing job scheme, which we also want abolished, because it also distorts consumption. It's a really bad way to spend money. Then perhaps I am not going to be an expert on that nor am I quite sure that, what to say, the premise for the proposal is correct. As I understand it, there is, in fact, a very high level of recycling of household appliances. Well, it's not like they're just gonna be taken to the dump and not recycled, and they're just gonna be burned. That's not gonna happen. After all, they are being scrapped and the materials are being recycled to a large extent. There is a whole industry in connection with that. So I'm not sure the premise will hold when it comes to it. Furthermore, I am not sure that it would be sensible from such an environmental point of view. After all, there is a rapid development as to how energy-efficient appliances are. They are becoming more and more energy efficient. So if this means that people are holding onto less energy-efficient appliances for longer rather than replacing them with new, modern energy-efficient appliances, then I do not think that this is a sensible proposal, and that means that, overall, we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425182109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. Kristian Hegaard of the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425182117	Thank you. Thank you to the alternative for raising a debate on this important issue. It is gratifying that there are more who share the Radical Left's interest in not just the circular economy, but a circular society. It is of course a pity that, in this area, we are after Sweden when it comes to acting on the use and throwing away culture that exists. However, the government is to be commended for setting up an advisory committee, the Advisory Board, on the circular economy. We think that is extremely positive. The Radical Left hopes that the recommendations made here will be used to give a real boost to the circular economy, the circular society. It is very important that the government is acting on this very important issue of incentives to extend the use of our consumption and material goods. There is, however, a place where Radicals do not support prolonged use. One might be joking to say that Radicals would have no misgivings if the government itself were to be thrown away and choose a new culture. But joke aside. There is a need to cut back on our production of material goods, create more sustainable consumption and use fewer resources. We saw this just this morning, when we received another warning about how bad things are with the climate, poles that melt faster than originally thought. So you can ask yourself how many warnings, red lamps and worrying facts need to be given so that we really put action behind words and create circular economy and circular society. That is why we do not believe that this positive initiative alone will help to create even more sustainability. The challenges we face cannot be solved by this alone. It must be seen as one of many initiatives that can come about in order for us to move in the right sustainable and green direction. We therefore believe that it is useful to wait until the government's advisory committees have had their last meeting on 1 May so that we can draw up a comprehensive plan for a circular society instead of starting with small needle operations such as bicycle repairs and household appliances. An overall plan is urgently needed; it is the ambition of radicals that we should have it. It can bring us in front of Sweden because a sustainable transition is worth the price. That is the future, and we cannot afford not to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425182429	Thank you to the rapporteur. Let's move on. It's sir. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425182435	Thank you. Well, I would like to start by thanking the Alternative for putting forward the proposal and thereby raising an important debate on how to promote sustainable consumption in the best and most effective way possible. The purpose of the motion for a resolution is, in fact, very sympathetic, and I also think it is important that we raise a debate on how we can change that use and throw away culture, which is very prevalent. But although I find the motion for a resolution sympathetic, there is one thing that I think we should have clarified before we embark on making a differentiated VAT rate, for example. a defined area. In Denmark, we have this 25%. VAT on almost everything. It does not, of course, have to be a law of nature, but if we are to go away from it anyway, I think we should do it after very careful consideration. Because differentiated VAT will lead to greater administrative trouble in the country's businesses and with the authorities. At the same time, such a study must also include what we differentiate VAT according to and why. It is clear that the products and services covered will be all the more attractive to the consumer than those not subject to lower VAT. This is where we come to the problem of demarcation which has been mentioned earlier today. When are we talking about small repairs and when are we talking about replacement, and when is one more sustainable than the other? It is a question of whether lower VAT on the repair of a small group of products actually brings about the most effective change in consumer behaviour, or whether, as the Minister and several others have mentioned, it will only benefit consumers who are already using repairs. Finally, there is a financing requirement of 200 million. kr. Then I understand that some calculations have been made from the Swedish model. It may be that they are right, but I cannot at least say on a stand-by basis that they can be transferred immediately to Danish conditions. There may be some things that are different in Denmark than in Sweden, so the loss of revenue may be greater or less. Although this may sound a little negative, it should not be seen as such, because I think it is an important debate to have raised. However, there are some things in the proposal that make it impossible for us to back it anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425182651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. René Gade. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425182704	Thank you for that and thank you for a good debate. There was a fairly rapid picture that it will probably not be today that we will have the resolution that we have to reduce VAT on small repairs and introduce a deduction on repairs to electrical appliances. And I can actually live with that, as rapporteur, because although we think that the green transition should be really, really strong, and that Denmark should be much more a circular economy than today, and although we would like it to be even stronger, even if we are still at the forefront of many other countries, I can understand many of the arguments. I also think there are gaps in our proposal. We were aware of this from the outset, and that is why it is also a proposal that we have always thought should bring on the road improvements. It can, in principle, be introduced directly. So, we have just seen that a similar proposal has been adopted in Sweden here from January, and that is why there is nothing to prevent us from doing so. But there are some elements, as we have also mentioned in the motion for a resolution itself, concerning the possible use of the VAT reduction which might be misused by dealers. The possible bureaucracy of our VAT system, which has been mentioned by several rapporteurs, and which must inevitably be part of what we are proposing, that is to say, that we should ride with more differentiated VAT rates. In fact, we can also live with, although I can see the problem in it, because we are running with three bottom lines here in the Alternative: the economic, social and environmental, and we will have profits on them all over time. And as far as this proposal is concerned, it is clear that we are putting the environmental bottom line in the first place. We are simply investing in a future that we think is sensible. We're investing in new business models that might be brought forward by this proposal. When we want new services in the repair industry, as I think is a completely new concept, which I have just mentioned for the first time here from the platform, that could come under this legislation and benefit from it; self-employed people who could go in and come up with new initiatives; and digital services that could help support this conversion and take advantage of this deduction; well, it is clear that there will probably be some time before we see that Denmark, also financially, will benefit from this idea as a country. But we are willing to push that bottom line a few years forward if we can see on the green bottom line that the conversion takes place in a sensible way. And on the social bottom line we think it could also help a lot of people. Now they are about to find out what they really are going to do when we have a society that is increasingly digitised and when different types of jobs, as we know them, are being changed. They may not disappear, but at least they will change. Then it might be easier to go out as a self-employed person in one way or another with the help of such a proposal as this. Then I would like to address the presentations from the Enhedslisten and SF rapporteurs, who said, of course, that our proposal might be with a little fine-tuning and a little broad debate in committee and perhaps a sub-contractor could approach something that could become even more relevant for several parties to support. In addition, Mr Radicale's rapporteur mentioned the government's exciting initiative in this area, namely their advisory board, which meets again. I do not quite remember the date, I think, said on 1 May by the rapporteur. There is, as I see it, a great focus in the advisory board panel on industry and industry. It's like where the thoughts are supposed to come from. I am actually quite confident that I have great confidence in them when they develop their own services. However, I also think it is important that we, the legislators, come up with proposals on how citizens can be motivated very, very directly to make new decisions, more green decisions and more circular decisions. I'm sure it comes from the advisory board as well. However, I am confident that we will be wiser with the government's new initiative, and with the debate that has taken place in the Chamber, I believe that a little more political focus has been placed on this issue. I would say that, despite all my buts and my relativity in this speech, I understand that it is not possible to support it now and here because it is a proposal that requires a little extra foresight, because the economic bottom line may not be met until a few years from now, when it starts to be an investment in the green area, then it annoys me that we do not follow Sweden's example. Because I cannot imagine that Sweden has been blindfolded and then done this without also looking at the economics and looking forward in time and thinking: this is going to give a win for Sweden as a country forward. That is what we think in the alternative that it will also do on the economic bottom line. However, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not come up with something sensible with a few more parties, and very much on the basis of the government's presentations in the coming period. But thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183209	There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, Dansk Folkeparti, Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183214	Thank you. Sir. René Gade is a bit into touching the Swedish RUT scheme. It is, after all, a component that has been taken out of it and proposed here. We are already together on such a green housing job scheme, where it is only about climate measures, and I would really just like to ask if René Gade could not imagine that some of what was done in Denmark was that a slightly more general housing job scheme like the Swedish RUT scheme was introduced, so it was not specifically about a few products. Because that's kind of the downside of this. As the tax minister also says, you could get a deduction on repairing your washing machine, but not on repairing your blender. If you introduced a slightly more general deduction, which you have in Sweden... which we will also examine... couldn't that be the way forward instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183258	Yes, I think it is a very relevant opening, because in the alternative we are looking at the housing job scheme that is and that we are very happy to see became a greener housing job scheme when we came along and ask: should it continue? And there we are probably right now somewhere where we say: we can't put votes to it. We believe that things can be done that match our values and our policy in a better way than what we are getting out of that regime today. It was good that we were there and had it greener, but if we are going to look at a future housing job scheme that we can support, then it could be initiatives like this that could become part of it. We haven't decided yet. I talked to our financial rapporteur, Josephine Fock, about this recently, and I do not think she has decided yet, or at least said anything in public. But we're gonna have a little bit of the idea that it could be something like this. If we are to be part of a new and greener housing job scheme, it should be something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183345	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183346	Thank you. I got a little confused about the answer, because Mr. René Gade said that one could well imagine a Swedish scheme in general and that one was happy with the green housing job scheme but could not support it being extended. We would like to be included in the general system anyway. For as far as a general scheme is concerned, the old housing job scheme was also partly circular in the sense that it was thus tried to ensure that among other things. houses were renovated and thus kept a little longer. It was also something about, of course, becoming climate-friendly, as is the new system, so that you do not use so much energy. So I didn't quite realize that, and it might be because you haven't clarified it in your party yourself yet whether you want to participate in a new housing job scheme or whether you don't want to participate in a new housing job scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183431	That is quite correct. That is because we are not clear about it yet. As it stands right now, we cannot be part of a new housing job scheme. We certainly have. But depending on what is put in it, we cannot reject it if it becomes as green and as sensible and as socially as we would like. There are some challenges in a housing job scheme, it may hit awkwardly. It was also one of our anchors when we made the deal at the time. Well, if it gets interesting enough, we're always ready. However, as things look right now, I think we are getting more out of spending the money that should be invested in such a scheme, elsewhere, also because the growth that we want to help to set in motion in this sustainable area, we do not see right now best coming from the housing job scheme. But it may change if the package to which we are going to say yes becomes interesting enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183517	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Taxation. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170425183534	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 26 April 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
