ParlaMint-DK_20170509130021	The meeting is open. Today there is the following review: Marcus Knuth (V), Karin Gaardsted (S), Henrik Brodersen (DF), Christian Juhl (EL), Carsten Bach (LA), Roge Matthise (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV), Karsten Hønge (SF), Merete Scheelsbeck (KF), Aaja Chemnitz Larsen (IA), Magni Arge (T), Sjúrður Skaale (JF) and Hammond Aleqa (UFG) and others.: Question No. F 57 (What can the Prime Minister tell us about the opportunities and challenges of the Kingdom Community as a follow-up to his statement on the Commonwealth 2017?). The title of the notified case will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). Members of the Folketing Pernille Skipper (EL) and others I have been informed that they wish to withdraw the following proposals: proposal for a Parliament resolution on the drafting of a new paragraph in the criminal code on digital sexual abuse B 109). Does anyone wish to include this motion for a resolution? As this is not the case, the proposal has lapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130138	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 100 by Jakob Ellemann-Jensen-Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Nase Khader (KF). A vote can be taken. For 40 votes (V, LA, RV and KF), 65 abstentions (S, DF, EL and SF), 6 abstentions (ALT). Proposal for adoption No The V 100 has been rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 97 by Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV), Johanne Schmidt-Schmidt-Nielsen (EL), Josephine Fock (ALT) and Jacob Mark (SF). The vote is over. In favour of 25 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 86 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 97 is rejected. The vote will then be taken on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 98 by Mattia Tesfaye (S). The vote is over. In favour of 30 (S), against 78 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 98 is rejected. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) V 99 by Martin Henriksen (DF). The vote is over. In favour 22 (DF), against 88 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 99 is rejected. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130443	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 94 by Erik Christensen (S), Jacob Jensen (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Anders Johansson (KF). The vote is over. In favour 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. Proposal for adoption No V 94 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 95 by René Christensen (DF) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF) and proposals for adoption no. V 96 of Pernille Schnoor (ALT) and Stine Brix (EL) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130620	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130624	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 88 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) voted against 12 (ALT and RV), abstentions 9 (EL). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130722	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130727	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote will end. In favour 102 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 9 (EL), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130806	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130812	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 112 (S, V, DF, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted [against 0 abstentions]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130848	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130854	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 111 (S, V, DF, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted [against 0 abstentions]. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130934	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509130940	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 90 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF and 1 DF (by mistake)), against 21 (DF), [no votes in favour or against]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131021	The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131033	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (EL), joined by a minority (ALT and SF). The vote is over. In favour of 19 (EL, ALT and SF), against 92 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The amendment has been rejected. That is why we are voting against the motion for a resolution. 1 and 3, in the case of the same minorities, shall cease to exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131118	The debate is now about the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the proposal? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131125	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of voting 112 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF, KF), [against 0 abstentions], 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131207	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131211	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131255	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131301	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF) voted against 25 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131345	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131353	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 89 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 22 (DF), [no votes for or against 0]. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131441	I should like to give the floor to Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131446	Thank you. Monday last week it was 1 May, and it was a very good day for the Danish working class, because all parties here in the Danish Parliament were falling over each other to call themselves a working party. Even the Liberal Alliance was there. That was really good. As early as Wednesday last week, when we had to deal with the proposal from the Enhedslisten that we are going to vote on here, it turned out that only the SF and Enhedslist supported the proposal. What's this about? Yes, it's all about these senior days, namely that it was agreed during the renewal of the agreement that 32 senior days can be saved in the last 3 years up to the retirement age. That's a really good idea. The only problem has been that if you use the pension payment to finance these days off, it will lead to a set-off in the early retirement premium. And at worst this could mean that if you take advantage of almost all the days off, it will cost twice the pre-retirement premium, i.e. more than DKK 26,000. We wanted to help to rectify this, and that is why we tabled this motion for a resolution which was then before the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on Wednesday morning. Unfortunately, however, we had to see that only the SF supported it. The minister rejected it. He said he didn't plan on doing that. He would like at a later stage to call the parties and talk about the issue and all sorts of others who had to deal with interplay problems in relation to pensions, but here and now he did not want to solve the problem. There, of course, you can say, like the Minister, that this is not a problem he has created, because he is quite right about that. One might also say that we were some who were not aware that it was a rule that was made already in 2012. The Minister is quite right about that too. We should have been aware of that then and tried to correct it. The only problem is that it does not solve the challenge we have been given, which in practice will mean that people saving up for the pre-retirement premium will probably estimate that it will be so expensive to keep the senior days off that they do not. And that is why we are all in favour of a common intention that everyone has, namely that it should then be as advantageous as possible for seniors to remain in the labour market. Unfortunately, I also had to see to my disappointment and astonishment that the Social Democratic Party would not support the proposal either, so perhaps one should just conclude that the fact that you are a working party is something that appears in action, for example. In a moment, when we are going to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131732	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131739	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 13 (EL and SF), against 98 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF), [no votes for or against 0]. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131830	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131835	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (SF), joined by a minority (EL and ALT). The vote is over. In favour 20 (EL, ALT, SF and 1 DF (by mistake)) voted against 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), [no votes in favour or against]. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 3-5, elected by the committee? They are adopted. I propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509131949	Even if the vote does not take place immediately, there must be silence in the Chamber. It's gotta be quiet in the hall when you go out. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132023	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (DF), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. The bill referred to in A is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on carbon dioxide tax for certain energy products, the law on equations, the VAT law, the law on registration fees, the Customs Code and various other laws. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Amendment No 2 and Amendment No 3 were adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 4 or on Amendment No 4, adopted by a majority (the committee with the exception of EL), or by a majority of its members. 5 and 6 members of the Committee? They are adopted. The bill referred to in B is then put to the vote [Proposal for a law amending the law on equations]. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7 of a minority (DF), elected by a majority (other committee)? It's agreed. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132135	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132141	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 by a minority (SF), joined by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? Sharing of the bill in two legislative proposals has been adopted. I propose that the legislative proposals go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee and, if no one objects, I consider this to be adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132222	The debate is open. This is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132231	It is quite unreasonable when criminal bikers and gangs think they have to rule and decide in our society; when they pervert the law over and over again when they threaten homeless people, blackmail businessmen, shoot in the streets and create insecurity. Unfortunately, last year we saw a large increase in the number of shootings in the biker and gang environments in Odense, in the Copenhagen area, in South Zealand and in several other places. We saw the conflicts between the groupings escalating, and we saw how ordinary Danes experienced insecurity. An innocent was even hit by gunshots, several bikers and gang members lost their lives. Of course, that's not gonna work. Therefore, at the end of 2016 we had a question debate here in the Parliamentary Chamber, which ended with a vote. It was a decision which instructed the government to call for negotiations on a new biker and gang package. That is the background to the draft law that we are discussing in the Parliamentary Chamber here today. The bill thus implements parts of the political agreement reached between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party on 24 March 2017, about what is popularly called gang package III. The bill contains several amendments to the criminal code, the law on the enforcement of penalties and the law on the prohibition of residence in certain properties and a number of other matters. In particular, I would like to highlight the changes to the rules on parole for persons convicted under Article 81a of the Criminal Code. This will mean that bikers and gang criminals cannot be paroled unless they choose to go on exits. We are also tightening up the penalties for participating in biker and gang-related conflicts and for using firearms in public spaces. As I and Social Democratic rapporteurs have said over and over again before me, punishment can never stand alone. There is no point in raising the penalties to infinity if the police's tools do not go along at the same time. The bill here will make it easier for the authorities to monitor and intercept telephone calls and letters to and from an inmate that the police consider to have a leading role in the biker and gang environment. In Odense we have seen that blackmail and threats have become part of the methods of criminal groups. Many have heard about how both homeless, vulnerable and traders such as tattooists have been blackmailed. This is obviously not fair or acceptable, and that is why we are increasing the penalties for systematic blackmail, such as the death penalty. in the case of a claim for protection. In this context, I would like to make it clear that, in addition to the proposals we are discussing here today, we also need to help the victims better. That is why it is the Socialist call for us to start work on a sacrificial package to ensure much better protection for the witnesses and, above all, help for them. I should like to mention in particular that we in the Socialist Group are very concerned about preventing crime. These are good, solid tools that we are adopting here. They're necessary, and they're right. However, prevention is and remains the best investment, and that is why we are looking forward to the negotiations on a new prevention effort. With the two clear calls to the Minister for Justice and to the other parties of the Danish Parliament for a sacrificial package and a new prevention strategy, I have to say that we in the Social Democratic Party support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132616	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132624	This bill will mean that if you are to have the possibility of parole, there will be a requirement to participate in an exit program. And I feel that way, and in the Enhedslisten we feel that it is very unfortunate that we go in and restrict the possibility of parole. It is not because we think it is a pity for bikers or gang members, it is simply because parole is a central rehabilitation tool. If we reduce the possibility of rehabilitation, we will have more and not less crime. Will the rapporteur not admit here from Parliament's platform that that part of the bill will simply lead to more and not less crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132710	It is, of course, originally a socialist proposal. We presented it in late summer and received very rapid support for the proposal here. That's why we're glad it's in this rocker gang package. It's true that parole is part of rehabilitation, but the problem with these bikers and gang members is that they've written it standing down some of them even in the forehead that they want to go out and commit crime again. Several of them say directly: As soon as I get out, I must be absolutely as criminal as I was before I came in. That is why we do not think it is fair that we should be on parole early. When you commit biker and gang crime, when you choose not to leave the biker or gang group you are part of, we think it is quite reasonable that you sit time out according to the judgment you have received.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132757	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132759	Today it is the case that if the Department of Justice considers that you go out directly and commit new crimes, you will not be granted parole. If you in prison cause trouble or behave in a wrong way that does not support the rehabilitation work, then there is no parole. There have been plenty of tightening of the rules of parole in recent years. So that's a wrong picture, Mrs. Trine Bramsen like drawing here, namely that parole is something you just pull in a vending machine. It's not. It is about resocializing work in the form of parole being something you do when it makes sense, and that is something that benefits us as citizens of society. Because if there is no possibility of parole, people just end up with the whole punishment, and then they get free without us having any hand in the way they behave or under what conditions they get out of prisons.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132850	When it comes to biker and gang groups, we disagree with that reasoning. We think it is reasonable that, when you belong to a criminal group, when you are convicted of biker-gang-related crime, and that is the group that this is about, you cannot be paroled unless you say that you want to be part of an exit program and thus also signal that you want to leave.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132924	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509132934	Thank you. Today is a very good day, and it is because we are now starting to deal with the first part of the biker gang package that we in the Danish People's Party have agreed on together with the government and the Social Democratic Party. It was a little slow to get started. Last year we saw a series of shootings in public space, we saw serious gang-related crime, and we saw a flare of crime in this deep criminal environment. We subsequently had a question debate in the Danish Parliament, and immediately after that debate, the cases got under way. I have to give it to the government. Negotiations were opened up, and quite quickly after that we have reached a very, very good agreement, I think, on a biker gang package with many strong initiatives that can take action against hardened criminals who are part of a biker group or a gang group. We should act, and we have done so. The elements of the proposal here speak their clear language about which way we want to go. We've tightened up considerably with the possibility of parole for bikers and gang members. That's good. We've extended the gang code. That's reasonable. We're sharpening the penalty for systematic blackmail... something that's really been needed... and that's been in demand... a lot of places where we've seen this crime sprout. We're giving the police better opportunities to keep up. We are narrowing the possibility of visiting during conflicts and we are launching a new experiment with an ankle bracelet scheme, so that in the future we will probably be able to keep even better track of where these people are. It's good, it's strong elements. I think we have reason to be very positive about this package, and I can just say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133125	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133130	If we want to fight biker gang crime, shouldn't we do what works? One of the things we know to work is precisely the rehabilitation work, where parole is also a central tool. But this bill follows on from the biker gang package, which will mean that the possibility of parole will be reduced. How does the rapporteur feel about the fact that the package in this area will actually lead to more and not less crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133200	I'm going to say to Mr. Knox. Rune Lund, that we are talking about people shooting in our streets who are committing the most blunt form of crime one can imagine. In that scenario, we legislators have two options. We can choose to let go, or we can choose to put them in prison. I prefer the last solution, preferably for a very long time, because after all, we know where we have these people. If it should happen one day that you want to stop being a criminal, seek a life without crime, then society is at your disposal. But I'm not going to accept people shooting in our streets getting away with low penalties. If you commit such serious forms of crime that it endangers the lives and safety of other people, you must be punished. You have to be severely punished. I hope that with this package we can make sure that these people feel the consequences of what they are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133253	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133254	I also think we should punish people who commit blunt crime harshly. I think we should go hard on bikers and gangs. But I simply cannot see the reason why we are going in and destroying the rehabilitation work. Because, yes, it's dumb-ass crime that's being committed, but even the people who commit this blunted crime are not out of reach. We can see that, both within the biker environment and within the gang environment, there is a huge flow of people who leave the environment and are interested in living their lives differently after a few years in the environment. And then there is the question of us helping those who want to get out of the environment in every way possible. I simply do not see the sense in this bill adopting something that leads to more and not less crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133338	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133339	I think the last thing that's being said is quite a postulate. I will be very happy if people who are deep criminals want to leave their crime and become obedient citizens. I think that is a good thing. But then you have a series of options for it. It's not like we punch people in the forehead and say, "You're a criminal for the rest of your life." That's not gonna happen. You have some opportunities you can accept if you want to, if you want to become a contributing, active citizen. So it's not a question of us branding people for the rest of our lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133413	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133422	Thank you. In the past year we have seen an enormous increase in the number of shootings and gang-related activities here in Denmark. Innocent Danes have been hit. Many bikers and gang members have been killed. We can see that the government is acting. It does this because the situation is totally unacceptable. The government and the conciliation parties have made an excellent biker gang deal. The legislative proposal we have before us today is the implementation of part of the agreement. The bill implies that the gang members have mentioned it before me, so I have to go through it quickly and tighten up the rules for paroleing gang members, namely the gang members who have been convicted in the most severe circumstances. They have been convicted under Article 81a as a participant in a real gang dispute. If they are to be paroled, and I can just stress that they, like others who are to be paroled, have no claim to that, a recommendation assessment must be carried out. In this context, therefore, we are calling for the bill to take part in an exit process. I don't think it's a fantastic double sentence to have to participate in an exit process. It's not a torture room you let into, I can say. Another element is that the penalty for shooting in public spaces increases by 50%. The penalty for extortion, protection money increases by 33 per cent. We have seen terrible examples in Odense, where brave people have dared to come forward and make sure that these conditions were clarified. We'll do what we can from here. We're gonna increase the penalty by 33 percent. One or more persons may be more easily prohibited from staying in a biker castle, and during biker conflicts, bikers may be more easily excluded from visiting friends. If you are a gangster, you should not be able to receive unsupervised visits or other forms of unsupervised communication. Finally, in terms of parole, a GPS foot bracelet can be attached as terms of parole, so that you can control where they go during parole and possibly also during exit. Summa summarum I think these are some excellent measures that we have so much needed and which, as I have said, are now being taken care of. We are missing the chapter called prevention. I have noted that the Minister for Justice has announced that we will see a young effort package before the summer break, and I look forward to that as well. But this is certainly a good start in relation to the society's alleralds of criminals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133727	Thank you. And Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133732	But even the worst and most serious criminals in society can come to their senses. We can see this from figures from the Ministry of Justice's own research office, which shows that of all 3.332 bikers and gang members registered by the police in 2009, it is across groups under one third that continue to be registered in 2016, i.e. less than one third. That's a good thing. That's good. But it also shows that there are other ways of getting out of a criminal environment than through an exit program. And is it not, therefore, extremely unfortunate that this bill goes in and destroys the possibility of parole when we know that it is an absolutely central rehabilitation tool?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133821	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133822	Thank you. It is quite correct, as the questioner has indicated, that thank God there has been a large drop in the number of registered bikers and gang members. I believe that we owe most of our thanks to the police for having concentrated to such an extent and carried out what is needed in these areas in relation to systematic surveillance and other investigative measures. It has actually scared a lot of people away from trying on this track. But those who, despite the police's preventive action, despite the police's attempts to solve the crimes, end up in prison, yes, about them I must say that we give them the luxury that they can be paroled, but that is on a slightly different basis. I can't believe it when Mr. Knox... Rune Lund makes it as if it's an extra punishment you get. I think it's a luxury that you can be paroled today as the worst criminal ever.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133926	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509133928	Actually, I don't think it's about luxury or not luxury. It is about the fact that when people are on parole, we have the opportunity to impose conditions on the terms of parole in terms of education, jobs, whom you must be with, who you cannot be with, etc. etc., something that is based on the specific person, something that the Department of Criminal Services is going in and assessing. If we just let people sit down, they'll be free at some point, and they can do whatever they want. Then we have no handle at all to be able to seriously influence them in that direction, for example. a parole would be a key tool for doing so, and that would create more and not less crime. The rapporteur must at least admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134011	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134013	Sir. Rune Lund always has such good endings to his questions where the rapporteur is told what he can answer. No, the rapporteur cannot at least admit that, I can say, because the relationship is that we are demanding a parole. We can make demands if you've been convicted after the gang order. There aren't many of them. But if you have been judged by the strictest order, yes, it is extremely demanding, then the terrible demands that the Danish Parliament makes, namely that you have to participate in something as terrible as an exit programme. In other words, our Lord, it was the least we could be obliged to take part in. And in some other way, as Rune Lund says, you can set terms for parole, and you can do that after this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134052	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134111	In the Enhedslisten we want to go hard on organized crime. We have nothing left for bikers and gang members who terrorize their local environment; who beat vulnerable people to their cash assistance at the beginning of the month; who blackmail tattooers and are otherwise involved in deep criminal activities. We also want to do what works, what has an effect, and what enables us to combat organised crime, while defending our fundamental freedoms in a democratic society. After all, this bill implements parts of the political agreement concluded between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, the so-called gang package III, and the bill contains several elements. The first element that we have already discussed a little is changes in the rules on parole for persons convicted under section 81a of the Criminal Code. There are several consultation responses that mention problems related to that part of the bill. Firstly, it is stated that it is unclear what is really meant by an exit programme. What is it anyway? The National Association of Municipalities notes that there is a need to clarify and define what an exit programme entails and to clarify when the participant has fulfilled the requirement to participate. For as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen was up to say: Well how hard can it be to participate in the exit program? Yes, it may not be, if it can be defined in a hundred and seventeen different ways, it just is not clear exactly how an exit program should be understood, with the bill that lies here. The Legal Policy Association notes that a requirement for participation in the exit programme may be reasonable in many, but probably not in all cases, and they believe that there is rubber band in this and that it is legally questionable. In their reply to the hearing, the Lawyers' Council states that it is unfortunate, in relation to the provisions on participation in the exit programme, that there is legislation on intrusive consequences for infringement of some rules whose content is currently in force. is unknown or uncertain and must be regulated by an order which, by its very nature, can not enter into force at the earliest in connection with the law. So: Embossed by uncertainty combined with the fact that reducing the possibility of access to parole everything else equal will lead to fewer tools in resocializing work, and that again everything else equal will lead to more and not less crime. And it's interesting that you make a gang package that looks up that now you have to go hard to bikers and gangs and that it's the Justice Minister's iron fist that's going to get started here, but then you're doing something in this bill that simply means that resocializing work gets worse conditions and it's going to cause more crime. Then there is a whole series of sharpenings. There is an amendment to Article 81a of the Penal Code, which extends the provision to offences suitable for causing a conflict between groups of persons using firearms in the context of the conflict. So the authority to provoke a conflict is very unclear what exactly it will be in practice, but it may in fact reflect that this paragraph has been used incredibly little and in very few cases in recent years. The penalty for using firearms in public space will be set up. There is an increase in the penalty for systematic blackmail. None of those things make sense. Everyone can tell themselves that you should not shoot in public space, that you should not blackmail, but where is the proven effect that this will have a preventive effect on the fight against crime? It's nowhere. And the research results, which are also from the Ministry of Justice's Research Office, point in that direction too. It may sound awesome to say punishment increases, penalty increases, but there is no proven effect that punishment with punishment leads to less crime. One looks as though one is able to act, but it will not have an effect in the real world. At Enhedslisten we have the feeling that we would like to discuss higher penalties, we would like to do so, but we would also like to see that there is a preventive effect, that the punishments lead to less crime, and that evidence is simply absent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134552	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134608	Thank you, President. When, in just a year, you experience a triple in the number of gang- and biker-related shootings, we as legislators need to intervene. I am very pleased that we are now doing this with gang package III, of which this bill is intended to implement parts. Part of the gang package means that bikers and gang members cannot be paroled unless they start in an exit program. It does not make sense to send hard-boiled criminals directly back to the environment they came from. It is therefore very good that they are now being given an additional incentive to break out of their biker club or gang. We also introduce a reinforced visitor control for gang members and bikers so that they cannot continue to coordinate their criminal acts while they are in prison. Finally, we are sharpening the penalty for shooting in public spaces quite significantly, so that it will now be possible to impose penalties which are up to 50%. higher. Thus we send a clear signal to those bikers and gang members who spread so much insecurity by recklessly shooting in the streets around us, that we simply will not tolerate it. It has a serious consequence when you brutally take innocent people hostage in your internal gang conflicts. All in all, these are measures that hit hard on the hard-boiled criminals who spread fear and insecurity among ordinary citizens. The Liberal Alliance supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134732	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509134747	Thank you. The government wants this bill to contain, among other things. the increase in shooting episodes that we saw in 2016. There were 54 shootings in 2016, which is more than a triple compared to 2015. We share in the alternative the desire to get rid of this problem, of course we do. In fact, we also share the praise of the Crime Prevention Council for the government's focus on preventing biker-gang crime, among other things. by offering exit programs. We also believe that the principle of participation in an exit programme in order to obtain parole in itself is not the biggest problem. The problem with this bill is that we find it very difficult to see where the inmates who are being served have any form of participation in terms of being able to get their expression, their wishes, their internal motivation in relation to what sort of exit programmes they would like to participate in. Now it sounds like it's just gonna be such a rooftop table. It is not necessarily necessary, but I think that we all know that if you are imposed on something and perhaps especially if you are in the group of people who are not those who have a tradition of doing as it is said, or those who in themselves may have worked against authorities, it is not always a success. On the contrary, it is often what does not end in success. By the way, I was with the Minister's own party friend, Mrs Mette Abildgaard, in Far from Castle. We were out doing footage a few weeks ago, and it was interesting. We met both with a former burglar who had spent 14 years in prison, and we also met a person who had committed a lot of violent crime, who had also spent 14 years in prison, or he had shown himself even longer in prison, and it was quite clear that both their stories pointed out that the influence on what it is that can get one out of this environment, get one into another path, comes from within. It's no use being imposed on you. It was only to the extent that they were actually allowed to help determine what could make them leave the environment that it made a difference. So we don't believe it's gonna help with these scheduled exit programs. We would like the inmates to have an opportunity to influence them. In relation to systematic organised blackmail, I would say that we believe that this is as big a problem as the government does. It is actually a really, really big problem, and it is extremely unsympathetic that you go out and blackmail money from, among others. economic operators in one's local area. Does it help to threaten with higher sentences? It is probably not exactly the segment that is being helped by being threatened with higher penalties. Actually, I'm just seeing The Godfather with my kids. We're only halfway through the second movie. It's a long movie, but I just got to think about it because we were watching it this weekend, and I know it's just a movie, but it's a very good example that it's probably not exactly the types who wouldn't go out and collect these protection money if it was that they were told that we're standing and threatening to increase the penalty. We would rather put in place a number of other methods: increased presence of police in the neighbourhood, so that it provides the security and security needed; social action; internal organisation of businessmen, like neighbouring aid etc. So there are other measures that we believe in would help much more, because we fully agree that this is a major problem. The provisions of the proposal to limit visits etc. We are sceptical of those with leading or coordinating roles in the biker gang environment. It is uncertain what power the police are being endowed with. It is a very discretionary power, the elasticity is very wide. When do you become a leading gang member? When is it related to the environment? We are simply concerned about the legal certainty of the prisoners, to the extent that these powers are so based on police judgement. We are also concerned about the possibility of redress if it is to be deprived of visiting opportunities. So I can say that we are not voting for the bill. We agree that there is a problem and we would also have liked to have been involved in solving it, but there are elements in this which, in principle, are so far from the place where we stand, in terms of how we believe in, in other words actually believe in what would help to meet those challenges. That is why we cannot vote in favour. Nor would we be able to vote in favour of a legislative proposal that is thus financed through the urban development pool and through new rules for the recovery of child and youth benefits, so we are hitting some people with this bill in relation to the funding of what has in no way deserved it. So the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135242	We have just one comment to make. It's from Mrs. Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135246	Yes, I have just two questions for the rapporteur. The rapporteur says that a injunction does not help anything, that it simply does not work, but if you cannot impose something on people, what should you do? If there is not to be a sanction or a consequence and thus a charge if people break the law, what should you do? The second question concerns this issue of blackmail, where the rapporteur says that it does not help with punishment, but that there must be increased police presence. But if the police do not have a sanction, that is, if there is no consequence, and you have to understand that the alternative is against, what should the police do? Because it is precisely with the consequences in hand that you can stop those who blackmail. So how does the alternative want the consequences to be and that this thing with the charge should be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135344	Thank you. In relation to the issue of imposing something, we are not against the fact that something is being imposed, and I think I said that too. And then to nuance it: we are not in fact opposed to having to go through an exit programme, but we just want one to have participation in what it is then for a programme one has to go through, because we simply do not believe that if we pull something down over the heads of people • a box, a framework that is narrowly defined • that one will then in any way succeed with it. We believe that the probability of it is small. I miss the fact that the draft law describes the involvement of the inmates in the design of exit programmes. That's one. Then, on the other hand, on sanctions. It is already illegal, I was saying, to recover protection money, so it is not, of course, because we do not want there to be sanctions; it is already there; you can indict someone who withdraws protection money; but to threaten with a higher penalty we just don't think we are helping. So we just want the police to be more present in the neighbourhood, because it also provides local protection.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135441	Mrs. Trine Bramsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135442	Yesterday I met some of those who have testified in the recent case of blackmail, and I just have to say that to them it actually meant something that we are now raising the penalty in the Folketing. Because they certainly do not experience that they have become happy by having contributed to a case where some have created enormous insecurity in the local business community by blackmailing and threatening, actually ended up with a verdict. They were very pleased with a tougher sanction for this. Doesn't the alternative mean that it actually makes a difference that these people are being removed from the street for a while, even for the victims?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135528	We always believe that we must take account of the victims and take account of the concerns of the victims. All we have to do is keep it up against what we think works best. There is again the classic dilemma. If the victim has a need for higher penalties, then we have to keep it up against whether the evidence indicates that it works, and there's just nothing that does. Now I am missing in this area, and we were actually asking for it internally in my group when we looked at this bill, some evidence that it would seem to be raising the penalty compared to this recovery of protection money. We have not been able to find that anywhere, and then it can be difficult to go out and say yes to something that we simply cannot see evidence of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135613	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stamp, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509135622	It has become a classic to have these very diverse, fragmented legislative proposals in the area of justice. I know that this relates to the gang package, but it is very many different initiatives that we have to deal with in one legislative proposal. It is a recurring problem and we mention it every time, but it is actually as if the Ministry of Justice is not really going to listen. And I think perhaps the Minister should take it home and think about whether it is appropriate for us to deal with it this way, because that is quite a lot of changes. They are also quite fundamental and give rise to a lot of discussion. It's really hard to give them proper treatment when they're together like this, even if they're part of a whole gang package, and that also affects our review. This also affects my rapporteur's speech. I would like to look at some of the points, but I do not think I can reach them all. I would say that I think there is a common denominator for several of the points, even when you go through the consultation answers, namely that many of the consultation answers are not negative about going that way. But it is said that it requires clarification, that is, that if the initiative is not implemented in an appropriate way, it is not certain that it will work. One can also be afraid that it violates legal certainty if it is not clarified. That is why it is a comment which I think the Ministry of Justice should take along and which in fact relates to several of the points. This is true, for example. in connection with the definition of these exit programmes. Now I will already be revealing that I cannot give a 'yes' or 'no' today, because some of it will also depend on the committee procedure. However, we can agree to the idea of making a parole conditional upon participation in an exit programme, although we also share the concern raised by Enhedslisten, namely that those who say no should be refused parole. And that means, of course, that we cannot determine their first time in freedom. Well, a parole isn't just a reward. It is also a guarantee that in the first time, when a person who has served a sentence is once again out on freedom, he is on a short leash. You don't have that if you can't use the parole anymore. That is why we certainly also have concerns about those who do not participate in an exit programme. Is there really a risk that they will become even harder bandits and that we will have even fewer opportunities to work with prevention for them? So it is desirable to clarify what is included in these exit programmes, as has also been mentioned in several parts of the consultation answers: what requirements can be made? What are some reasonable requirements? What are the appropriate requirements? We could use a few more words on that. Then there's an extension of the gang section again. I need some examples. What kind of crime is it that is capable of creating conflict? Is this violent crime? Or is it also a thoughtful example if you sell hashish and there are some others with which you are then in competition, who also do so, and then it can lead to a violent conflict, or what? I just need a few more words about what you really mean here. In relation to the punishments for shooting in public spaces, blackmail and protection money, I would say that it seems fair, but again: is it useful? So, these are the two perspectives that we have to keep in mind and that have been mentioned by many before me: one thing is whether it feels fair to increase the penalty it may be, it does so but is it useful? Moreover, I think it is a little abstract that the penalty should be increased by 50%, i.e. half, because at the same time one wonders: how many people actually know how much is being paid for blackmail? Well, how many people would be able to answer if you asked them on the street: How many years do you get? Yes, I would not be able to do so, which is why it is rather abstract to say that my sense of justice should have been met if the penalty was raised by 50%. Well, what's the starting point? That is why I think it is a rather abstract discussion, which may in fact be the main reason for the fact that there are some parties that need to go out and say: we have now increased the penalty by 50%. But what was it before, and is there any point in prolonging it? Well, does that reduce the risk of people falling back into crime? And you can say that is our main resistance or our main concern in relation to this proposal, namely whether it really works the opposite, that is to say about everything we do to increase justice, because we need to take out the iron fist and beat the table, in fact will lead to more victims because the environment is becoming more hardened. Some may respond positively to these incentives, but some may also go into the opposite ditch and become even more hardened. Or maybe there are some of the smart gang members who make sure that it is some of the less clever who do some of the things that allow you to go to prison for a very long time. And does it make them more or less criminal? So if it is the 17-year-old little brother or the 16-year-old little brother who is responsible for the things that the slightly smarter big brother well knows lead to a really long prison sentence? So do you make this little brother more or less a criminal by saying he's the one who's going to jail for a long time? I doubt it. But that is the doubts we want to have, including in the committee procedure, and that is why I cannot give a definite 'yes' or 'no' today. Moreover, the doubt also applies to the point of cutting inmates from the right to visit and the control of visits, where there are also several consultation responses that call for clarification. And we would also like to ask for a greater degree of clarification.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509140223	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509140243	As has already been mentioned, we first process part of the biker gang package that the government has made together with DF and Social Democracy. There are a number of elements in this package that I will discuss at least some of them. I should first like to say something about prevention. I usually do that when we have these discussions. I know that it is perhaps not modern or on the Minister's agenda that this is something that needs to be discussed. It's like you think these hardened biker types are born so that from day one they're hardened biker types. It is as if there has not been a process at all where one could have said: we could have set in here or we could have set in there. Most people don't get into this environment either and wear back marks from the start; they just have to earn it, so to speak, by being water carriers, guards, etc. I just have to repeat once again, also to the Minister, that I think it irresponsible not to think prevention into this. We can punish enough, but if an attack has first been committed against an ordinary citizen, if you have first been blackmailed or experienced shootings in your street, then the damage has been done. It's a total lack of focus on how to avoid some of these things. I think that is simply a matter of criticism. But that certainly does not come as a surprise to the Minister, because I say it every time, and it is also referred to every time that we have to discuss juvenile delinquency at some point. As some of my colleagues have mentioned, one of the elements of the proposal is exit programmes and, as my colleague from the Enhedslisten also mentioned, the question is: what is an exit programme? When we were over and negotiating, there were several parties who were very concerned about improving the exit programmes. At least we were on the part of the SF, because there have been examples that we have to wait a very long time or that there are not enough resources to make it satisfactory. We're not gonna get enough people out of this environment if they, for example. must wait 1 year to join a program. The Minister also seemed to be in favour of ensuring better quality in these exit programmes. But now that I am looking at the bill, I can see that it says that it will be looked at administratively and so on. There is not, in this way, a firm model for how this is to happen. We are very concerned about this in the SF, and that is why we will also allow ourselves to make some proposals during the committee procedure. We will also be tabling an amendment to look at Sweden and set up these special exit sections in prisons, unless the parties to the agreement themselves now consider this to be a good idea. The prisons are a tough environment, and if you want to get out of the biker environment, it's hard if you go up and down those you already know. And in Sweden, they are successful. So this is something that we will address in committee. Then there is also the question of GPS foot bracelets. Here, too, we would very much like to call for it to be put into a framework in which it is done permanently. And I would also like to say, and perhaps a little niche, that I have been informed that you cannot put on an ankle bracelet while you go to high school, but you can, if you are in an educational establishment, be at home or at work. That's a little mysterious. In any case, I believe that this is something the Minister would like to rectify. Too many high schools would like to take up the work of rehabilitation which may be topical when a judgment has been handed down that is not so harsh as to serve in prison, but that is to say, a sentence that is within the framework of serving with an ankle bracelet. Now for some of the things that have also been discussed a great deal today. After all, nobody in this Chamber wants us to do anything about the biker gang problem. No one can defend the fact that the streets are being shot. This is totally unacceptable. I'm sure all parties think so. We're not gonna shoot each other in the shoes there. Extortion of small traders, tattooists and others, which you see one example after another, simply does not belong in Denmark, and I am in favour of it being severely punished. But I also think we should be honest when we talk about punishment increases. So it's not something that's going to stop this type of person from doing it, because the penalty is already high. Therefore, we must be honest and say that if we increase the penalty, it is for the sake of the so-called sense of justice, that is, the feeling that there must be a higher prison sentence in order for it to be reasonable. That is the honest thing to say, and it is also legitimate enough. Just don't say that you create security and that there will never again be bikers and gangs in the Danish street picture, and that everything is good. I see that the President is standing up but, as I said, we have a number of proposals that we would like to discuss in committee and we cannot accept the funding that is being made. But there are also parts of this that we think are very positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509140831	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, for a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509140834	Thank you for a very long speech. I have to admit that I did not quite understand how the SF feels about the proposal as it stands, i.e. whether the SF will vote in favour or whether the SF will vote in favour, provided that there are some amendments or what it is like. I am asking because it might be a bit of a new break on the part of the SF if we vote in favour of some punishments................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In any case, this is usually a point of view which I often hear the SF make wisely. Another issue is parole, namely that there must be a requirement to participate in an exit programme in order to obtain a parole if you are convicted of gang crime. I would just like to ask: what is the SF's position on this? For it is clear that this is a way of creating fewer tools in the rehabilitation toolbox, and I suppose that is not the expression of a good socialist legal policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509140938	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509140939	Thank you. That was two questions. It may be that we have to take part in the second round. In relation to the first, I would like to say that, as a starting point, we believe that caution should be exercised in raising the penalty just in order to raise it. Particular attention should be paid to whether there is evidence that it also works, whether it has a preventive effect, etc. But that is not to say that there should not also be reasonableness in it, and even in areas where one can see that the fact that there is a prison sentence for a given crime does not prevent him from committing the crime, there must still be reasonableness for the sake of giving justice to the victim. That is also why both the SF and the Enhedslisten have voted for an increase in punishment in the field of rape. So there are areas where we have lifted the penalty, although I believe that SF and Enhedslisten on long stretches have the same view. As far as parole is concerned, it's just a tool, a carrot, that the D.C. can use to try and lure these people into behavior. Yes, I think the rapporteur will have to ask that question again in the second round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141052	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141053	Yes, it is true that we have been involved in voting in favour of austerity in the field of rape, because there have been restrictions on persons-dangerous crime, and then we reached a point where rape was simply punished lower than other forms of crime comparable to rape. We didn't think that made sense, so in that case we supported a tightening. But this is because, on the basis of punishment, we are merely doing justice and that every time we have to solve a problem in the area of justice, we are just saying that we need more punishment and thus more and more closer to an American justice system, so that we put a lot of people in prison but do not fight crime, I find it very problematic. I think that is also problematic about this, just as I think it is problematic if we go in and destroy the resocializing work, which should, of course, be at the heart of a socialist legal policy, for which I assume that the SF as a socialist party is still working.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141152	I agree in part. Now it's just some pretty big questions the questioner is asking, so I'd like to finish the question of why we think there's reasonableness in hooking up parole with exit programs. That is what we think, because parole must be a reward for good behaviour in advance, so that progress can be seen and that the person concerned will not go back into crime when he comes out. That is precisely what has been fixed on the exit programme, and that is also why we want there to be special exit sections in prisons, so that you can prepare these people for a life without crime, and so that they can get some training or other tools for it in advance in prisons. So it's exactly resocializing to get into these courses already while you're in prison.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141238	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141247	Last year, in 2016, there were 54 shootings associated with biker gang conflicts, and this is more than a triple from 2015 to 2016. Gang crime is becoming an ever greater challenge... and it's becoming more brutal. In some places it's the gangs that run the areas. We saw it clearly when the Prime Minister visited Vollsmose, where he was welcomed by the gang leader, and it is, after all, a declaration of bankruptcy for a community governed by the rule of law that the gangs control certain areas. We're gonna have to end this. The gangs have to fight for the line. There is also the fact that ordinary law-abiding citizens are sometimes affected by the crime of gangs, and it is important that we are on the side of the citizens. Therefore, this bill comes whose aim is to implement parts of the political agreement, gang package III, which the government made together with the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party, and it aims to tighten up and update the first gang packages. If I am specifically going to mention some of the elements of the proposal that have been mentioned by some of the other rapporteurs, then it is the case that people convicted under the criminal code can only be paroled if they have actively and satisfactorily participated in an exit process, and we think this is very sensible. It's not a legal claim or a human right to be paroled, because you're still away convicted... it's a privilege. The point of this is that the gang members have to get out of the gangs. That's what this is all about. They need to get away from gang crime. Another element is that gang leaders and key people in the gangs must be visited, and their letters and phone calls must be checked so that they do not continue their criminal activity in prisons. We think that is also sensible. A third element is that if there is a gang conflict, it must be the case that inmates associated with the gangs should not be able to receive visits from other gang members. That is also sensible. A fourth element is that we increase the penalty for shootings in public spaces by up to 50%. It is also a sensible element. Another element is that we increase the penalty for blackmail. It is also an increasing trend, that is to say that gang members are trying to pressure businessmen.We have seen examples of this in relation to restaurants, kiosks, etc. We must put an end to this. All in all, we think that these are excellent elements supported by the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141600	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509141614	Thank you for that and, first of all, thank you for many good and positive contributions to the legislative proposal we have here today. In the past year, we have seen an increase in the raison d'être of biker gang crime in Denmark. This has led to many violent conflicts, and the number of biker-gang-related shootings in the public space was more than tripled from 2015 to 2016. Repeatedly, the lives and health of ordinary and law - abiding citizens have been put at risk. This should not be the case in Denmark, and I am therefore proud to have entered into a very important political agreement with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party on strengthening efforts to combat biker gang crime. It is an agreement that is strongly opposed to it, and it is the political agreement that we are implementing much of today's legislative proposal. We should not accept that bikers and gangs of brutal and ruthless crime create insecurity in the streets. The Danes must be able to walk the streets without fear of being caught in the shootings of bikers and gang groups. Therefore, from the beginning of my time as Minister of Justice, it has been a top priority to sharpen the course towards bikers and gang members. Specifically, it is proposed that persons convicted under the criminal code should only be eligible for parole if they have actively and satisfactorily participated in an exit or similar programme established by the criminal justice system. At the same time, it is proposed that participation in the programme should continue during a possible parole, and otherwise it is as a clear starting point back in prison. The proposed scheme implies that the person concerned should have a real intention to leave the relevant bickering or gang grouping. I think that makes a great deal of sense, because we should not parole inmates who are very likely to return to a criminal environment. In addition, it is proposed that inmates who play a leading or coordinating role in the bicker gang environment, as the clear starting point must have attended their visits and checked their letters and telephone conversations. This will ensure that those concerned are effectively prevented from communicating about the planning or conduct of illegal activities inside or outside the prison. It is also proposed that all inmates and gang members whose grouping is actively involved in a pending violent conflict should be completely cut off from receiving visits by persons associated with the same grouping. The draft law also contains a number of penalties designed to ensure that there is a noticeable impact on biker and gang crimes. In 2016, as mentioned, there has been a marked increase in the number of shooting episodes in the public space related to rocker-gang conflicts. It poses a great risk to casual and innocent passers-by. It is therefore proposed that the penalty for shootings in public spaces be significantly increased. Specifically, the draft law provides for a new provision to be included in the criminal code, which would mean that the penalty for offences involving firearms and explosives in public spaces could be increased by up to 50%. The bill also provides for an extension of the criminal code's gang code, which tightens the penalties for biker-gang-related crime so that it can be applied in the future in more cases than it is today. The provision now applies only when the gang conflict is in progress and not, therefore, to the criminal acts leading to the conflict. That is why it is proposed to extend the gangage clause so that it also includes the crime that is suitable for bringing about a gang conflict. It can, for example, be done. be a shooting that triggers a conflict between two rival gangs about a criminal market. At the same time, it is proposed to extend the scope of the gangage provision to cover serious arms offences. The draft law also contains a proposal to tighten up the penalties for systematic and organised blackmail by one third. The sharpening will include: In the case of serious blackmail, where gangs systematically or organized collect so-called protection money from businessmen in return for leaving them alone. The draft law also proposes to relax the conditions for the abolition of a temporary ban on residence in biker fortresses and gangs. At the same time, it is proposed to double the penalty for violation of a prison ban for normally at least 60 days. With those comments, I would like to thank you for your contributions. I look forward to further consideration and, of course, I am available to answer any questions that may come here and in the further work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142112	Thank you. There are a few comments or questions. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142118	Thank you. In relation to some of the consultation answers on the exit programme, would the Minister agree that it may not be clear what an exit programme is, what it takes to succeed with an exit programme, and how and when an exit programme can be launched? In this respect, will the Minister also consider whether it should already start in prisons with the Swedish model, namely specific exit sections in prisons?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142155	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142156	Thank you. To take the last thing first, it is already the case today that if you go into an exit programme in prison, there is of course the possibility that you do not go among your friends. But I'm happy to discuss the terms on which things are going. We can then say to the whole debate on the exit programmes that this is already the case today. It is nothing new, that is, that we are now about to invent something called exit programmes. Because we already know that today, and we will then be strengthening and looking at it, and it is after all the criminal services that are doing this. Then you can discuss whether a bill should completely brush out what an exit program should be like. I don't think so. The most important thing must be what initiatives we can take to get criminals out of crime. And if they go into an exit process, the idea is to develop the processes we already know today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142254	But it's a little funny, because other things have been specified in detail. So, in terms of whether or not it is explicit, I think it is more a matter of where you put the weight and what you think is important. There have been plenty of examples of the fact that the exit programmes do not work satisfactorily, and if, therefore, in a legislative proposal you ask how you want it, and then you discover that, in order for it to work, you will actually have to spend a little more money on it, then it is also something that has to be included in the agreement. Should I then interpret the Minister's reply in such a way that if it costs a little more money to get proper exit programmes, so that we ensure that bikers get out of crime and become law-abiding citizens, then the Minister will not improve the exit programmes, because the financial framework may be outside what has been agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142340	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142340-2	After all, a political agreement has been reached with an associated economy, because there is of course an expectation that you can do this in a good and proper way. Now we're gonna have to see how it's screwed up. It's also about how it is, we can help people in an exit program better, and it's not necessarily about that it costs x number kr. More. We are going to look at that, but I really think it makes sense that we do not say precisely and specifically that exit programmes can in any case go that way and that we must take that and that into account. I think it's gonna be hard to make out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142415	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142418	The Minister said in his speech: We should not parole people • I think that is the word the Minister used • which most likely returns to the criminal environment. The first question I would like to ask is: does the Minister really believe that it is a correct description of the work of the criminal services if it is to be understood in the sense that today people are on parole who are very likely to return to the criminal environment? Does the Minister think that's how the D.A. works today? The second question I would like to ask is: if we propose, as we do here in the draft law, some punishments which we do not have any proof of have a preventive effect at the same time as we go in and destroy the possibility of re-socializing work, is it not true that this bill will lead to more and not less crime?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142514	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142515	It just needs to be understood that bikers and gang members are deep criminals. I don't think they should be rewarded with parole, they have to spend time. These are deep criminals, and why are they being paroled? That's kind of just what I'm gonna say with it. There was no such deeper thought or hints to anything else behind it. Well, that's a very funny way to discuss it. Punishment is what we do because we think this is serious crime, where you have to spend more time in prison. I keep looking for the opposite view here. What would the alternative be? Less punishment? This is also a political attitude, in relation to what you think is right and wrong. I have always said that I freely admit that for me this is also about what I think is fair and where we must take political action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142616	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142617	So what the Minister said in his speech should not be understood as a criticism of the criminal justice system, in relation to the fact that the criminal services are currently using parole in situations where people are very likely to commit new crimes. I welcome that clarification because, when we have conducted this debate in many different places in the media, but also here in the Parliamentary Chamber, it is presented by many rapporteurs as if a parole is something you pull in a vending machine, although we all know very well that parole is only granted if, for example, it is granted. is such that the Department of Investigation clearly considers that no new crime will be committed during the parole.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142653	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142654	Well, then there's one thing I can please, sir. Rune Lund with us today with this bill, because that's exactly how it is. Then we have a political position where we disagree on whether bikers and gang members should be on parole or not, where we are then some who say that they should only if they are part of an exit programme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142714	Thank you. And there is just one comment from Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142721	I was in my rapporteur's speech earlier on the subject of punishment, which was referred to as a 50% increase in the penalty. Then I would just like to ask what specific cases or examples of criminal offences are involved, where the penalty has been too low. Are there any specific punishments that have violated Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen's sense of justice and made him think: So this is too soft, we have to raise the penalty?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142801	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142802	When you raise the sentences, it's because you think they're too low. Then it is about what penalty there should be, and then it is also a signal that it is. I do not think that I have ever tried to hide the fact that this is also about signals and attitudes and politics. It's also a signal to people that when you're this type of criminal as you are, you'll get with the whole crib, if I may say so. And that is why I think it is an important signal to the public that we are coming for these types and that they must be punished more severely and they must spend longer in prison. I think that's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142840	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142841	I'm sure Mr. Knox wouldn't mind. Søren Pape Poulsen knows what the purpose of my question was. It was to ask what the punishment is today and what it should be. The Minister is concerned abstractly with this, and that is because the Minister cannot even give some concrete examples of where the penalty was too low, what it is for a case in which he has been given, what I know, perhaps eight months, when the Minister thinks he should have had more. So, does the Minister even know what punishment has been given to people in those areas, or does the Minister just need when there has been unrest in the street, so to go out and say: Now we have to raise the penalty? Can I have some examples of some specific cases in which the Minister has felt offended by his sense of justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142919	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142920	I think Mrs Zenia Stampe was very good when we had the discussion about Europol and that everything should be quiz programmes. Does Mrs Zenia Stampe really expect me to be able to stand here and say that now I have to tell you about 20 randomly selected cases where you get some different penalties that I think are too low? This is just about the fact that we need to tighten up the penalties. That is what we are doing with the minimum penalty, for example. for possession of firearms. Today it costs a minimum of 1 year in prison to be taken with a gun that you cannot have. And should gang members really be allowed to run around with it? That's why we're saying it's two years now. I think that's really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509142958	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143015	The debate is open, and that is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143027	In 2014, former Minister of Justice Karen Hækkerrup set up a committee to find a shortcut to close biker castles and gang clubhouses. This happened on top of the long-standing insecurity of neighbours to the groupings, and it is basically the recommendations of the committee we are discussing here and which have become part of the gang package III. The bill proposes to allow municipalities to prohibit the use of a property as a collection point for bikers or gang groups if the assembly point is detrimental to the residents or creates insecurity. At the same time, the proposal changes the planning act so that the owner of a property is obliged to disclose to the municipality who is the user of the property, if necessary for the treatment of, among other things, the municipality. a specific case relating to the legalisation of an illegal relationship. The proposal means that from 1 July of this year it will be much easier to put an end to the assembly activities of criminal groups. This is a proposal which we in the Socialist Group can support in every way. It is simply not right that criminal groups should make everyday life insecure for ordinary Danes living on ordinary villa roads and whose only desire is to be able to live a family life without fear that there are gunfires in the neighborhood or other crime. Rockerborgs and gang clubs are among the status symbols of criminal groups, and with the right to freedom of assembly in the Constitution, the groupings have long laughed the authorities up their faces, but hopefully more of these laughs will freeze with this change of law, because it will be much easier for the authorities to close the assembly places in Odense, in Næstved, Herning, in the West, in Nyborg and in all other cities where the criminal groups have settled. I am very pleased that in 2014 we launched the important work with the Rockerborg Committee, which shows that it is sometimes useful and that things take time. What was not possible has actually become an opportunity because of solid work in committee. With these words, we in the Socialist Group can support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143248	We thank Mrs Trine Bramsen. There are no brief comments, and then we move on to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143258	Thank you. With this bill, we are implementing the recommendations of the Rockerborg Committee's report, which we have waited a long time for, but which we are pleased to see finally. I understand if, as a neighbor to a biker castle or to gang rooms, one is deeply, deeply uncomfortable about the activity that is going on, and insecure that even very serious crime may be committed around the corner, insecure that a potential conflict may endanger oneself, one's loved ones, one's family, or insecure by seeing gang members and bikers in the area spread an insecurity, for it is in every way unsatisfactory. There has also been a very great desire from a number of mayors who have bikers' castles or gang rooms in their municipalities to have the opportunity to do better, to help close these rooms and to help fight organised crime that may exist in their areas, and something is being done about that. With the proposal here, the municipalities will have better opportunities to ban the use of a specific property or lease as a meeting place for a particular grouping. That is a very great step forward. It is also proposed to amend the law on plans so as to ensure that the municipalities can always be informed by the owner of a building, who is the tenant when it comes to dealing with illegal conditions on the property. And then, and that's another positive thing about this proposal, the municipality is obliged to consider banning the activity that might take place in this property, and it's also a very big step forward. In this respect, it is a very good proposal, a good one. But we ourselves have also had some misgivings about this or some reflection on why it has just been decided to link it together in this way. The municipalities are, of course, made responsible for the fact that the rules are going to work, because it is the municipalities that are responsible for the treatment in this type of case, and we have always been surprised that it was precisely with the municipality that they put it, and not in the first place with the police. But we can live with the solution that has been put forward here. It is our hope that it will work and that over the next few years we will see that mayors will succeed in closing down some of the bikers' castles and gang rooms that create great insecurity in their very areas, but we will see that as it gets through in the municipalities. I can only announce that the Danish People's Party intends to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143538	Thank you to the rapporteur, and there are no brief comments here either, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143547	Imagine you're next door to a biker castle. It may be that along the way you have lived in your villa for a few years, and suddenly you can see that it may be harder for the children to get out to play, that it will be harder for the children to bring home playmates, that it will be harder to sell the house, that it will be harder to get it reprioritized, because the credit association doesn't assess it much anymore. As I said, it will be a burden beyond boundaries and boundaries, and that is why we must do everything we can to get rid of these bikers. We are, however, restricted by the rules of the Constitution, and it does of course mean that in many areas we may not be able to implement what we might want to do immediately. In fact, with this proposal, I think we are getting a good deal along the way. A new possibility is introduced for the municipal council to prohibit the use of a property as a meeting place for a particular group. As the bill is formulated, the possibility applies everywhere, whether the property is located in the city or on land, whether it is a commercial or a residential property. But the condition for intervention is, of course, that there is danger or insecurity for the surroundings, and that can of course be a rather broad concept. We in the Left hope that this will be interpreted as lightly as possible to the benefit of the law-abiding neighbours concerned. The prohibition may be terminated without notice. That is to say, it can, however, be appealed to the Board of Appeal, as it says, but the appeal does not have suspensory effect, and I think that is fine. So with the proposal, we are adding another opportunity to get rid of rockerborg activities. We have the biker law, we now have this law, which is popularly referred to as the no-show law, I think, the hashclub law, zone bans, order notice, building regulations, etc. If there's anything missing that we can legally implement here in the Folketing to get rid of these activities, we're happy to do so. This is an excellent proposal which we are happy to vote in favour of from the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143818	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. And we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509143837	This bill implements parts of the political agreement reached between the government, the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party on gang package III. The proposal provides for the possibility for municipalities to prohibit the use of a property as a place of assembly for a particular group, for example. a biker or gang group, if this group is suitable for causing, as it is called, significant inconvenience and insecurity to the surroundings. The Enhedslisten has the basic position that we should punish people for the crime they commit. And when it comes to organised criminals such as bikers and gang criminals, we have to go hard on them, because they commit serious crime, violent crime, and they have to be prosecuted, and they have to be punished for it. But we think there are a number of fundamental problems in starting to punish people, not for the crime they commit, but because they are in a certain place. We believe that it raises some fundamental problems with regard to freedom of assembly, a fundamental freedom in our democratic society, and it also raises, in fact, some fundamental problems with regard to private property and the right to use one's home, and a whole range of other issues that are relevant, a whole range of fundamental principles in our society, which are also important to defend, even when it applies to people whom, moreover, we do not understand any sympathy at all, people who commit crime, which, of course, we cannot support in any way. The package contains a proposal that it should be easier for municipalities and the police to prohibit certain people from gathering in a rocker castle, and it would be possible to prohibit certain people from entering a property if the neighbours feel bothered and if this would lead to a significant disadvantage and insecurity for the residents. The proposal is very loose and vaguely worded. Today, people can be prevented from gathering in a biker castle if there is a prospect of an attack on the house or danger to neighbours and passers-bys. This is a consequence of the bickering law that we have had since the 1990s, where the Supreme Court has also said that there is proportionality to it. The question is, is there anything about the new bill here? We feel that it is important for bikers and other organised criminals to be combated by investigation and prosecuted for their criminal acts, and at the same time, of course, we need to be better at preventing their recruitment, and we need to help those who want to leave the environment. In general terms, it is the preventive action, the rehabilitation effort, which will make a difference here on the long stretch. Over the years, in Enhedslisten, we have taken many local initiatives against bikers, and there are many ways to help fight bikers and gangs. In Kolding Enhedslisten has e.g. supported torch torch parade under the slogan "Rockers out of the city'. We have done so, while emphasising that bikers and, to that extent, gangs, like all other citizens, have constitutional rights, including freedom of association and assembly. In Copenhagen, the Enhedslisten, just as we also have in Gladsaxe, has supported the use of the planning law's possibilities to remove biker castles. And we support this kind of initiative when it is possible to do so. At the same time, we are embarrassingly aware that this is not a real solution to combat organised crime. That is the preventive action, such as the one we are discussing today. better social action, youth clubs, exit strategies and so, of course, old-fashioned police work. There are a large number of consultation responses which have also come up with their assessment of the draft law. In the opinion of the Court of Justice, the draft law's condition that the use of the property by the group as a place of assembly should be suitable to cause considerable inconvenience and insecurity to the surroundings, constitutes a very broad and discretionary formulation, in addition to which a decision is taken before a decision is taken. The National Association of Defence Attorneys notes that it is not quite clear what is meant by significant disadvantage and insecurity for the residents, and the Association considers that this should be clarified. And the Institute of Human Rights considers that the criteria that the genes of the use of the property by the group should clearly go beyond what can be expected and have been going on for a longer period of time are so central to the definition of the scope of the provision that they should appear in the legislative text, that is to say, clarification. Overall, this is a very unclear legislative proposal which risks undermining fundamental freedoms in our society. We want to fight rocker fortresses and gang crime, but not by destroying our fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509144357	Thank you very much to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509144408	Thank you. With this bill, we want to give the municipalities another tool to fight rocker castles if they cause great inconvenience to the citizens. Rockerborgs do not belong in ordinary residential neighbourhoods, they often cause very great insecurity because they attract violence and other crime. Therefore, we allow municipalities to prohibit the use of a property as a collection point for a biker or gang grouping if it is considered to cause significant insecurity for the citizens living around the property. We think this is sensible and the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509144446	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509144459	Thank you. In the alternative, we are cautiously positive about this bill. With the bill, the government wants to introduce the right of assembly ban scheme, whereby the municipal councils are obliged to prohibit the use of a property as a place of assembly for a particular group, such as a group of gangs or bikers, if the group causes a significant disadvantage or insecurity for the residents. In the alternative, we recognise the problem. We also believe that there is a problem and we would like to give the municipalities greater freedom to solve that problem. One might ask whether this is necessary or whether there is already enough legal basis in the planning law to address these challenges on the part of the municipalities. I understand that the Ministry believes that there isn't, and that's why we need to introduce this special law. We look forward with anticipation to how and to what extent it will then be used. There are also some concerns about the bill that I would like to mention from up here. Are we interfering with the constitutional right to property and freedom of assembly when we put forward such a bill as this, and when we ask certain groups to unite in a property? This is something we discussed with concern in the Alternative. However, unlike the bill we were discussing just now, there are, in fact, elements in this draft law that are less discretionary, and we would like to praise the government for that too. Some principles seem to have come around as to when it is that the municipalities can then impose a ban which must be complied with in order for the municipalities to be able to make that decision, and we think we would like to recognise that as such. Then there are some phrases that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned some of the same things that are a little unclear. For example: writes the Ministry that frequent traffic nuisances are one of the criteria; it stands a little vague. What is a frequent traffic problem? As the Enhedslisten rapporteur also mentioned, the Institute for Human Rights says that the criteria that the genes should clearly go beyond what can be expected and have been going on for a longer period should be included in the legal text rather than only in the comments, and that is actually something that is important to us in the Alternative. So we will consider tabling an amendment which can include those wordings in the legislative text, because then it will at least be somewhat clearer what the underlying criteria are. In fact, we also disagree with the fact that it has been decided to disregard the committee's recommendations that a warning should first be given before a meeting place can be closed. That could also be something on which we would consider tabling an amendment. So we are cautiously positive. We have some reservations which I will discuss further in the subsequent committee work, but as a starting point we support the proposal and then we will see what the committee work shows.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509144811	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509144822	We are also cautiously positive. I would like us to follow the area, and maybe that is something that you can work on • I don't quite know how, but that we see how it is being used. What we, who are cautiously poised, may be afraid of, of course, is that it is being applied too far and widely to groups which may not be the ones it has actually been intended for. Therefore, it might be a good idea to follow up on the possible bans that have been imposed across municipalities to see what practice is and whether the rules are also applied in relation to the target group or you might also use them in relation to groups that were not intended for them. But otherwise, we're positive. We have also noticed that specific criteria have been mentioned, which were some of what we seem to be missing before, but again I want to say: how are these criteria to be combined, in other words, there are things in relation to traffic? Is it enough that there are traffic problems, or should it be combined with other things? We assume that it should be combined, but it will be a little interesting to see how the municipalities will use this option, but we are cautiously positive, but with the reservation that we think that we should follow the legislation and see how it is applied in practice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509144953	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Maybe it was a mistake. It was a mistake. Then we thank Mrs Zenia Stampe. And here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145012	From the SF we are also cautiously positive, or what we call it today, when we are a number of parties that can see some principles in the balance bowl, where there is something that weighs to one side, and something that weighs to the other side. As some of my colleagues have said, and as Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen from the Left mentioned, there is a fairly fundamental principle enshrined in the constitution of ownership and the right to assemble. It can be said that this bill does not mean that there will be shootings or very violent incidents before it comes into force. It's the crotch before that. That is something we must be very careful about, especially when it comes to constitutional rights. That is actually what I heard from the rapporteur from the Left. When we are cautiously positive about this, it is also because you have to pay so much attention, and there are some long remarks about this bill, especially if you are a lawyer and an employee of the Ministry of Justice, when it comes to fundamental freedoms and you restrict them. Therefore, there must also be all these examples and assessments of when they can actually come into force. My and SF's basic view is also that when you live in a community that a municipality is, as a local area in a municipality is, it is not that everything just applies. Then you are part of a community where you also have to behave with each other. These are the two principles which are somewhat opposite each other, that is to say, the right to some of the freedoms that exist, even if you wear a backmark. This is also the rather unpopular position which I do not think everyone in the Folketing is indifferent to, that is, that freedoms apply to everyone, including bikers, until people do something that is actually illegal. These are the freedoms that are on the one hand. And then, on the other hand, the Community's right to be at peace could have its playful children out on the street without the risk of shooting and without the risk of it becoming a gathering place for organised crime. We think that this balance has been struck very well, and it is, of course, as with everything else, taking into account the constitution. There are a number of provisions that need to be complied with, and then we already have a number of regulations on public order and so on. So we think that the balance between the two scales is actually found. However, because we are in the process of touching some fundamental rights, we think that, as with other legislative proposals, there should be a sunset clause when we are inside and restricting the rights of some, as this is also a sunset clause, so that we can follow it. This is a very effective way of following legislative proposals, that is to say, simply having a sunset clause. We would suggest that there is in this area, so that within a few years we look at how it has been used too much, and how has it been interpreted? I would also like to support those of my fellow Members who have spoken in particular about Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier from the Alternative and also Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Group, who mentioned that some of the comments simply contain too much rubber band in meter measurements. What will traffic nuisances be? You can also see an incredible number of traffic nuisances in front of many primary schools in this country, I should say hello. Or it could be all sorts of other things. This is not, of course, something specific enough to say that we are now neglecting the right to property and fundamental rights to assembly because there are traffic problems. So I would like to support the fact that we get it specified to a greater extent, because when we are in touch with some of these things, it is important that we are incredibly specific, so that we also uphold some rights for those we do not like. This is actually a fundamental principle for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145436	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145444	The draft law, as several rapporteurs have mentioned, gives the municipalities the legal right to throw the rockers out of bikers' castles, which create insecurity in a certain residential area. We think this is sensible and we support it in the Consivative People's Party. What should be borne in mind is that this is something that has been demanded by citizens, mayors and municipalities in recent years. It is both in relation to biker castles at Amager, in Vanløse, Gladsaxe, Esbjerg, Odense, Herning and Næstved. So this is something the municipalities have wanted, and we are complying with it today. This seems to Conservatives to be excellent, so all in all we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145532	The rapporteur. There are no brief remarks, and then it is the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145542	Thank you for that, and thank you for the largely positive reception today, although some have been cautiously positive. After all, the bill here is the second of today's two proposals, which implement large parts of the political agreement that the government has made with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats for a strengthened response to gang crime. I also think we should remind each other that it is, of course, the result of a long and thorough work by the Rockerborg Committee which has come up with its report, which has then been concluded in the negotiations. I think it is extremely important that the Danes should be able to feel safe everywhere they live and move, and we should not put up with it if biker castles or similar places of residence pester the lives of ordinary people on villa roads and other residential areas. That is why the government is now putting this bill in place, and so we have a new law that allows municipalities to ban the use of a property as a collection point for example. a biker group or a gang group if it causes significant inconvenience and insecurity to the surroundings. We're not gonna solve every problem with biker castles with this bill. But we are giving the municipalities a very good tool for putting in if the genes at bikersborgs and clubhouses become very violent, and I think that is important to keep in mind, that is to say, that this is what it is all about. There are some people in this country who are shouting that politicians are doing something, because every day they live in 15 minutes and have these clubhouses as neighbors. And I think that anyone in here can understand that it's not funny, and I bet none of those present or anyone else could dream of buying a house for sale next to a rocker castle, no matter how tolerant we should be. I do not think anyone here would do that. Therefore, we have to do everything we can, of course, within the framework of the Constitution, to get this done and to come after them in every possible way. I think we should stand on the side of the law-abiding Danes; those who just want to be allowed to live in peace and quiet. And then look a little less at whether there are any bikers or gang members, we're pushing a little bit here. But we will have the opportunity to discuss this further here in a few moments and in any questions which may come during the committee's proceedings and which I naturally make available to answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145831	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145834	Thank you. I would like to admit that living next to someone associated with the biker environment can be very unpleasant. In fact, I have been doing this myself for many years in Ålborg, and it is not funny, and therefore there has also been support for this proposal. But then we're just a lot of people saying that even those we don't like if they haven't done something illegal, they've been convicted of and smoked in prison for • also have some rights, and I think the country's Minister of Justice sometimes skates over that a little lightly. Rights are not just something we give to those who look like ourselves and whom we like, it is something that applies to everyone. That is why, when we restrict them, we need to be very careful and we need to be very precise, and I think it is important that the country's Minister of Justice, of all people, keeps it very much up to date. My question is a little more specific, and it concerns something that several of my fellow Members have mentioned, namely the issue of traffic nuisances. Can the Minister see that there might be some reason to tighten up on that basis, because unfortunately there are many places in Danish society without it having anything to do with bikers or gangs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145944	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509145945	First of all, I would like to say yes to the questioner, because I agree that, when we make legislation, it should not be just for those who look like us or for those we like. I also think that the Rockerborg Committee clearly respects our constitution, and so does the Ministry of Justice, and I hope we have a common recognition of that. I also admit that we are trying to go as far as we can to test the framework because this is violent for the citizens who live in the areas. Then it is about traffic right, but when the municipalities come to look at this, they will not come to the conclusion that it is threatening or insecure for citizens if there are many cars around a school. Well, it may happen, there were some parents who should get a little better at letting their kids ride their bikes, because it's dangerous when everyone gets in their cars and drops the kids off, but that's not exactly what this is all about. Those are violent traffic problems, because it is not the case that just one thing is needed, so you can close a biker castle like that. We make it sound so easy, but something still needs to be done before a municipality can do this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150053	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150055	Thank you. I agree that it is not the same at all, but when you do not narrow it up well enough, you can also say: what about a place where there are young people who are constantly having a party and they are annoying and they are loud and it is extremely annoying and there are lots of traffic and motorcycles, cars etc. that are out there? It's just to say it's a gray area. And where are you gonna put the cut? Allow me to interpret the reply of the Minister for Justice in such a way that he is, after all, willing to see whether we can narrow it down a little, so that we can achieve what we all really want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150134	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150135	It's amazing when others interpret what you say, because it gives a certain space for many things. I think it is an overall assessment that the municipalities should take. It is true that this draft law does not lay down precise and objective conditions for precisely abolishing, for example. A ban, and this applies to everyone as well. But should we not be honest and say that in reality this will only apply to bikers and gang members and such things. No municipalities think: there is too much traffic around the school, so we close the school. So I don't think that's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150209	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150221	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150233	In February 2016, we strongly argued on the part of the Social Democratic Party that Danish authorities should be able to close websites with terrorist propaganda to a much greater extent. The proposal was rejected by the then Minister of Justice, which is why we are also extremely pleased that we are dealing here 15 months later with the same proposal with a new Minister of Justice. For us Social Democrats, the position is clear: what is being struck down in the physical world must also be defeated when it is done on the Internet. If a person stands in a public place and distributes flyers with calls for the killing of Jews or homosexuals, the police will have the right to take action, take flyers from the person and possibly charge him. The same opportunities do not exist today when the message is spread on the Internet, and therefore this proposal is important. We know that young people who turn out to be radicalised often find inspiration on the Internet. We have seen this in quite a number of terrorist cases both at home and abroad. With this proposal, we are introducing a new provision into the Code of Criminal Procedure which will allow websites to be blocked if it is assumed that the websites are used for specific violations of the Code of Criminal Procedure, such as propaganda for terrorist organisations. Thus, it will finally be easier to stop the spread of terrorist propaganda on the Internet. It is a proposal that we in the Social Democrats welcome and can support to such an extent. The proposal also proposes to make life more difficult for those who go to war on their own and engage in illegal conflicts. In concrete terms, the proposal makes it easier to stop the payment of public services and to recover funds paid out. We can also support that part. And we are also willing to provide the authorities with better tools to identify these people if there is a need to do so. So, overall, I can tell you that we in the Social Democratic Party support the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150437	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150442	Thank you. After all, this proposal is also about taking public services from people travelling, and we also support this far along the way from the SF. We do not think it makes any sense to be on public service if you go out. But just in the specific case of the children's cheque, it is money that is targeted at children and that is paid out to parents. That's what we agreed. Let's say there's a couple of kids where the man goes out. The draft law does not guarantee that children's money will not be taken as well. The children's money must be taken as a starting point, as stated in the proposal. What does the Social Democrats' rapporteur think about this, i.e. that an entire family and children can be punished because, for example, we are not going to be able to do so. The father chooses to go out? Maybe the rest of the family doesn't know about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150538	There will always be something called the child's best interests that comes first. This is very clearly defined in the legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150546	That is not clearly defined in this legislation at all. It is actually mentioned in the comments, which say that children's money must also be taken, and I do not think that is fair. Will the Social Democrats be prepared to say that that is the part that needs to be delimited so as to ensure that children's money still goes away to the children who live in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150612	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150614	It all depends on how these children's money is paid. If the starting point is that they are paid to a father who is in Syria and he withdraws them from his account, then we think it is quite reasonable that they should be involved. But there is something clearly called the child's best interests. In other words, as a society, we are responsible for the thriving of a child, and that is the home parent. If that is the case, it does not make sense to take the child's money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150643	Thank you to Mrs Trine Bramsen. We move on to Mr. Peter Kofod Poulsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509150649	Thank you. The proposal we are debating now has two different main elements. The first element is the possibility of blocking websites which may spread terrorist propaganda or which spread threats and harassment against public officials. After all, we have been waiting for quite a long time for this proposal to come forward after we started discussing it over a year ago. Now we are standing and can deal with it, and in many ways this element is quite sensible and fairly well worked out, we think. Because there is a need to take care of young people who are at risk of being radicalised and who fall over material on the Internet that can help radicalise them. It is our impression that this element of the proposal is clearly moving in the right direction, because it is clear that the same rules must apply to the spread of terrorist propaganda on the Internet as in the real world. That is why it is also good that action is being taken in this area. We can therefore support the proposals that are here. Then there is the whole element of slowing down services to foreign fighters. It is also a very important element. Because it is an insult to the Danes, to their compatriots, that you can go to holy war in other countries, possibly for terrorist organisations, for organisations which have nothing to do with Denmark and which fight our own values. It is an insult to all of us not only against our money, for it is the ones you use when you have the trunk in the treasury, but a direct insult to our values. That is simply completely unacceptable. Therefore, it is also excellent that you look at the possibility that you can put in more thoroughly and shut down these services. It is also a good thing that we are discussing what benefits are to be given in concrete terms. There are some suggestions for this in the proposal here. However, I can say that we also have a desire for some other sanctions that we would like to take up during the committee procedure. It's no secret that my good colleague, sir. Christian Langballe recently had a proposal for consideration in the Parliamentary Assembly that we should look, to a far greater extent than is the case today, at the removal of those who had to go to holy war as foreign fighters, their citizenship if they had a Danish citizenship. We are, in fact, willing to go incredibly far to curb the terrorist tourism that is taking place, which is both an insult to Denmark, but which is also potentially at risk of endangering our security when these people return home, perhaps more radicalised, perhaps more ready to commit violence and perhaps also trained in various forms of arms management. That is why it is crucial that this particular area should be addressed. We will use the time during the committee procedure to get a thorough look at what we can do to make this bill even better in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151004	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151007	Thank you. I would like to ask the same question that I put to the Social Democrat rapporteur, namely whether the DF will help ensure that the comments on the bill say that it is the direct benefits for those who might wish to travel abroad that could be unemployment benefits or different pensions, or whatever it might be where we say that this should not happen of course. However, where the services are aimed at the children, we just need to be clarified because there is everything possible in relation to the residence parents etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151053	In fact, I think that the way in which this has been put forward in the comments is quite reasonable. Because it is quite clear that if child support can be regarded as an indirect form of financial support to the enterprise that a person travels out, then of course you should not have it. So I really think that some efforts have been made in the legislative proposal to achieve some balance. So I see no immediate reason to clarify. But perhaps Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can define for me what she wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151126	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151130	I do not think any effort has been made. It has just been said that it can help finance such a foreign warrior or someone who goes out. But if we now had it jointly arranged so that it should of course not go to the person it might possibly be the father who travels out. We must ensure that it goes to the children who are in Denmark and to the parent of residence. You have to assume that it is the resident parent, that is, the mother, who sits at home. Would it not be a punishment for the children who have nothing to do with the decision to leave, the loss of thousands of dollars, which could mean whether or not these children could afford to go to hobbies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151215	The questioner starts by saying that one can assume that the money had to be spent on something particular. I think that is something of the strength of the comments in this proposal, namely that you take it up precisely and speak it up and say that you have the impression that this money is really an indirect form of terrorist support, as it could be. If a person is out of town and is in one of these areas of conflict, then I think it makes sense to have this, because we should not pay for it. Danish taxpayers are not going to finance that. That would be quite unreasonable for Danish taxpayers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151249	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Seligman's question. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151303	Thank you. We must ensure that the authorities have the same opportunities to take action against what is happening on the Internet in relation to recruitment and propaganda and the like, as the Social Democrat rapporteur so correctly compared with, if you hand out flyers on the street. That is one of the reasons why the government is trying to make, trying to implement a proposal that is effective, because it is no secret that today there is no possibility of blocking a website. You can seize, but it rarely has the necessary effect. So when the website starts from abroad, we have to check to see if we can block it at home. That is what the proposal is really about. To a significant extent, we have to say that the traffic and propaganda carried out through the network from abroad are at least as dangerous as the one carried out at home, so we must ensure an effective blockage, and I really believe that the government has laid the foundations for this today. Blocking, as the proposal allows, is not something that is simply being implemented by the police by just taking a single action. This is something that must be done through the court, through a court order, and there are, in this way, the same demands that are made in relation to the edition and seizure and other steps of the Code of Procedure. It has to be proportional. So you can't get the website blocked from, if I may say so, small things in this context. It must be done by the court. A defender must be appointed. This is done by means of an order and, in so far as possible, it is possible for the person against whom the intervention is directed to speak. I believe that, on this basis, the legal steps that can be taken at all are also being taken, and that is why we in the Left welcome the proposal on the possibility of blocking websites. This also applies, by its very nature, to the part of the proposal which relates to the fact that foreign fighters cannot receive public services. I almost said that I had not actually dreamed that it would be necessary to make a real legislative proposal on this. I thought it was a matter of course under current legislation, but it is not. So we shall now have it clarified, and I think that is quite fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151554	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509151607	This proposal consists of two parts and both are from the so-called anti-radicalisation package, which has been negotiated in the Ministry of Justice. And here comes the bill. First, a new provision is proposed in the Code of Procedure, which makes it possible to block a website if it is assumed that the website is used for specific criminal offences, such as propaganda for terrorist organisations. We have a number of different answers to this question, because it is always important to take a position on how to deal with something which, as such, is a serious interference in freedom of expression, that is to say, to go in and block access to certain political positions. After all, we must remember that it is, of course, illegal to call directly for participation in, for example, the situation today. violence or terror. But this is, after all, a propaganda company that you want to block access to, so to speak, some people who have often quite abhorrent attitudes, for example. Islamic State, which disseminates through the Internet their political and unsympathetic attitudes. The question then is how, in a democracy, we should deal with it, that some people have positions that we think are deeply reprehensible and that we do not sympathise with at all. Are we going to ban those positions, or are we going to have to deal with those positions in an open, democratic debate? On the side of the Enhedslisten, our position is clearly that the starting point is the last. We believe that the way in which we must combat extremism, the way in which we must fight against the unsympathetic and totalitarian attitudes, such as those of the United States and Japan. The Islamic State stands for, on, is doing so in an open, democratic debate. We also think it is important that we, as a democratic society, think about what we are doing about attitudes that we do not like. Because with legislation restricting the right of other people to spread their opinions on various political, social or international issues, instead of taking open democratic debate, we are in fact doing a service to totalitarian forces such as the Islamic State. They want to give examples to show that democracy is hypocrisy. As they say: Just see democracy It is not for you who disagree with the majority in Denmark. Look at democracy. It's only for those who think the same thing. And in this way, restrictions on democracy, restrictions on our fundamental freedoms, restrictions on freedom of expression, can be used to enable totalitarian forces to recruit people for their terrible deeds. In a number of consultation responses, concerns are expressed about the scope of the provisions to be introduced. The Institute for Human Rights has considered that the proposed provision is not necessary in addition to the existing rules and that the wordings do not contribute to clarity. And Justitia states that a general ban on terrorist propaganda hits wider than intended and that it makes it difficult for individuals to predict when the sharing of terrorist material will be punishable. The question is, then, when we share something that is propaganda and therefore criminal, so that access to it can be blocked or when we share something as part of an ordinary public democratic debate, so that we cannot see it blocked. It is therefore recommended by Justitia that the bill be limited to propaganda, Internet sites and persons associated with countries or organisations with which Denmark is in armed conflict. Compared to the proportional figure, among other things, Justitia also states that the legal basis for blocking websites poses the risk of a significant increase in the extent of Internet blocking and constitutes a restriction on the freedom of information. And the Court of Justice Association states that the proposed provision represents the possibility of extensive and serious interference with freedom of expression, and they recommend that the blocking clause should apply only to violations of Chapter 12 of the Criminal Code; it is the case of treason and other crimes against the State's independence and security; and Chapter 13 of the Criminal Code, which deals with crimes against the Constitution and the Supreme State authorities, terrorism, etc. Overall, this is something that we in the Enhedslisten regard as a serious interference in freedom of expression, which is not proportional and which risks having the opposite effect. The second part of the bill is about...
ParlaMint-DK_20170509152130	It is the case that speaking time has now expired. I will then have to write it in the report and in the comments on the legislative proposal). You're always welcome to do that. We thank the rapporteur and move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509152143	The threat posed by malicious extremists, who are trying by terror to challenge our free democratic society, is real. Unfortunately, we have far too many examples of this. Each time many of us are filled with equal parts of anger, grief and a touch of powerlessness. Although a great deal has already been done and is constantly being done both in Denmark and internationally to stem terrorism, we are not there where we can say with certainty in our voice that the threat has been called off or that it will not hit us again. When terror strikes, some of us are accused of flapping around us with punks about standing together, as we sing the Imagine with tears rolling down our cheeks. I do not think there is anything wrong with showing each other and saying out loud that we are fighting terrorism. We stand together as people against those who want to hurt us and for the values that are ours. However, we must also act and constantly look at whether there are new buttons to screw up in the fight against extremism, radicalisation and terrorism. And that's basically what this bill is about. The concrete tools have already been described by the previous speakers. For the Liberal Alliance, in this type of effort, it is crucial that there is the right balance between using effective tools on the one hand and proportionality in respect of legal certainty and our liberal freedoms on the other. I believe that the legislative proposal strikes the right balance by addressing the specific problems without unduly restricting the freedom of others at the same time. Before I went to the platform, I listened to Mr. Rune Lund's rapporteur. Some of the things that Mr. Rune Lund disputes, some of the consultation responses he included in his speech are consultation responses, which have come on the basis of the bill originally sent as a draft, and which has then been addressed in the light of the concerns that it was an unnecessary restriction on freedom of expression. This applies, among other things, to: the proposal to extend the provision of terrorism with an independent criminalisation of propaganda. It has just been deleted for the same reasons. Among other things: Therefore, I think that this legislative proposal strikes the right balance by striking down on what we would like without compromising on freedom of expression, as we are concerned about. So perhaps I think that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur should just go home and read through the legislative proposal as it stands now and see if the concerns he raises, which I in fact share and share with regard to the original legislative proposal, have not been met. I think they are. At least the Liberal Alliance can support the bill as it stands here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509152433	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509152441	Thank you. I was also just looking through the text of the law once again for the same reason, because I was sitting here looking for exactly what I wanted to know about the spread of terrorist propaganda. I couldn't find it either. Reference is made to the provisions of the criminal code which are under the terror laws or the terrorist clauses, i.e. § 114 xx, which are the ones to which this bill has to relate to to the extent that you find evidence on some websites that are contrary to those paragraphs. So far, so good. I would like to start by commending the Minister for listening. Now it was another minister last year, but we had a discussion about blocking websites. We were some who were very critical of the fact that it was planned to block websites without a warrant. It has been revised in such a way as to have a court order under this bill. So far, so good. After all, we also recognise that there is a challenge. We have a challenge with embedding through some of these videos that some of us have also seen examples of. As the government, in the alternative, we are also concerned with reducing the recruitment as much as possible. With the current technological development stage, it is not possible to close parts of websites, so the police can only close entire websites when you discover these problems. One can be concerned whether it is an interference in freedom of expression and information if the police choose to close an entire website without giving the person to whom the intervention is directed an opportunity to comment. Here we have some concerns about this bill because the principle of adversarialism is being put on hold. This means that the owner of the website cannot be given the opportunity to comment or object before the website is closed. This is a fundamental principle of our rule of law. We find this problematic, that is not included in the draft law. That is why, in the further consideration, we want to incorporate the principle of defence into the draft law, and we will also table an amendment on it. Then there's another problem with this. It's that this block is unlimited. This is also something that has been criticised in the hearings. That is why, in line with some of the consultation answers, we also want the blocking to be limited in time and that the police have a duty to keep track of the blocked pages and, if necessary, to remove the blocking when the conditions are no longer met. Overall, in terms of blocking websites, we agree with Aarhus Municipality, which states in their consultation answer that blocking websites is one of the tools of the fight against online radicalisation. But it is much more important for this struggle to prevent radicalisation that we train our young people in digital education; that we prevent something more at all. It's not an element of this. The SF's rapporteur has said in the past that this is not very much part of the legislative proposal we are discussing today, but we need to dress our young people more to get on the Internet and also to relate ethically and morally to the things they encounter. In the second part of the bill to stop benefits, we fully agree that of course you should not go down and fight for Daesh on the Danish government's behalf, for example. But it is clear that there are some concerns about child and youth benefits. As I read the bill, however, I think that we should discuss it in the committee work, there is the possibility that if the breadwinner who receives child and youth benefits is also the one who goes out and leaves a child at home, you can choose to pay that money to the child in one way or another. To the mother, yes, but what if it is a single breadwinner who travels out and the child is left alone? I'm just thinking that somehow we have to be absolutely sure that this isn't going to affect a child who is left behind in Denmark either with another parent or alone. That is one of the things we want to look at in the committee work, to be sure of it. Because, of course, it should not affect the children that mother or father is radicalized or traveling out as foreign warriors. So we have some attention points, and we have some things we'd like to come with. We will take it further in the work of the committee. So for now we are cautiously positive again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509152933	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509152943	Well, it is actually very positive that so many changes have been made to the original draft and that the concerns that we also had about the proposal being too broad have actually been met. I am still anxious to follow how it will be applied. I was with the legislation before, so it is probably just in these areas where we operate in grey areas and have to do with some of the most fundamental rights, namely the right to express ourselves. However, with the amendments and adjustments made to the original draft law, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509153034	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. We move on to Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509153046	After all, there are two elements to this proposal: one is the blocking of websites, and the other is the depriving of people who go out to be holy warriors, public services. To begin with, of course, we do not have to pay benefits from Denmark to anyone who travels to Syria to fight with, or in principle also against, IS. We have put a clear line on this, because we do not think that is a good idea. We won't tolerate it if it's • what to say • enemies of Denmark, but we don't think it's a good idea either, even if you're doing it to actually fight IS. That is why we wholeheartedly support the fact that, of course, public services are not to be provided if you go out, and I also think that the comments come around what should be said about legal certainty in making sure that the right authorities assess whether you have actually left, i.e. whether you have not just disappeared on a holiday to Turkey, but that there is both legal certainty that this is really the status you have and that the information also only goes to the authorities for which they are intended, i.e. from the police or the prosecutor for payment to Denmark, etc. etc. I still think, however, that there is a little confusion in relation to this particular issue of child support. It is clear that a resident parent would be the one who had stayed home in Denmark and thus not be out of town, but it might be a little sharper. I really believe that we all want the same thing: children's children's children's money should not, of course, be taken away from them, thereby exacerbating the situation that is that your parents have actually left. So what I think we actually agree to sharpen. It is a problem with the radicalisation that is going on on the Internet, and it is something new that it • what to say • knowledge, the impact is so easily accessible. But it is also a little interesting as to what we are talking about. I mean, you can go to any public library and borrow Mein Kampf. And I haven't heard any parties say that we are about to burn books or ban books or whatever. There we have a fairly extensive freedom of expression in Denmark, also to actually accept organisations whose cause we in no way recognise or can vouch for. It is legal to be a Nazi in Denmark and spread a lot of messages as long as you do not call for violence. Some of the things to say about conflicting views, which can be difficult to handle, are what makes these things a little difficult to discuss sometimes; or at least there are several aspects of it. On that end there are a lot of things out there that people can be inspired by if they are easily influenced or want to hurt others, as we actually allow. So now this is not a call for us to start banning a lot of books or removing them from the public libraries. It's just to say that there are some things that stick in this. But on the other hand, there is a lot of especially young people's time, but also our time, which goes by being present on the web, and there are a lot of things you can fall over. And without going into a specific matter, I think that we have all been very concerned recently about how young people in particular can be radicalised by the things they meet on the Internet. I would probably have stood up here and said that it was going too far and that we could not support it if it was the original proposal that had been in consultation. That is why I am also going to give a great cadeau and I do not think it is too much to say to the Liberal Alliance and Mrs Christina Egelund because it has been tightened up in a way that the SF can see itself in it. And I also believe that and now I am not speaking on behalf of the Alternative and Radical Left, but that is what I am hearing that because it has been tightened up, we are again cautiously positive about this. Because that is a real problem. But you can't ban everything you don't like either. You cannot ban books that you don't like and which can encourage everything. But here we go in and say that this is what is already illegal in relation to the criminal code, instead of, for example, the criminal code. to prohibit all propaganda. It's a wildly elastic concept, so it's really good that it's come out. The Centre for Terror Analysis is my final comment: it is also militant extremism, but also political extremism, which we must keep an eye on, and I think that is actually worth noting. But the SF supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509153602	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Naser Khader, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509153610	Radicalisation and extremism are, after all, a huge challenge for our society and for free society. This must be combated partly by force and partly by means of a daily effort in Syria and Iraq, for example; that is where the inspiration comes from many times, partly by making it extremely difficult for people to be radicalised, especially the young people. They can be in different ways, including: via the Internet. We must also make it difficult to recruit young people into radicalisation, and we must make it difficult to go down and participate in activities related to extremism. And we should not use tax dollars to finance terrorist activities at all, and that is what happens when there have been examples that some people have got their services down there, which is grotesque. The aim of the draft law is to implement a number of points set out in the national action plan on preventing and combating extremism and radicalisation presented in October 2016. In other words, it is quite specifically about countering extremist propaganda and preventing online radicalisation. In future, the police will have the opportunity, following a court order, not to remove, but to block websites if violations of the criminal code's terrorist regulations are committed. The authorities can already do so in relation to Danish websites, but now it also happens in relation to websites located abroad. Then we go for public services to be stopped and repaid. As I said, Danish taxpayers should not be used to finance terrorist activities. All in all, good elements that we in the Conservative People's Party support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509153806	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509153810	Thank you. Thank you for the predominantly positive reception of the bill. The government is concerned to ensure that we can continue to take firm action against religious radicalisation, extremism and foreign warriors. The legislative proposal before us today therefore aims to implement a number of the points set out in the national action plan on preventing and combating extremism and radicalisation, which was presented in October 2016. The action plan shall include, inter alia: A number of initiatives aimed, on the one hand, at countering extremist propaganda and preventing online radicalisation, and, on the other hand, at continuing the hard course towards foreign warriors, which will make it less attractive for residents to travel as foreign warriors. In concrete terms, therefore, the bill contains, firstly, an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that a new provision is introduced to allow the police, following a court order, to block websites if violations of the criminal code's terrorist regulations and the criminal code's provisions on harassment and target designation of public employees are committed on the Internet on the website. The authorities can already seize Danish websites today. What the draft law is basically about at this point is ensuring that the authorities have equivalent access to take action against websites located abroad. This will ensure that we have better protection against, in particular, terrorist propaganda and terrorist acts on the Internet. Secondly, the bill contains amendments to a number of laws to ensure that the payment of public services to foreign warriors can be stopped by the authorities. The proposal also ensures that, where benefits have been paid, the authorities can recover them. The proposed amendments are therefore designed to prevent foreign warriors from financing their stay in conflict zones with public services; on the one hand, we are creating a safer and more effective procedure in cases of cessation or reimbursement of services which already have a certain possibility of involving them, and on the other hand we are creating a legal basis for stopping or refunding a number of additional services which are currently not authorised to be included at all. With those comments, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their speeches and for their positive reception, and I look forward to the further consideration in this Chamber and also to answering questions in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154047	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154100	The debate is open. Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154122	The purpose of the bill here is to postpone the revision of Section 786 of the Code of Procedure. 4, on the logging of telecommunications data from the parliamentary year 2016-17 to the parliamentary year 2017-18. The proposed postponement is due to the decision of the European Court of Justice on 21 December on the compatibility of British and Swedish logging rules with Union law. This is a proposal that we in the Social Democratic Party can support, but at the same time I would say that we see logging as an extremely important tool for the police. And that is why it is crucial even that we in Denmark ensure that the police can use logging as a tool for preventing, combating and solving crime. So, while we support the proposal here today, we would urge the Minister of Justice to ensure that the Danish authorities have access to the necessary tools in the fight against crime quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154244	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154248	We have now been told by the European Court of Justice, just before Christmas last year, that the logging, mass surveillance of all Danes is illegal. What do you usually do when something's illegal? You usually stop doing that. That is why we should also do the only logical thing here, namely to cancel the logging order, the legislation on which the current illegal mass surveillance is based. Why don't we take the simple step of having legislation that allows something right now, namely mass surveillance, which has been declared illegal to stop doing so by cancelling the logging order?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154335	I know the Danish logging has not been declared illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154341	This concerns the Tele2-Watson case, where the decision relates, inter alia, to the Tele2-Watson case. a telecommunications company from Sweden is convicted of illegal logging. We have a similar logging in Denmark, which is teleloging. That means that when I use my phone and call, it gets registered on a mast where I am, what number I call when I do it and when I hang up. It's telelogy. We have currently talked about making other types of extensions of logging: mast logging, data logging, and there are various other variants. But the logging we are doing today is actually illegal, and that is clear from the verdict.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154421	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154423	So, I know there has been no judgment on the Danish model, but that does not change what I have said in my speech: that we believe logging is a crucial tool for the police to combat crime. That is what other countries in the European Union think, and that is why the democratic process in this is, of course, that we, together with the other countries, who also very much want to have access to these tools, go to the European Union and ensure that there is a legal basis both for having the current legislation but also for extending it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154501	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Tilde Bork, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154507	Thank you. The purpose of this bill is to postpone the revision of Section 786 of the Code of Procedure. 4 on the logging of telecommunications data for the parliamentary year 2016-2017 for the parliamentary year 2017-2018. It is now a recurring event here in the Folketing. The reason why the bill is proposed to postpone the review is that in December 2016, the European Court of Justice issued a ruling on the so-called Tele2 case. In order to ensure that the revision of the Danish logging rules is in line with EU law, it is therefore proposed that more time be allocated to review the judgment and its consequences, in order to correct the Danish logging rules. This is common sense in many ways, and in the Danish People's Party we hope that the Minister will get some new negotiations on our logging rules started as soon as possible, so that we ensure the best framework for Danish police and PET. With these words, I can inform you that the Danish People's Party supports the bill and we look forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154610	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154614	The rapporteur himself said that this is an area in which the review has been postponed over and over again. Doesn't DF think that if something has been declared illegal, then that practice should be stopped? Regardless of the comments made by the Social Democrats' rapporteur, our logging legislation is so close to the case where the logging judgment has fallen that it is clear that it is not legal. Otherwise, you wouldn't change it. So does the DF's rapporteur not think that we should stop what has been declared illegal, namely to carry out mass monitoring of the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154658	I agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur. As far as I am aware, the Danish logging rules have not been declared illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154706	Then it's mr. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154715	The judgment is, of course, about whether the Member States of the European Union should, so to speak, absorb the telecommunications and Internet data of all citizens about who they have been communicating with and where they have gone. There the European Court of Justice has made it clear that the Member States must not do so. Are we doing that in Denmark today? Yes, we do. We'll do it through the logging order where we have teleloging. What would the most logical step be to take when you have been told for the second time in a row that you are doing something illegal? That would be to stop illegal surveillance. So isn't that what we should be doing in this case? In this case, it is the European Court of Justice that has reached the judgment. I am very anxious to see what the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg might find out at some point. I believe that it will deliver a judgment directly following the preliminary ruling by the European Court of Justice in two cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154811	After all, we cannot really answer what the Court of Human Rights will say to everything, but as I have said before, the Danish logging rules have not yet been declared illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154825	We thank Mrs Tilde Bork and move on to the rapporteur's report. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509154836	Thank you. What we have to decide here in the Danish Parliament today is whether the revision of the logging rules can be postponed for a year, and there is certainly good reason for saying so. It is true, as other rapporteurs have said, that the European Court of Justice delivered a judgment of 21 December 2016, which has also been mentioned by other rapporteurs here. It is a judgment which I certainly cannot say is in accordance with EU law. At the same time, however, I have to say that it is a verdict that is disastrous for Danish police and European police investigations, not for investigation into shoplifting and other petty matters, but for investigation into the very, very common cases: drugs, abduction, trafficking in women, you name it. With regard to all these cases, following this sentence, the police will not be able to use, for example, mast information: where was the person concerned at the time of the crime in question? Such information may not be logged by the telecommunications companies in accordance with the judgment. I can anticipate the questions that have already been put to other rapporteurs: yes, I think that the Danish rules are similar to those in other countries. Of course, I have not studied the rules of the other countries, but I think they are the same. Therefore, one might ask whether the judgment does not also have an effect on Danish rules. Yes, I think that will be the case. Is it so reasonable that we maintain a rule of law that the European Court of Justice has declared invalid? No, you can question this very much, and you can also question whether a Danish judge will judge by Danish rules when the European Court of Justice has said otherwise. I do not think we can question that very much. In fact, I doubt it can be done. Having said that, however, the Minister for Justice has already, in consultation, explained in detail how things are in other situations, situations in which the European Court of Justice has opposed provisions of Danish law. It is not the case that it has been said that there are now five minutes, and then you have to repeal Danish legislation. There was, I think, a matter of vacation money rights where you were or was it the Supreme Court? I think that is quite what we are asking for here, namely to have time to look at how we are going to set the rules now after the new judgment. Because, as I said at the outset, I must honestly admit that it is running down my back when it comes to the possibilities of investigating the very, very common crimes when I see this sentence lying in front of me. But there is no doubt, and I also read the verdict of the previous authors. It speaks of the fact that the kind of logging we have carried out in general and undefined terms is illegal. That is why it must cease. That is why I welcome the Minister of Justice and other Ministers of Justice in Europe in order to establish equally effective rules that meet the criteria set out by the European Court of Justice. Unfortunately, I believe that this is something close to an impossible task, and I can only repeat what I said: it seems to me to be a disaster for the investigation of the most serious cases. I think that when the verdict fell on 21.12.2016, there has been a party at the Mafia, a party at the biker clubs at home, because now the police are not coming after them to the same extent and with the same efficiency as before. So good luck to the country's Minister of Justice. I hope that an effective remedy can be found. After all, the Court of Justice opens a door on the grounds that it allows the logging of telecommunications data relating to certain categories of persons for certain periods of time and in certain geographical areas. Thank you. After all, there is little need for it if a man has been killed in Valby on Thursday, so today we are told that we can start logging forward today. I doubt the perpetrator's going back there with his cell phone. After all, the means of investigation that was at stake was to obtain information about which telephone was there, including which telephone was not there at the time of the crime. That is what becomes deeply, deeply problematic. So I'm very pessimistic, but I'm glad to know that the Minister of Justice is taking this very, very seriously. There is reason for this too, because it will be a serious piece of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155319	There are a few brief comments, first from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155322	So you do not need to be a criminal or a rocker to have the opposite view of the Left's rapporteur or also to think that there is a value in a privacy and that the limits of that privacy can be violated via data and metadata from mast information where it can be seen exactly where you have been. Well, that was just a bit of an upset comment, because I think we were all shot in the shoes, that we were then criminals. My question is actually quite sincere and particularly to the rapporteur of the Left, because the rapporteur of the Left is also very good in the legal field and is himself a lawyer: if this judgment says and the rapporteur says himself that he considers that it also has an effect on Denmark • that these telecommunications data which are logged are illegal and that they are not compatible with EU law when they are unlawfully collected, which they will certainly be, even if they are not, according to Danish law, they will then be able to be used in legal proceedings if, for example, they are collected illegally. Does the European Court of Justice completely end up?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155435	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155437	Oh, I'm glad I don't have to judge the case, but I'm asked how I think it's gonna work out. As I said at the outset, I do not think that, if we have a legislative provision that is in force here in Denmark, and at the same time we have an EU judgment that says that it is invalid, we can get it forced into court here in Europe. But at the same time I must also say, as the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrat rapporteur have also said, that I cannot guarantee that this is the same situation we are talking about. The Tele2 judgment spoke, as I recall, about the situation in England and the situation in Sweden. I cannot say for sure that this is the same thing in Denmark. But if it is the same rules that apply in Denmark, i.e. if we have the same logging rules as they do in the two countries, then I have to say that there is a legal controversy which I believe will actually occur that we cannot force the rules here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155534	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155536	Thank you for that very honest answer. For that is something I have thought of, that is to say, that we are maintaining a legal state in Denmark which is not in accordance with EU law. At least there is a very high probability of that, and now there is a lot of logging data, i.e. teledata that is logged, but it will most likely have no time on land in a trial because EU law says that it is simply illegally collected material, evidence, or what you would call it. But thank you for an as always sober speech, perhaps just apart from the prayer of prayer. But thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155618	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155620	I have to say that I cannot guarantee that it is illegally collected material. I can only repeat what the rapporteurs of the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party had to say, so that we cannot be sure that the EU judgment, the Tele2 judgment, is directly analogous and applicable to the Danish situation. But at least I admit that it is a very, very difficult position in legal terms. But calm in the camp, I am just about to say, because we are going to take a position on this, and the Minister for Justice has, in consultation, indicated that in this year's time I mentioned before, there will be new rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155653	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155656	I would like to start by thanking you for a slightly more sober rapporteur's speech than the one we heard from the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, which claimed that this judgment should have no effect on Danish affairs. It is, of course, quite wrong, even when you look at how the judgment makes it difficult for monitoring to include, as it says, all persons using electronic communications services without these people, not even indirectly, being in a situation that could give rise to criminal prosecution. And the European Court of Justice goes on to say that mass surveillance therefore exceeds what is strictly necessary and cannot be considered justified in a democratic society. That is also what is behind the mass surveillance in Denmark that we currently have through the teleloging. I feel that it is unacceptable and deeply unpleasant for us, as citizens of a democratic society, to be monitored without there being any likelihood that we would ever commit crime or without even being in the eye of the police. Is this not a liberal view which the Liberal Party of Denmark, the Left, should support and thus annul the logging order?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155808	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155810	I can start by confirming that, sir. Rune Lund quotes from the verdict. That is to say, more squarely, it speaks of the fact that a general and undefined logging of all citizens is contrary to EU law. That is absolutely correct. It is then asked whether the practice that we have been running in Denmark and that we are still running for another year is not contrary to a liberal attitude. I can follow the game of words, but I must say that we, as liberals, will do everything in our power to ensure that criminals, including those with the most serious crimes in their luggage, are caught, and this is therefore a very, very effective means. I have to say that one has to put up with the fact that one's information is logged for a shorter period of time. As far as I remember, it is for one year somewhere where it is not open and for everyone's use. The end justifies the means in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155904	Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155908	However, is it not deeply problematic that, in a society based on law and order, we have a ruling from the European Court of Justice that says that the mass surveillance that we are doing and the principles on which it is based, which are also the principles on which it is based in Denmark, is illegal? And yet we have a Minister of Justice and a majority of the people who say that you don't care about that; even if it's illegal, you just keep doing mass surveillance. I think it is an absurd situation that we are in. The logical consequence of doing something illegal is to stop making it illegal. We could thus cancel the legislation that exists today and instead create a more targeted solution, which is also what the judgment opens up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155948	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509155949	No, the government cares. It would be deeply, deeply problematic if the government did not care about a ruling by the European Court of Justice. I can only point out that the Minister has spent several hours in a consultation where he has just emphasized that he was certainly not indifferent and that he and the government will, of course, conform to the judgment. I just have to say that it is not the case that, four nanoseconds after the judgment has been served, we can go out and change Danish legislation. The Minister is doing what he can, and I have heard a 12-month term, and it should be within what is usually used in a similar context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160025	Thank you, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160047	Mass monitoring of citizens is illegal. This was confirmed by the European Court of Justice before Christmas last year in a judgment of principle, the so-called Tele2-Watsondom, and this time the European Court of Justice will spell it out. As early as 2014, the Court of Justice ruled that mass surveillance was illegal. At that time, the Danish government ignored the verdict. Now we have a situation in which the mass surveillance to which the state exposes all citizens in Denmark is illegal, and we have a Minister of Justice who is chairman of a self-appointed legislative and order party, and so it should not be so difficult to draw the logical conclusion, namely to abolish the current illegal mass surveillance. It is actually amazing that right now we have a government headed by a Minister of Justice who is continuing, with open eyes, illegal mass surveillance of all of us. This is a democratic scandal. I had expected that the government would declare clearly that it would drop all its plans for further measures of illegal mass surveillance • the plans that the government has worked with so far and I had expected that the government would correct when Denmark was told that the surveillance we are doing is illegal. Because I find it deeply problematic that in a democratic society we have such a massive record of who we communicate with, when we do it and how long we do it. I think it is unpleasant and unacceptable that in a rule of law we should put up with constantly being monitored without being suspected of having done anything criminal, and I should like to admit that it is a complex sense of joy for me and for the Enhedslisten that it is precisely the European Court of Justice that must knock Denmark into place in order to ensure respect for fundamental democratic principles. But that doesn't change the fact that the verdict is right. Instead of illegal mass surveillance, we must limit surveillance to people who are suspected of committing crime. We must carry out targeted monitoring and we must have a system that can be set up quickly when such monitoring is to be initiated, and the existing rules for a judge to approve the monitoring must, of course, continue. In this way, we can have both a teleloging, a mast logging or other forms of logging as technology opportunities are expanded, but this must be done on the basis of the principles that it is a targeted logging, a targeted monitoring and not a mass surveillance of innocent citizens. Today, in Denmark, we have mass surveillance of all citizens. You are registered via a telephone mast every time you call or send a text message or a mms, and the monitoring exists via the so-called login notice. It's pretty simple what to do when you get a verdict against you for the second time, and when you've also known that this verdict was probably on the way. The small grip is simply to cancel the logging notice that exists because it is it that makes us carry out illegal mass surveillance. Instead of that, we should work to set up a new system quickly. But the situation we have, where we have illegal mass surveillance, and where a majority in the Folketing simply accepts the state of affairs without cancelling the illegal mass surveillance that is taking place, is simply a democratic scandal, and therefore the Enhedslisten cannot support this bill. We need action now. We need to put the legislation in order so that no illegal acts are committed by the state. We need legislation to ensure that there is no illegal mass monitoring of citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160442	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160449	Thank you. I just want to ask you, how does Mr. Rune Lund stated that the police should be able to investigate the most serious crimes, child abductions, drugs, rape, etc. Just as effectively in the world Rune Lund wants, namely it without the duty of the telecommunications companies to keep logging?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160513	You could say that it's not even Rune Lund's world, it's the world it is. It is the law as it stands, the law that the government and the majority of the people should comply with. The mass surveillance that is taking place is illegal, and that is why it should stop. That should be the starting point for today's debate. Then it is true that it presents us with some challenges. After all, it is simply a discussion about how much monitoring we have to do to the citizens in order to guarantee citizens' freedoms. It is the case that if we all had a chip implanted in our arms and we could be watched around the clock by the intelligence services, yes, then the police would have the best chance of investigating crime. It's just not the kind of society we want. The border must be drawn somewhere, and the European Court of Justice has now, in two stages, drawn the border in a very clear place and said that the mass surveillance that we have is illegal, and we should follow that in our view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160612	I just have to ask again, and let me make it a little more specific: if in the world which the European Court of Justice is calling for there to be in the future, where this kind of logging cannot take place, a murder happened last week, how does Rune Lund think that the police should obtain mast information on who was in the area in question? That information, after the verdict, is no longer available to the telecommunications companies. Can't Rune Lund see that this is causing extremely heavy problems in the police investigation, and is that satisfactory?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160648-2	One can start by discussing whether it is satisfactory or not satisfactory, but it is the case that the legislation needs to be adapted if we are to comply with the judgment that exists if we are to comply with the ruling of the European Court of Justice. But it is true that if there are no people who commit this crime, with which the questioner exemplifies, who are already subject to targeted surveillance, then it will not be possible to have the kind of data that we have today. And everything else equal, it'll be a tool less for the police. I recognize that. I am just saying that in a democratic society where we are based on democratic values, we also have to set limits on what mass monitoring we can do by citizens, and that border has been set by the European Court of Justice. And that is really where the discussion has to start.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160742	Then we can thank the rapporteur and move forward. This is Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160751	Thank you, President. In the Liberal Alliance, we have the feeling of logging that, on the one hand, we fully recognise it as an important tool for the police in investigating crimes. On the other hand, we are sceptical about the general and broad logging, i.e. logging data from ordinary law-abiding citizens who are not suspected of having committed anything criminal. Then why? Yes, because as we live our lives more and more digitally, we also leave behind more and more digital tracks, and therefore it is vulnerable to the right to privacy if there is an inproper collection of data about our movements. This is why, from our point of view, it is a matter of establishing the rules in a way that ensures, on the one hand, that the police have the tools they need and, on the other hand, that we also respect the right of law-abiding citizens to privacy. It is sensible to postpone the revision of these provisions in order to bring the legislation into line with the EU judgment that many have already mentioned. That is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160914	There is one brief comment. Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509160918	Thank you. The rapporteur has said a lot of good things over the years about mass monitoring and so on. I remember that we had the discussion about the reinstatement of session logging, where Mrs Christina Egelund also said that it was mass surveillance and that the reinstatement was under the former Minister of Justice... the Liberal Alliance would not be able to support. It must, of course, be the obvious question to the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur whether this kind of logging of telecommunications data is at all desirable. Because if you think that it is going too far, that is to say that the mass surveillance is simply of all citizens, then there is no reason at all to delay, then there is no reason to say that we will have to look at it in the autumn. Then you just have to comply with the European Court of Justice and say: we are dropping it. So what does the Liberal Alliance think? I understand that there is government participation and so on, but should we continue logging teledata, or should we continue it in a different form?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161027	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161029	But that is true, and I think that is what I said in my rapporteur's speech, that we are sceptical about what we call mass monitoring and about the broad logging of data from people who are not suspected of having done anything. We have meant that for a long time, and we still think so. That is one consideration. On the other hand, we also recognise, and we have said so as long as I can remember, that this is an important tool for the police. In balancing these two considerations, we need to set up rules that make sense. Exactly how we define this, I simply cannot answer today, and I am not alone in deciding that. But I recognise that the Liberal Alliance has always done so that there are these two opposing considerations in which we must then find some sort of reasonable proportion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161119	I fully agree that these are two considerations that are contrary to each other. Then the question is: if there are only the two options, which weighs so heavily. I know what the SF's position is there, and I also think I can guess what the Liberal Alliance's position is, it has at least been clear before. But then there is the third possibility that you will find a significantly restricted version of the logging of telecommunications data. But then we must also accept that not all people in this country can be monitored, and that is not what we should be doing in the light of the considerations that I think we share. And then it might also have some cost for the police's work. Just to get it clear: the Liberal Alliance still believes that it is mass surveillance if you log the data from all Danes or most of the population and not just a selected group you have in the binoculars?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161213	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161214	The questioner actually outlines this dilemma in a nutshell, and I actually think we see it quite the same. On the specific issue, I would say: yes, that is my position, and it is the position of the Liberal Alliance that if data from citizens who are not suspected of having done anything wrong is systematically logged, it is an inproper monitoring of our movements, especially as we live our lives more and more digitally and therefore leave more and more digital tracks behind. So I think there are some real dilemmas in this, and that is also what the EU judgment says, so that you have to find the cut somewhere between a sensible tool for the police on the one hand and on the other that you do not monitor everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161303	Thank you. The next question is Mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161307	From the point of view of the Liberal Alliance, what will it look like if we get to this point next year and no solution has been found to this problem, that is, that there is no majority in Parliament that has found a new model of how to make targeted monitoring of citizens in those areas and at the times when it is relevant, rather than the current illegal mass surveillance? How will the Liberal Alliance deal with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161338	But that situation does not arise, because finding a solution to this situation is a bottom-up task. And I just have to say that I think the Enhedslisten might swing up a little bit and use the great blade today rhetorically and are impatient in relation to when the government adjusts the rules according to this judgment. These are not completely uncomplicated rules and, as I said before to the SF rapporteur, there are some real dilemmas, at least in this and some considerations that need to be carefully weighed down. And there I think the proper thing to do is to take the time and find out how we can make the rules so that they both take account of the judgment and also weigh up the considerations that I also believe Enhedslisten agrees that we have to find a balance. It does not say anywhere in the EU judgment that you have to cancel the applicable Danish rules on the day after the judgment has fallen. So there is no date on which to correct it. Now the government is working to bring the rules into line, and various studies have already been started on how to do so. Similar work is being done in other countries of Europe, and that is the proper way to do this. In other words, we need to weigh up our hurry, given that we have good rules that everyone can live with, both the citizens who have to live with some kind of monitoring, but also the companies and the industry that have to carry out this for us. In fact, I think that the worst thing we can do in this situation is either to cancel the rules we have or also to quickly implement something that will be sloppy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161505	You push right in if you want one more question. Sir. Rune Lund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161512	However, if the government had not messed with the 2014 EU judgment and continued illegal mass surveillance, it would have had plenty of time to change the rules. And now there was another verdict which for the second time stated that the mass surveillance we have here at home is illegal. In fact, we are very concerned about citizens' personal freedom and the right to privacy and to a private sphere. We see it as a fundamental foundation in a democratic state that you as a citizen can be free from mass surveillance by the state. And now that we have been told that it is illegal, we think it is very simple that we stop doing so and then, of course, rush to find a new solution. We simply find it unacceptable that people should continue to be subject to mass surveillance, which is illegal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161555	But it's not illegal. And I have to admit, I think the Enhedslisten is handling this awfully dramatically. There has been a judgment which means that we have to bring Danish legislation into force. That is what we are going to do, and that is where we must do our job well. Because we also have a position on the need to have a "Enhedslisten', and I think that is what Enhedslisten thinks; that is what you tend to do, at least, to make a clear legal basis to operate within, both in relation to the citizens who are being monitored, but also in relation to the companies, that is, the telecommunications industry, which has to deal with it here. I simply do not understand the view that when there is a judgment, the day after or 2 days after or 1 week after, or I do not know what would then make sense in Enhedslisten's optics, vupti, pull some new rules out of the drawer. In fact, I think this area is too serious to polemicise about. I think we should have respect for the fact that we should look at this and have a proper process in which we weigh up the various concerns that have been raised by several of us. In fact, I think that is more important than dramatizing over time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161703	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. And the next is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161710	Thank you. One could easily have sympathy for Mrs Christina Egelund's views, if it were not because it was the fifth time that Denmark chose to postpone a revision of the clause on the logging rules, and then becomes And we have the ruling of the European Court of Justice as from 21 December 2016, so it is not because it was the day before yesterday that decision fell. And I know that right now we are waiting for some guidance from the European Union. However, the decision in this so-called Tele2 case on the British and Swedish logging rules describes very well the opposition of the alternative to the extensive mass monitoring and collection of all subscribers' data in Denmark. We are simply opposed to this in principle. Then you can discuss a balance in relation to police work and mass surveillance. However, we have a ruling from the European Union that says that it is illegal and we have to respect that. And that is why we also believe that the Minister for Justice should listen to the critical voices from the Institute for Human Rights, the IT-Politic Association and the Judicial Policy Association in the hearing responses. We think it is unacceptable in a democracy with the rule of law to maintain legislation that has been overruled by the European Court of Justice. After all, we are a member of the European Union. So it's worrying that with this bill, the Minister of Justice hasn't put a time horizon in front of the Folketing... that's another thing. We don't really know when that's gonna happen. Now Mrs Christina Egelund says that this will happen in the next assembly. Can we get a guarantee? In any case, we would very much like that. That would help our position in relation to this bill. In the Alternative, we recommend that the Minister for Justice listen to the answers and repeal the login notice with immediate effect, while Danish we find out what new rules should apply to logging in Denmark. We should take some temporary consequences of the judgment of the European Court of Justice. It is not acceptable to continue illegal mass surveillance. That is why, as things stand at the moment, we cannot vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161937	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left, who is on the way at great speed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509161948	Thank you. Nor can we support the proposal. It has been up for discussion before, and we were discussing whether it is the fifth, sixth or seventh time, and every time there are such good explanations about whether it is a judgment or whether it is because you want to coordinate it with other countries or you don't have enough experience but it starts to become problematic when we talk so many times and we talk so many years. It was back in 2006 that it was agreed that the rules should be looked at again and revised, and now we are in 2017. Well, at the end of the day, it seems like bad excuses for not doing anything. With regard to the fire speeches made by both the rapporteur of the Left and the Social Democrat rapporteur from up here, I would like to say that I also believe that this is an important instrument, but it is possible to set up the legislation in a way that still allows it to be used as an instrument, but so that it does not lead to mass monitoring. But it sounded as if it is so crucial that we are almost willing to compromise on fundamental values and rights, because that is what is at stake here, knowing that we have a verdict against those rules and that we have repeatedly decided to postpone the revision of those rules. We will no longer be involved in this, so we cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509162127	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509162140	On 18 April, one of my colleagues from SF was in Hillerød, and he doesn't have to look in his calendar to see that it was exactly that day. He can see this on the encrypted CD sent to him when he had applied for access to his own logging data, and there he could see the hundreds, the thousands, of times, data had been logged on him as on all other Danes. On average, it was 20 times a day, a little depending on whether he was sitting at home on a Saturday or whether he was out on the streets and alleys. Such an image gives a fairly detailed insight into where one is going, where one is, whether there are deviations from daily routines, and in particular along with over 5 million other Danes' data it starts to give a picture of something. Many people have said that this is a dilemma because, on the one hand, it is mass surveillance of the Danes, at least the logging of telecommunications data, and, on the other hand, it is a tool for the police. But if you follow that argument completely, you can say that there will be no end to the surveillance that we could introduce in the name of security, i.e. implant microchips on all of us, have even more video camera surveillance than we already have. And the Attorney General sits down here laughing because it sounds a little crazy, but it's not. That is the development we are heading for. In addition to the logging of telecommunications data, we also had a Minister of Justice who wanted to introduce session logging, and we continue to discuss where the limits of privacy lie. Because every time the state can know more about us, there are potentially better tools to solve a crime. And the safest place to stay should therefore be in a police state. That must be the logical consequence of it. It is not to indulge in the fact that there are perfectly legitimate dilemmas in this, but one must also say, if one is defending this sight-punt, here and no longer have to go the limit. Because every interference in our privacy can point to a potential gain in solving, in preventing terrorist attacks, or what do I know? That is why I believe that if we are laughing at us, who say that we also have to think about citizens' privacy and data, it does not even have to be concrete data about us, it can also be metadata and data that show a comprehensive picture and they say that we do not take the safety of our citizens seriously, then we should also get on the ground and say that we also have a limit on how far we want to go in the name of security. I simply do not believe that this will create security in the long term. I think it creates insecurity. After all, there is research that shows that only the certainty that you are being watched, even if that monitoring is not being used for anything, causes people to change their behavior. That's why I think we should be very careful about this. One is what we all like about logging telecommunications data, another is that we have the European Court of Justice's word that it is incompatible with EU law. It simply goes far too far in relation to the citizen's right to privacy. The tele2 judgment is clear, it is ready for bells, and therefore it should also be obvious to say: well then, of course, we will stop what is the illegal practice, and then we will try to see if we can make a much more narrow focus on monitoring where it is relevant, where it is proportional, where there are some people who are suspected. So the SF can't support this proposal. We cannot support extending for half-and-a-half years what has been extended seven times. The revision has been extended seven times; it is quite crazy when we have even been told by the European Court of Justice that that practice is not compatible with the right of citizens to privacy and the right not to have their data monitored to the extent that we have seen it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509162648	Thank you to the rapporteur. So we've reached the Minister of Justice. Perhaps the Minister is also speaking on behalf of the Conservative People's Party or at least not saying the opposite. Here you go, the floor is the minister's.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509162703	Thank you. I am absolutely convinced that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill, but I am not going to deal with that here. Thank you for that predominantly positive reception. At least there is a solid majority in the Things that backs it up, I can hear. The bill is about one thing: a postponement of the revision of the current Danish logging rules to the next parliamentary assembly. That is what we are discussing, and I have found that we are also discussing a lot more, but that is what the draft law is about. The reason is, of course, that we want to create the time needed for thorough investigation, in view of the fact that the European Court of Justice delivered its judgment on 21 December 2016 in the so-called Tele2 case on the compatibility of the Swedish and British logging rules with EU law. The judgment in the Tele2 case raises, as the rapporteurs know, a major issue in relation to the way in which the logging rules in the EU countries are now linked. Of course, a solution must be found to this problem, not only in Denmark but also in the other countries concerned. In the view of the government, this should be a solution that is in line with EU law and which, at the same time, ensures that the police have access to the logged information they need in specific investigations. That is why both we in Denmark and our colleagues in the other Member States as well as the European Commission are considering how the logging rules should be designed in the future. It is important for us to know more about how the European Commission interprets the judgment and what the other Member States intend to do, so that we do not, as the first ones, simply act blindly. In this connection, I would like to mention that the Maltese Presidency has set up a working group to look at the consequences of the judgment, and the Commission has indicated that guidelines will be drawn up on how the rules on logging can be adapted in the future. In addition, we must ensure that any new rules can operate technically outside the telecommunications companies and do not impose higher costs on companies than is necessary. I think it is important that we hit it right in the first attempt. No one has any interest in us embarking on adopting rules that we will have to change afterwards. All in all, this means that we can only table a legislative proposal on the revision of the logging rules in the next parliamentary year, and with those comments I would like to thank you for the speeches and look forward to further consideration and, of course, are available for questions now and during committee work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509162941	There's just a few. It's first, sir. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509162946	Thank you. First of all, I should like to thank the Minister for having taken over a commitment which I had to Mr Seligman. Naser Khader, to greet the Conservative People's Party and say that they agree with the government and the Left. It is problematic to be a smaller party when there is so much to deal with here at Christiansborg. Thank you. My question to the Minister is in relation to the EU judgment, which, of course, opens this cat door. It allows the logging of telecommunications information relating to certain categories of persons for certain periods of time and specific geographical areas. I just want to make sure that in the negotiations which the Minister is going to have in Brussels, the Minister is aware that this may be a formulation that is useless in modern investigations. I mean, if the murder, as I said in my speech, was committed on Thursday and then you set up mast logging here afterwards, then it is not easy to catch the criminals. Is the Minister aware of that view?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163052	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163054	I'm so aware of that, and I'm really gonna get puzzled when I think about how this is gonna get screwed up? It's gonna be a big challenge. It is good that we have good officials. Then we must also hope that we have skilled politicians who will in due course make this work. I think this is a huge challenge, and I should not hide it from a huge challenge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163115	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163120	Thank you. It's just very short. Will the Minister then guarantee that the change that will then be expected will come to the next session of the Assembly, i.e. In 2017-18?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163130	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163135	Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163139	It was nice to have such a guarantee. We thank you. Some of us are so excited about what that legislation will look like. For now it is quite clear that in two rounds we have been told that mass surveillance of everything and not everyone is legal. So we need to do a very targeted monitoring so that we do not monitor everyone and therefore not monitor people who have never committed or are going to commit crime in our society. But we must then live another year with an illegal surveillance which may be used in the case of evidence in the courts of the country. How does the Ministry of Justice feel about the fact that the collection of data and their use in the courts of the country can be used as a basis for judgments? It must, of course, create a very uncertain legal situation around the country's courts that some of their judgments must be based on the collection of data which is actually known illegally. How do we deal with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163248	Well, I know there are cases in this Parliament that are triggering something more than others. I think that the drama button has been completely turned up under this proposal today. It is as if this is the first time in history that we have ever seen that there is a proposal that we have to look at and correct after a judgment has been passed. There's been a verdict. Now we have a period to adjust to it. We even have the Supreme Court's word for that is true. So I'm comfortable with getting criminals locked up, and hopefully we can do that once we have changed the logging rules.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163335	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163335-2	I don't know if we have the Supreme Court's word for it. We are dealing with a matter which is very simple and which can therefore be implemented very quickly, namely the cancellation of the logging notice. There is no need to do all sorts of studies and analyses of what is illegal in Denmark at the moment: it is the current mass surveillance that is illegal. It is the current collection of data, which will also be used by courts in connection with the issuing of judgments that are illegal. The fact that we have illegal mass surveillance at the moment, which will also be used in the Danish courts, creates a huge legal problem. The Minister of Justice must admit that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163415-2	I am just referring to the fact that in the past there has been a judgment before the European Court of Justice, and then you have had a period to see how it is now organised. There has been a case before the Supreme Court, where the Supreme Court has clearly indicated that there is a certain period of time, and so is the case here. So what I need to hear today from those who think this is the biggest scandal in the world and that you have to drop this now is whether you really think there should be a hole where nothing is going on from now on until you have new rules. I just think that's crazy. There's someone who thinks that. It's about our safety. You don't have to be long in the job I have now to get some pretty clear views on this, I just want to say. And I am very surprised that this is not part of the debate and that we are not thinking at all: hey, there we are leaving a huge hole and free play. I simply cannot understand that, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163516	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163522	I think it is crazy that we have a Minister of Justice who says: yes, there has been a judgment in the European Court of Justice saying that this is incompatible with EU law. There is certainly a great risk that the logged data will not be used at all in a trial because it is illegally collected material. I think the Minister for Justice should deal with that too. In a court case, a judge has to decide that there is an EU judgment saying that this is contrary to citizens' fundamental rights; it is mass surveillance. We even heard from the Left's own rapporteur that it could be a problem when we have to weigh some things in court. So, you can have some evidence collected and you can see some telecommunications data logged, but can they be used when another body, the European Court of Justice, has said that it is incompatible with citizens' fundamental rights? I think it's crazy for a Minister of Justice to say such a nonchalant: just go ahead with an illegal practice. That's one thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163632	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163633	Law is law, and law must be kept, and until the law is changed, the applicable law in Denmark applies, and that is what the courts are going for. There has then been a ruling by the European Court of Justice, which we are looking at in Denmark together with a number of other countries. And if the European Court of Justice had now completely ignored the possibility of even requiring logging, then a lifting would have been the right step. But that is not what this is about. It is a question of finding a way for the logging rules to be forward-looking. And that's why it would be crazy to repeal the rules. Why would we do that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163708	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163710	The verdict is clear: it is illegal mass surveillance to log the telecommunications data of all citizens. It is not very complicated, and I think it is actually a bit appalling that the Minister for Justice says that it is a little bit on the one hand and on the other hand and that it can be interpreted in many ways. No, it can't. There are also a large number of organisations, including the Institute for Human Rights, who believe that it is deeply worrying that the Minister for Justice is proposing to maintain a legal state that is incompatible with the fundamental rights of the European Union for a still unknown period of time. For what we could do was say: We follow the law and drop the logging of teledata because it is illegal. And when the Minister of Justice constantly refers to a Supreme Court ruling, I would say that it deals with holiday money. This may not be the same level as mass monitoring of citizens by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163802	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163804	I stand proudly and joyfully at the goal that the Danes know that until we have new legislation in this area, the old rules continue for the sake of our security and our security. And then you can disagree with whether it is right or wrong. I just think it's crazy what it would mean if you canceled these logging rules tomorrow and had to wait until there are some new rules. I just think that's crazy doesn't make any impression on the Danish left, and it's as if you don't want to relate to it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163838	With that, we can thank the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Legal Affairs Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163858	The debate is open and we start with the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509163923	Thank you for that and thank the proposers for a relevant proposal to amend the Building Conservation Act. That law, as you know, is about how we protect and preserve buildings and urban environments that have a very special value for us and that we will not lose, but preserve for posterity. With the bill, the proposers will implement two amendments to the Building Conservation Act. Firstly, we want to change the professional composition of the Special Building View, and secondly, the proposers want to introduce a decision-making option for the Minister of Culture outside the Special Building View when deciding on the demolition of a listed building built after the first world war, which acts as a state or state-recognised museum. I certainly think that the draft law raises some relevant issues which I agree with a long way along the way. I think it is quite relevant to look at whether the professional composition of the Special Building View is the right one today. The building survey is, of course, a professional body which advises the Minister for Culture in the field of building conservation, and therefore the skills represented in the building survey are of course important for the advice given. I agree with the authors of the motion for a resolution that the cultural history of professionalism in the Special Buildings View should be strengthened, and this can be done in a number of different ways. I propose that the building vision be extended with an additional member who has a cultural historical background. This will create a better balance between architects and cultural historians in the Special Building View. With enlargement, the building vision will in future consist of 13 members with different professional skills, particularly those in the field of cultural history and architecture. I also agree that it is a good idea to create a decision-making facility for the Minister of Culture in cases of demolition of protected buildings. Today it is the case that building vision can veto cases of demolition of protected buildings. That is why there can be no complaint to the Minister for Culture, and I agree that we must create that right of appeal. Such a right of appeal already exists in respect of matters relating to the conservation of buildings and to changes in buildings. It is, in fact, an illogical reminiscence, it can be said, that the right of appeal does not exist in demolition proceedings. By removing the right of veto of the Special Office in demolition cases, a parallelity is created between the handling of demolition and defense cases, so that both types of proceedings can be appealed to the Minister of Culture, while the building vision is heard before a decision is taken. I think that will make the law both logical and rigorous. So I propose that the scheme should apply in all demolition cases, and not only in cases of buildings built after World War I, which are used for museums. In this way, the right of appeal applies in general to all listed buildings. The amendments I have outlined here will be tabled as an amendment to the draft law. I hope that the committee will agree with me on the proposed amendments, and I am, of course, available for discussion of the amendment. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164257	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for brief comments, so we are starting with the rapporteur's series. And the first one is sir. Mogens Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164316	Thank you. It may seem a little strange that we in the Parliamentary Chamber today have to deal with this bill concerning the law on the conservation and conservation of buildings and urban environments, as we know that the Minister for Culture has announced that we will have a major revision of the law this autumn. And that is why it might perhaps have been more appropriate for us to deal with all the legislative changes in a context. The Danish People's Party has justified the change of law here with not least the major challenges facing the Viking Ship Museum in Roskilde. We know, of course, that the museum building down there has major problems due to wear and weather, which creates challenges for the current museum building and the storage of the ships. I would like to stress that it is extremely important for the Social Democratic Party that we will, of course, have a good future framework for our great national heritage at the Viking Ship Museum. It is a national priority that our best Viking ship find can also be communicated in a building that is future-proof. But first of all, it is always problematic to make legislation on the basis of individual cases. As a starting point, legislation must be based on general considerations, because that is precisely what creates equal, fair and balanced legislation. Secondly, there is in fact no need for here and now legislation to create the necessary framework for the Viking Ship Museum. In addition, the Danish People's Party's proposals set a curious time limit in the rules for conservation and demolition, which goes by buildings from after World War I. We find it difficult to find any reasonable justification for this, other than if you generally have a phobia for newer architecture. Also, the fact that the bill is aimed only at buildings that are state or state-recognized museums, we find it strange. So it was actually the starting point for the Social Democratic Party that we would vote against the bill and wait for the overall legislative review this autumn. But since then we have seen the Minister for Culture table a number of amendments to the bill. The Minister's proposals, which were presented here, suggest that the draft law should also be given a more fundamental character, and focus should be placed on strengthening the professional composition of the Special Building View, among other things. with the proposal that the building vision be extended from 12 to 13 members, where the 13th member acquires cultural historical competences. It is made clear that the members must represent competences in both architecture and cultural history, while ensuring that the architectural competence is strongly represented in the new building vision, and we think this is positive. Furthermore, the Minister's amendments make it possible for us to have a uniform negotiating process on decisions on the demolition and conservation of all types of buildings from all time periods, so that we give the Minister equal powers in those matters. Today, as has been explained, the building vision has a formal right of veto in cases of demolition, but a veto which can nevertheless be lifted by the Minister, since today she can finally decide on the preservation of a building which can then be demolished. So, with the Minister's amendments, we believe that a uniform and more transparent application procedure for conservation and demolition is being created. And I also understand from the hearing of the Ministry of Culture that the change is not expected to increase or reduce the number of listed buildings that are demolished, since the same result can therefore already be achieved within the existing legislation. In particular, the amendment calls for the amendment of the rules on demolition and conservation not to be limited to special periods of time or to museums recognised by the State or by the State. So, against this background, and if the Minister for Culture's amendments are adopted, the Social Democrats can also vote in favour of the overall bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164749	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164756	Thank you, sir. Mogens Jensen. The support is welcome. I just have one question: is it not true that with this bill and with the government's amendments it will be somewhat easier for the Viking Ship Museum to get the whole process of a new building started and that it is therefore an excellent initiative, even though some amendments have been tabled?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164828	In other words, I am aware that what the Viking Ship Museum has wanted can be achieved within the legislation in force, and in this way they are already well under way. However, the Social Democratic Party supports the creation of a uniform practice in the field of demolition in relation to conservation, namely that the Special Building View has a right of recommendation to the Minister and that it is the Minister who makes the final decision. That is really the case today, it just takes a little longer. But that is what the Social Democrats want to support, namely that there will be a uniform procedure and uniform competences for the Minister and for vision in both types of cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164914	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164916	I could also ask a little more directly: should Mr. Mogens Jensen does not congratulate the Danish People's Party for having tabled this bill because it has allowed the government to table amendments which now in all probability mean that the Viking Ship Museum can get started and that it is not slowed down by a building vision that has vetoed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509164937-2	As I said in my rapporteur's speech: if we had voted on the Danish People's Party's own proposal, the Social Democrats would vote against it. It is only on the basis of the amendments that have been tabled that we are raising this from being a case of individual buildings from individual time periods to the fact that it will be general legislation that we think is sensible. Perhaps we would also have preferred to see that we had waited for the autumn, when we still have to revise the law, rather than take it now, but out of kindness to the Danish People's Party and the basic intention of the proposal, the Social Democratic Party votes in favour with the amendments proposed by the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165022	Then we can thank the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is actually the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mrs Britt Baker. No, the proposer waits until the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165044	As you know, the background to the bill here is the problem with the Viking Ship Museum in Roskilde. This is an issue that has been the subject of debate both in Roskilde, here at Christiansborg and in a number of Danish media. However, this is not the specific case we are debating today, but the composition of the Special Building View and the right of veto of the vision in cases of demolition of protected buildings. In the comments to the bill, the proposers write: "Our common cultural heritage is something we must safeguard. We must cherish the archaeological finds that show how our ancestors formed and created the Denmark we know today. I do not think anyone in this House disagrees with that, and basically, the Left welcomes the intentions behind this excellent proposal. The Left also welcomes the proposalers' desire to ensure greater diversity in the Special Building View and to abolish the right of veto of the building vision in cases of demolition of protected buildings. As the Minister has just said, it does not make sense that the right of appeal does not exist in demolition cases, since it now exists in matters of the preservation of buildings and building changes. I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for putting forward this relevant proposal. The Left cannot support the proposal as it stands today, among other things. Because we do not believe that any change in the legislation in force in this area should be limited to buildings built after the first world war. However, this is a technical detail which must not obscure the idea behind this proposal, and that is why I am pleased to note the Minister's amendment to extend the Special Building View with an additional member with a cultural historical background and to remove the right of veto of the building vision in demolition cases. So to sum up: the Left supports the amendment and we are now looking forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165300	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Then I see no one in the hall from the Enhedslisten, and then it's the Liberal Alliance. However, the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur is busy elsewhere, and since I do not have the imagination to imagine that the rapporteur would not agree with the Minister for Culture, the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur is renouncing. Then we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165338	What a privilege to feel like the third-largest party in Parliament we appreciate that in the Alternative. I always think it is very unfortunate when you want to make legislation on the basis of individual cases, and because you have looked at a single building and what I saw chosen, because, like going a little nuanced on this, was actually cultivating the consultation answers and the consultation note that had come. When we talk about composition, I would like to say that I have heard that the Minister for Culture will also table amendments in which we will have this thirteenth member, and I am willing to be convinced that this is the right way forward, but I am also reading in the consultation answers that ICOMOS Denmark complains and mentions in the draft law that one has looked at the architects' stand. Europe Nostra Denmark writes: "At a time when the country's conservation authority necessarily has to deal with newer buildings built in so-called untraditional or even experimental constructions, knowledge and experience of precisely construction engineering and constructive issues will form an important part of the Special Building View's basis for making professionally sound decisions. ▪ I think it is worthwhile to have the architects actually offer something really important here, and that architects through their education also learn about seeing buildings in the context of the environment they are in, the story they are in. Compared to this, with the introduction of legal basis for the Minister for the demolition of protected buildings, there are three gentlemen, Mads, Marcus and Malthe, who have made some very good consultation responses to this bill, where precisely in connection with it they find that the bill gives too much power to the Minister for Culture to be a taster. I also think that this is worthwhile, that is to say, that we are really careful with the change the Minister of Culture is making, so that we are not going to discuss it in committee. We are giving too much power to the Minister, but that we are really taking the arm's length principle very seriously here, because it must never be a matter of taste, because conservation is not about what we necessarily like about buildings, it is not about whether they are built before or after the first world war, but whether they have a value, architectial, cultural history, etc., and that is what we need to keep in mind here. So the alternative cannot support the draft law, but of course we look curiously and kindly at the amendments that have been tabled, and we will then, if they are voted through, decide whether or not we will vote in favour of it as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165620	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165625	Don't worry about it at all, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist, that the building vision today has a right of veto and that they can thereby delay the process of building a building that secures our thousand-year old Viking ships that are under threat? There may be a storm at any time which exposes them to danger and, if necessary, to decay. Does it not concern the rapporteur at all that they have the right of veto in which they put the architecture and conservation of a building from 1965 higher than our thousand-year cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165702	I just think, as I started by saying, that it is very honest to make legislation on the basis of a single matter. Can we secure the Viking ships as we should, even if we have a protected building? Yeah, we can do that. The building isn't protected with the furniture in it. And I just think we need to take the arm's length principle seriously. So it is not up to individual parties to judge whether you like a building now and whether it should be demolished or not. It must therefore be up to the professionals who sit. And then we have to solve those tasks. I am also very much aware of the answer given by the Social Democrat rapporteur, namely that there are already processes in place so that we can make sure that we do what we need to do to preserve these ships. Because we must, of course, preserve them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165745	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165746	The crucial problem, of course, is that although the building can of course be renovated, it will cost 75 million. You can do that every ten years. There's no money for it. The municipality doesn't have the money, the state doesn't have the money, and the funds won't give money. They'll only give money to a new building. State, i.e. e.g. The Danish People's Party will also only give money to a new building, because this is the best way to manage taxpayers' money. The building vision has then vetoed the rescue of these ships. Does it not concern the rapporteur at all that it is a small cabal of eight people out of 12 in the Buildings Sight who prevents us from saving these ships and who have instead thrown their love into a concrete hall from 1965?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165834	I am concerned that the questioner calls some professionals who participate because of their professional knowledge a small clique. I think it's worth including that they have protected this building. We must take this seriously. We can still keep and look after those Viking ships. Of course we do. But why should it be at the expense of this building because the Danish People's Party does not like it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165900	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we go back a little in order and give the floor to Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509165910	Thank you. Of course, I should like to begin by thanking you very much for the fact that it was possible to obtain a derogation and regret the fact that I arrived a little late. The Enhedslisten has looked a lot at this because we have been quite involved in the very questions about the Viking Ship Hall in Roskilde and looked at the problems that have been there, the difficulties they have had in Roskilde. And I understand that's why you want a change of law. I think that we should look at this more generally when we want a change in the law on building vision and the influence of the Minister on this sort of thing. We are in favour of an arm's length principle, which is why we have also read with interest the consultation responses that exist. I don't really know where to start when we're going to talk about the generals and about what might be an option in the future, because this bill doesn't change the problem in Roskilde, i.e. at the Viking Ship Museum. Actually, I would like to say a little about the Viking Ship Museum, because I think it is the most acute. The problems of the Viking Ship Museum can be solved within the current legislation. That's what the Building View says, and that's what the board of directors of the Viking Ship Museum in Roskilde says. So there is no reason to change the legislation for that reason, and one must be very, very careful when transferring competence from a body such as the Buildings Office, which works under the arm's length principle, to an arbitrary minister. I am thinking with fear of what could happen if we made this change and the next minister of cult became Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen; I would be somewhat nervous to give him the power to go out and overturn all the houses he doesn't like. That would not be a good thing, and I would think that there would be a popular movement against the cult minister, because it is important that we have this wide-ranging discussion when we are at peace or at peace. The problem itself in Roskilde is currently being discussed between the Special Building View, the museum and the museum's board of directors, and the museum has sent a letter to the minister asking her to look into things. And it is surely not a false assumption to think that the Minister will find a solution that the people of Roskilde think is acceptable, because it is possible to meet the requirements of the Special Building View, while at the same time finding new opportunities to expand or move parts of the museum and ensure that the technical installations also work optimally, and ensure that both the Viking ships and the buildings can withstand the coming storms. In any case, something has to be done there, because we have to expect that in the coming years water will increase by about 1 m due to environmental problems, if climate action is not successful, and there is little evidence of this. In any case, therefore, initiatives must be taken not only in Roskilde, but also incredibly many other places on this globe. That is why we are very concerned about changing the law because of something that I think looks like taste judgment on the part of the Danish People's Party. If it had now been before the problems had arisen in Roskilde, I could even understand it because then we could have an objective discussion about whether the division of powers between the Minister and the Building View would be right. We cannot do that now that we are dealing with a very specific situation. I would, however, like to say that I would like to discuss with the Minister the individual proposal that has been made through the consultation contribution, which I do not know whether is from the Minister or the Ministry who says that it is a ministerial and therefore I have also read the contribution of the museum association. I would like to take part in discussing whether we can find a solution there and, if this can contribute to a new nuance in building vision's considerations, we can still preserve the arm's length principle. However, if there is no possibility of this, we will vote against and wait to see whether there will be general debates on the law on the conservation of buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170409	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170412	In other words, it is a reasonable objection that we are concerned that the Minister is being given too much power. And that's fair enough. In practice, it is not the Minister, but the Slots and Property Board, who decides on this sort of thing. They already do today. So when there's the minister in the law, you have to think about the board. Another point to which I would like to draw attention is that the Special Building View did not agree with their attitude. It was an 8-4 attitude, and what turned out interesting when I looked at it was that the eight of those who rejected the museum's request for peace were all architects, and the others were people with cultural historical insight who, of course, looked at the Viking ships. In this context, will it not make sense for us to remove the right of veto that the vision today has and then parallel it, as the government and the minister have suggested? 'Cause in practice, it's the board that's gonna be looking at those cases.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170527	I do not think so, because I would like to say that, for me, the Special Building View is something that needs to take broader account than a political decision in a ministry. And so it is very reassuring that we have a body such as the Special Building View, which tries to include all the possible considerations that can be taken into account in the field of conservation, and not to leave it to the ministries or the board of directors to take those decisions, or at least not to interfere as much as they would do according to the proposal. For today the Minister can, of course, take rather far-reaching decisions, and I would guess we will see that in Roskilde the Minister will do so. I would be very surprised if she did not do so because we are in the current situation. Then I think that the Danish People's Party should note that the building vision actually went into dialogue with the museum in Roskilde and continues to be in dialogue with the museum on how to find a practical solution to save the ships and to set up the building, so that in the future it also meets the purposes that it has been thought should be fulfilled. The building vision hasn't said you can't touch the building. They have said that you must gently remodel it if you want to rebuild it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170646	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170647	Sir. Christian Juhl says that building vision is an organ that can take wider account, but the problem is that it has not done so because one has relied solely on architectural value. Because if it were to take wider account, one also took into account a thousand-year-old Viking ships, who are at any time in danger of perishing if a storm strikes. And that's the whole thing in a nutshell. Then there are also some economic considerations. So it is simply not possible to do what the building vision wants you to do, namely to renovate because there is no room for it. Having said that, could it not be imagined that Enhedslisten would nevertheless support the bill with the government's amendments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170738	The building vision has taken account of both architectural and museum-based, in other words historical, ships, and that is what I think is the pragmatic aspect of both the dialogue that has been and the considerations that have been taken into account. And that is why I have great, great confidence that a reasonable minister and the museum in Roskilde will actually find a quite optimal solution together with the building vision. It may happen, it becomes more expensive, but when you have to weigh up, you have to pay what it costs when it is a protected building. There's nothing to do about that. There we have to find the money together, and there we do believe that there can be both private sponsors and also state and local sponsors to find a solution to this. I am very confident that, within the framework they currently have, the Roskilde Museum will find a solution, but of course not if the Minister blocks. Of course. And I think that is enough because the Minister can block by saying: No, I will do no more about that. But she can also say: yes, I will do something about that and find a solution. And I've got to look at her... trust that we'll have to find out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170848	Then we thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next is Mrs Zenia Stampe, the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509170857	I don't want to hide the fact that this is a real dilemma for me, who grew up in Roskilde with the Viking Ship Museum, which I think I have rather mixed feelings for. I think most people in Roskilde do. When I was a kid, I couldn't understand how you could build so ugly. But then my father told me about architecture history and that it was the prime example of brutalism, and it also led to discussions about all the other architectural forms that lie next to that style, and architecture history. I think that's what makes this case difficult. Because, of course, there is concern for the Viking ships that they should not be exposed to the sudden introduction of water into a storm flood. After all, we had one a few years ago, which was really bad, and then we again had one last year where we were afraid that the water would penetrate and damage the ships. Fortunately, that did not happen, but we do know that we live on borrowed time. That is why it is an entirely legitimate need for a position and action to be taken. The Danish People's Party is to be commended for this. But when I also have mixed feelings about this proposal, it's because I don't really know what it really is, the main reason is here. Is it the concern for the Viking ships, or is it an objection to the Viking Ship Museum's architecture that I think is an important part of Danish cultural history? It has been an architectural style, which has been in Denmark and which the Viking Ship Museum is once the main example of. It's part of our cultural history, which is hard to tell to my children if it doesn't lie there anymore. That is why I think it is a huge dilemma, and I am a little surprised that the municipality of Roskilde has not submitted a hearing response. 'Cause they have to know if anyone knows this, among other things. It's about them. I also know that they have expressed their views on similar proposals in the past, including those of Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen, with enthusiasm, because right now, as far as I can understand, they are primarily focused on saving the Viking ships so that they are not exposed to a new storm and possible destruction. I understand, and I also met the mayor at the Viking Ship Museum. I understand the urgent need. But I don't know if the municipality feels like they're thinking: if we can't find that money, we're gonna have to do something new, like sir. Alex Ahrendtsen has suggested. Then it must be some new Viking castle that fits Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen's taste, if that's what it takes to protect the ships. But what I would like best and would like to see that was sought out is that we can both preserve the Viking ships, which are an important part of our history, but also the museum's architecture, which is also an important part of our history. To be honest, I will have to delve into the matter a little more in committee to tell us where we stand. I think I will be positive about the Minister for Culture's first amendment to extend the building vision. I think it's relevant to take in this other competence, i.e. a museum professional competence. I'm more the shit about changing the right of veto into a right of adjustment, because it's good to have this leg buckle. After all, the minister can make sure that something is torn down. But it's a leg buckle, and it's for us to get an attitude like this, where it's architects. It's not an unison building view, but it's eight architects who say that this is so valuable to our Danish architectural history that it would be sad to tear down and displease them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171339	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171342	It is absolutely true what Mrs Zenia Stampe says: that is a dilemma. I agree with the rapporteur. Perhaps I can help the rapporteur make a choice if I now tell you that the architect behind the Viking Ship Museum, Erik Sørensen, in a report from 2005, shortly before he died, wrote that the building he had designed and created was a plimsoller. A plimsoller is a boat that is sink-full. Does it help the rapporteur when the architect behind the building himself knew that this was not the right building? Because it is constructed incorrectly and it is very expensive to maintain, and it does not meet the requirements of a building that stands down there where it is exposed to wind and weather. Does it help the rapporteur to make a decision that the architect behind the building himself thought it was a plimsoller?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171440	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171440-2	No, but I really appreciate trying to help. Now I don't quite know what he meant by that. But I know that he himself has contributed with suggestions on how to renovate the museum. But this is clearly the kind of thing that we need to dive into here in committee to see what opportunities there are. I do not even know whether it has been considered that the house might be allowed to stay, but that the boats might not be there if what is really the problem is that the house cannot provide the right security for the boats. Maybe it can be preserved, but just not for that. It may also be that it is not at all a good idea, because in Roskilde it is thought that the boats should lie out to the water. This is the whole idea of architecture too, and it can of course also be strange if you take the Viking ships out of the Viking Ship Museum. Then maybe the architect would say that it doesn't matter. But this is something that I need to delve into more, and I would really like to hear how Roskilde feels. I am very surprised that they have not submitted a hearing answer. It may be that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party can tell me why Roskilde does not. For I actually had a feeling that there had been a dialogue between the rapporteur and the municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171603	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171604	The Viking Ship Museum is constructed incorrectly. There's 3 mm of concrete at the top, and then the salt penetrates, and it creates danger. That's just one of the problems. That's why it's very expensive to maintain. About every five or maybe every ten years you need 75 million. kr., so it's not a solution, and that's what Building vision won't really take into account because they've fallen in love with that brutalism. Does this not make the decision to vote in favour of this proposal, which opens the way for us to get started on a new building and thus also save the ships, easier for the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171648-2	I mean, I'm not going to make my decision here from the platform, but I would very much like to have a dialogue with Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen on the second reading and also on the third reading, because I think that is a dilemma. But I am not entirely convinced that all the possibilities have been sought out, and there are other rapporteurs who have mentioned before me that there may be opportunities which are not quite as expensive as Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen is setting up. I think it should be searched. In any case, this is a really great dilemma, because we are talking about two Viking ships, but also about a building that has great cultural historical significance for Denmark. I think that the Viking ships are probably the most important thing we can agree on, but I think that I also think that the building and the architecture that it stands for, and the relics of posterity that we leave behind, are more important than Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen may seem, and hence my doubts. In the Radical Left, although people say that we are so knowledgeable, we have a slogan that says: there is no doubt chance here. It's not random here. I think it's justified. These are different and contradictory considerations which must be weighed very closely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171813	Perhaps more help is to get Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171817	Yes, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen is kind enough to want to help Mrs Zenia Stampe, perhaps I can also try to help Mrs Zenia Stampe with a different perspective. It is precisely this question of whether it is a task for politicians to stand here and decide which buildings are to be demolished, or whether that is why we have the Special Building View, which takes care of these things and which has this arm's length principle, and where there are professionals who can actually judge it here. And does the Radical Left and Mrs Zenia Stampe not think that it is very important to stick to the fact that it should be professionals sitting and taking a stand on it, and it should not be determined by the fact that we are looking at an architecture or building but, on the contrary, that we are trying to live up to the professional expertise that exists and then say: how can we solve it in other ways?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171904	Yes, I would agree with that too, if it were not, because there is, after all, the specific issue of the museum serving a rather important function. Then the Buildings View may well decide that the museum should not be demolished, but if we politicians then cannot provide the money that will enable the museum building to serve its function, namely to be a safe and secure framework for our Viking ships and that part of our cultural heritage, then perhaps I do not think that the matter is quite as clear as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is setting up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509171943	Is it not true, as the Academy also writes in their hearing answer, that a building can be protected with fixed fixtures, but not because of its loose fixtures, what museum objects must be characterized as? Well, when we have professionals to decide these things, it's a bottom-up job for the Folketing to figure out how to solve it. We heard Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen in a question to myself just mentioned that one did not want to spend the money in the way one had to, but that one would rather build new ones.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172018-2	Yes, but what is the consequence of that attitude? It is either that you find the 75 million. kr. Every ten years I don't know if it's quite true what Mr. Alex Ahrendtsens says, but let's start with the fact that the Viking ships do not go to or that we move them. That's what I was talking about. I have not talked to anyone in Roskilde about the possibility of then moving the ships out of the museum, but one can of course be forced to do so if we maintain a museum in a building that cannot be it should be around the ships. Then we may be forced to take them out. But that is something we have not discussed at all. In other words, you also have to look at building and functioning in a context, and I think that is where I am going. Rasmus Nordqvist does it a little too black and white by only treating the building. But the building also serves a function, and if we do not make it possible to serve that function, then we are in a completely third scenario where we have to build something else. It just underlines how difficult this case is. That is also why, before the second reading, I would like to put the emphasis on talking to people in Roskilde to hear how they feel. But of course it is not just a Roskilde affair, because it is about our cultural heritage, both the architectural and the one that relates to our history as a Viking nation with Viking ships.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172147	There is one more contribution, Mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172150	I'd like to hear about something. This isn't a local museum. It is, in fact, a museum that meets a national need, and it is, in my personal opinion, a mistake that the state is not in charge of operating it. That is why I would like to ask: is it really the case that, if we are to take account of both the buildings and the ships, there is some excess which we can talk about in advance? I mean, who dared put a price on what it would cost to secure those ships for the next 500 years? I don't think anyone dares that in advance. I believe that it is of such historical interest and so on that it may well be a rather large amount and that no one will shake his hand, but say that then we will have to find the amount that is necessary when we have to take both into account. Does the rapporteur not agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172244	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172246	I have to admit, I didn't really understand the question. Maybe I wasn't paying attention at the end. But I think that both Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, but also Mr. Christian Juhl needs to tell me what will happen if we do not find the money needed to renovate the museum. That is, of course, the specific problem we are facing right now and, as Mr. Christian Juhl and I have been following regularly because we have both been appointed and elected in Roskilde and have had a meeting with the mayor at the Viking Ship Museum. I understand that in Roskilde, although one may well understand the value of having a rather unique architectural work, one cares about the Viking ships because one can see that the case is locked. There comes one storm tide after another, and you think that when is it then that this frame is not durable anymore. And if you are not willing to dedicate that money from the political side, then those ships can no longer be there at the end of the day. Then the consequence may be that one chooses to hold on to the museum lying there, but that the ships have to be moved elsewhere. It may well be that this will be the third option, and then we are in a scenario that we have not really discussed here at all, and I just think it emphasizes that there must be a lot of thought before I can at least do my job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172413	Thank you. I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl knows the rules in here, i.e. the rules to get in. Otherwise, I'd like to train them with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl. Here you go. The word is sir. Christian Juhls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172427	Amateurs have to try several times before it falls into nicks. I would say that when the Danish Building Inspectorate enters into dialogue with a museum and says that it is possible to rebuild it and expand it without destroying the brutalism of the building structure, and that the technical facility can also be created without any problems, I think we have an optimal situation. I am well aware of the whole problem of private sponsors probably not wanting to go in and make a reconstruction that they have to engage in a new building, but that is something we have to solve. Well, there is also a treasury that can afford several bombers that cost a lot, much more than just a single museum renovation in Roskilde. So I think it is only a matter of priority to find that money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172518	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172519	That's enough where we separate from each other. Because it's true that it wasn't a problem if there was money. Now the Viking Ship Museum has been yelling for this money for a very long time, and we've been in government with mr. Christian Juhl as a parliamentary basis, but now it is another government with a different parliamentary basis. That money still hasn't come. That's why you're sitting in Roskilde looking at that hourglass and thinking that now there's gonna be movement in this case soon, because we can't take another storm tide and then stand there with your heart up your throat to see if the water gets in this time. It is also because they feel responsibility. The museum people feel responsible for the cultural heritage for which they are responsible and must ensure, and today the museum is not a secure framework. Their cry for help has not been heard so far, that is, what was about securing help for the museum within the building there is. Therefore, they now find themselves forced to go in a different direction and ally themselves with the Danish People's Party. That is where I am not a big fan of this proposal either, because there can also be an objection to a certain type of architecture, and I certainly do not share it. But I share the feeling or experience that there is an hourglass of sand running and that something needs to be done. This is the feeling you have in Roskilde, both in the museum, but also in Roskilde's citizens. Because when you are from there, you also feel a responsibility for that part of the cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172655	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we have reached the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr President. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509172703	Thank you, President. I admit that this is a rather unusual situation. After all, it is a private bill, and it does not happen so often that it is put forward in the Chamber. And it does not happen so often that there is a majority behind the proposal, which can only be welcomed if there is support for the amendments. I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the debate and thank them, and I would also like to thank the Minister and the Government for their willingness and for having tabled some amendments to enable us to decide on this bill, thereby opening up the possibility for us to move forward in that somewhat deadlocked situation, which, among other things, is one of them. The case of the Viking Ship Museum has caused. Then it is also fair that we should make the parallelisation that the government is proposing with its amendments. I would like to explain why we in the Danish People's Party have written as we have done. We were actually afraid to open up too much, and then we put in some restrictions: World War I and only museums. What's interesting now is that there's actually a majority for us to open up a little more and then do that parallelization. Then we avoid that the building vision has a right of veto, and that is quite excellent. I am not afraid that the Minister will have too much power, as Enhedslisten believed. It's practical Slots- og Ejendomsstyrelsen who's going to handle those cases. There were some questions from various rapporteurs. I'll try to answer them. Among other things: Mr. Mogens Jensen on why this proposal had been made at all when the Minister wanted to review the Building Conservation Act. We started this work before the Minister made his statement, and then for almost two years I have been dealing with the problem of the Viking Ship Museum. So it's nothing new that just came in. Sir. Mogens Jensen also says that it is a problem that it is a single matter. But this is a matter of principle, and that is why we can afford to table this bill. It is not unique because there have been problems at Bornholm, where the Building Sight has gone in and interfered with the Bornholm Museum's desire to expand. It has simply been threatened with the preservation of the building, which is just over 20 years old. The alternative refers to the consultation responses. And it is true that they are very critical. It was at my request that it was sent out so that the rapporteur had the opportunity to have the hearings before the first reading and they are very critical. However, I would also like to say that some of those who have written a hearing do not actually know how serious the Viking Ship Museum is. They are not aware of the technical reasons, and that is a little too bad. Some of them are also very political. Most of them are architects and, of course, they are also pissed that we are going in and trying to limit the right of veto they have today. Then I would just like to mention, and it is quite important that the architect behind the museum called his own work a plimsoller. And if you have time one day, you can go to the Viking Ship Museum's website, and then you can find the 2005 report. And it's really good to be smart about. You get a very clear overview of all the problems with the building, and it is the architect himself who is responsible for it. When the architect himself can suggest that we do something about this building, I think the rest of us can do it too. Therefore, it seems a little strange that the building vision does not listen to the architect behind the building, but goes in and uses their right of veto to stop a peace and a demolition which is the best when we take into account both cultural, architectural and economic considerations. The Enhedslisten mentions that wider consideration should be taken into account, and I do agree with that. I would like to make it clear now that the Enhedslisten here is not, unfortunately, that with the bill and the amendments we are not putting down the Building View. The building vision will still be there and, by virtue of their professional skills, they can recommend to the Minister. The new thing is that they then do not have the right of veto in demolition cases, and I think that is actually very good, because this individual case shows the fundamental and fundamental issue. The Enhedslisten will also have to see that there are some economic considerations to take into account. So, I cannot defend against taxpayers that every five to ten years they have to find up to 75 million. kr. to renovate a building that is constructed incorrectly. That is simply not the right way to do it. We can't find all the money every year. The funds will not find money for repairs; funds will only give money for construction. That's why we need to get rid of this building. And if the Building View stands in the way of that process, we will have to change the Building View Act. That's what we're doing with this bill and the government's amendments. To the rapporteur of the Radicals, who has a dilemma and thanks for presenting the dilemma; I think that is actually very honest; I would like to say that I hope that the more serious reasons will enable the Radical Left to support the amendments and the legislative proposal because all options have already been sought. It's not something that's just happened over a couple of years. For 10 years this has actually been known, and the longer it goes, the worse it gets. The reason why we can not only move the ships is because a very beautiful overall plan has been made for the area out there, which involves not only the museum itself, but also the neighbouring buildings, where you want to create an architectural whole based on the entire Viking Age. And what must also be borne in mind in the Radical Left is that we are facing enormous competition from, among others, the United States. Norway and Sweden and England, all of which have discovered how much the Vikings are up in time. Norway is to expand the Viking Museum in Oslo, and what is interesting is that it is a Danish company that has won the task of expanding the Viking and Longships. There is investment everywhere in Europe, where there have only been Vikings almost everywhere; even in Finland, there has been a start on arming. So we also have to arm up in Denmark. And there I really think that the building vision stands in the way of that armament, because they only take very narrow architectural considerations of veneration for an old mentor for many of these architects. So all in all, I hope that more people in the Chamber can support the government's amendments so that we can get the whole process going. I would like to thank the Social Democratic Party for supporting the government's amendment. I think that is welcome. Once that has happened, I hope that we can get the process started for the Viking Ship Museum so that they can start looking for funds and that hopefully we can find some money on the Finance Act so that we can get started. So, all in all, thank you for the debate, which I think has been rewarding and rich in substance. And I hope that we will have a good process in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173541	The debate is not over yet. There are a few brief comments, and the first one is from Mr Seligman. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173548	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. As it is clear to us now, there is nothing in this bill that changes the situation at the Viking Ship Museum, understood in the sense that they are already there, that they have been refused demolition, and then they can send an application to the Minister of Culture for conservation, and if the Minister of Culture says yes to satisfaction, it can be demolished. So that doesn't change anything about that situation. It can do that for some future projects. I just want to know if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Alex Ahrendtsen doesn't agree with that. Then there is what has been said today about the situation of the Viking Ship Museum, which is serious, and there we have seen Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has been out and is promising 150 million. kr. to the Viking Ship Museum on a large front page in Politiken. I think they are waiting a lot for that in Roskilde, that is when that money comes, so perhaps the rapporteur could reveal it to us here today and please the museum in Roskilde.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173659	It is quite true that the bill will have an impact on future matters, but it will also have an impact on the Viking Ship Museum now and here, because hopefully we will adopt the bill quite quickly, and then it will also apply to the Viking Ship Museum. Right now it is the building vision that blocks the process, because you have that right of veto, and that is why it has pulled out, so it also has meaning for the museum. With regard to the Finance Act and the money, it is true that the Danish People's Party has said that we will try to obtain 150 million. kr. in the Finance Act over three years, if necessary. This year's Finance Act states that the four parties behind the Finance Act have said to each other that once the whole process is completed, you will sit down and see if you can find funding. We're ready for it. We also know where to find the money. I cannot reveal where, but we will certainly go to the negotiations with funding in the back.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173803	I know that's the spin that Mr. Alex Ahrendtsen has tried to create around this bill that it should solve some problems now and here for the Viking Ship Museum. Well, it doesn't. The Viking Ship Museum could have sent a letter to the Minister of Culture about a peace. Then there could have been a decompression, and so the demolition could have started. That doesn't change this bill because the minister has that competence today, it just takes a little longer. From now on, it will take less time. But I didn't quite hear it. Promise me, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen here 150 million. kr. to the Viking Ship Museum at the Finance Act for next year and the following 2 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173844	The Danish People's Party does not have 90 seats, but we will go to the negotiations and then we will say that we will have 150 million. kr. to the Viking Ship Museum when the process is completed, and we hope that there will be a majority. I can't guarantee what the government wants. As regards the Viking Ship Museum, it is the case that today the Minister cannot authorise the demolition of a listed building. Today, the Minister can disarm it, but cannot authorize the demolition of a protected building. The Minister will then be able to do so, and so we can get started quickly. So it also helps the museum.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173935	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509173936	Now we have talked a lot about the Viking Ship Museum, and it is also an important museum and an important problem, but can the rapporteur not just stress that this is a change in the law that will affect many buildings? It can affect a number of buildings built after World War I, as they write. So is it not also worth hearing from the rapporteur about the importance this will have for other buildings in Denmark, which are protected and which are from after World War I, as specifically written in the Danish People's Party's Bill?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174011	It may also have an impact on other buildings, but it requires that the building contains some cultural heritage, where cultural heritage is so important that the building must then be put to death, and that happens very rarely. However, the draft law and the amendments have been made in such a way as to prevent the Building Sight from taking a building hostage and thus shelling and managing a little with the cultural heritage. So yes, it can happen in the future, but the probability of that happening is probably not so great, because there are not so many of those buildings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174102	[Sound emission]... if this amendment proposed by the Danish People's Party is adopted I am not now talking about the Minister's amendments, but the Danish People's Party's Bill · then there is a new law that will have meaning for buildings that contain museums built after World War I, and that is also in the future. So it's not just the Viking Ship Museum we're talking about, it's buildings in general that contain museums and that are built after World War I, and that's why we should have just lifted it up and talked about this in general, so that we want to kid the architecture in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174140	However, with the amendments tabled by the Government and the Minister for Culture, it will be general for all buildings. One parallels the way in which decompositions are now dealt with also with demolitions of protected buildings. I would like to stress that the right of adjustment from the Buildings View will still be maintained with the amendments, because we will not remove it. However, what we are removing is their right of veto, and this right of veto has meant that in the case of the Viking Ship Museum a process has been extended which makes it difficult for the Viking Ship Museum to move forward, thereby endangering the ships, because we can expect a storm every moment it has to be when winter comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174233	Thank you, sir. Alex Ahrendtsen. There are no more brief comments. Since no one else has asked to speak either, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Culture. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's adopted, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174301	The debate has been opened, and the first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Leif Lahn Jensen from the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174313	Thank you for that, President. For us Socialists, it is extremely important to support voluntary work, since it means a great deal to the people it affects, and especially to those who help others. We have a lot of volunteers in Denmark, and they're one of the most important factors in this country. Doing something for others and wanting to give others some good experiences and a better life means a lot to a lot of people. Of course, therefore, it must not be seen as difficult and confusing to be voluntary, which is why the previous government also made an attempt in this area to work voluntarily in unpaid work without a deduction from the daily allowance or the early retirement allowance for up to 15 hours a week. This expired on 20 March 2017, and in future you can only have 4 hours per week without deduction of benefits. The government then proposes to extend the pilot scheme from 5 June 2017 until 1 January 2018 and in the meantime to negotiate a permanent scheme that can enter into force from January 2018. I would like to send the message from the Social Democrats to the government and to the Minister that we will look forward to a debate with the government on this, which is why we naturally also approve this extension. It is important for us to be part of these negotiations, to be able to influence it in the direction that we think is right and to make a very good and broad solution so that it also lasts longer than the next elections, precisely to ensure that the voluntary organisations know what they have to do in the future, but also to see if we can avoid a great loss of good jobs. So we enter into negotiations with the aim of ensuring a good framework for volunteers, but also to keep a close eye on whether this displaces people from the labour market or keeps them longer on unemployment benefits. That is why, as we always do in our party when we come to negotiations, we will be asking an awful lot of questions and being very, very curious, so that hopefully a very good agreement can be reached for all these people. That is why the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174523	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174526	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. After all, the rapporteur usually attaches great importance to the recordings coming from the LO and the FTF when we deal with such legislative proposals here. And there is, of course, a very, very critical consultation response from the LO and the FTF, which directly warns us not to adopt this bill. So I just want to know if that hearing has not made any impression on the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174556	But I am sure that the questioner heard what I said, that is to say that we will keep a close eye on whether this displaces people from the labour market or whether it keeps them longer on unemployment benefits. The reason I say these two things is that this is exactly what FTF and LO are pointing to. And that is also why I am saying this, because I shall of course see if there is a problem and ask about it. So that's why I'm focused on it, too. So that is correct, I would say to Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174621	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174622	Thank you. Now the LO and the FTF come to the opposite conclusion with regard to the rapporteur, because the two main organisations are in fact of the opinion that this leads to the displacement of ordinary jobs, and that is why they are opposed to continuing a scheme to carry out what is called voluntary unpaid work for as long as 15 hours without having deducted from their daily allowance or in their early retirement. And voluntary unpaid work, I would say to the rapporteur, we agree that I assume that work can be offered as regular wage work and usually is. That's the definition of it. After all, there is no one to prevent the unemployed and the pensioners from making all the voluntary efforts they want at all, and the Minister also emphasizes this in the comments on the bill, but what we are talking about here is work that should be offered as wage work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174718	Well, I have no doubt that a good social democrat is needed in these negotiations, and I have also seen the initiative that came from the government, and I have no doubt that a good social democrat is needed in those negotiations either. That's why we're on the field.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174733	Thank you, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, and welcome to Mr Leif Lahn Jensen. Bent Bøgsted from the Danish People's Party. He now has the right to speak as rapporteur up here from the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509174746	Thank you for that, President. After all, this proposal is about the extension of an experimental scheme, which was set in motion under the former Helle Thorning-Schmidt government, and which ran for a two-year period, during which benefit recipients and pensioners were given the right to work longer. As has been said, it has expired here on 20 March and, of course, we must look at the experience gained from the experimental system. What then lies next is that a new law on voluntary service has to be seen, and in this respect there is a little more work, because it is not that simple again. It is not just that they say that you are now raising the number of hours for benefit recipients and pensioners, and that is all right. In the Danish People's Party we look at it in such a way that we have to go through the whole range when we are about to make new legislation. We have to go through the whole range, we have to go through it all to see if there is an unlit corner as far as some of those who work voluntarily are concerned. It can be anything from the fact that it can crowd out general employment to ensuring that insurance schemes are in order for those who work voluntarily if they are injured. That is why our approach to it is, of course, that we go into the work of making a new agreement on a voluntary effort, but that we have to have it all looked through. It may be that there are a lot of areas where you can say: there is no problem; here we can cross off with a check sign; we have looked through that and there is no problem; here it goes on as it is. But we might as well take this opportunity to go through everything. In this context, of course, we can also see that we should have looked at those who are on flexible and unemployment benefits in terms of their way of working, but in Association Denmark, as we call it, where there are a great many associations that use a great many volunteers, we must of course also provide the opportunity for voluntary helpers that they need. They already call for volunteers and say that they have trouble getting volunteers to work with our children and grandchildren. Here is an opportunity for us to help the associations. We have to look at that too. But it may well be that we end up having to look at whether we can have one hour in some areas and whether we can have another hour in other areas, so that it is not just the same. It has a little to do with what you are dealing with as a volunteer. This is certainly the approach we have to it in the Danish People's Party. The Danish People's Party has helped to propose that we extend the trial scheme until a new legislation is in place that can enter into force on 1 January 2018 and that is also fine. We're backing this bill. However, with the new law to come, we need to look a little more carefully at the experience that has come and also the concerns about the displacement of ordinary work. Because it should not be the case that one can say: then we just hire some volunteers and then the problem is solved. In other words, some of those who are extremely weak in the use of voluntary labour are the municipalities that are making more and more voluntary use. More and more citizens are being used to work on a voluntary basis. There, too, we need to look at how it works, because it should not be the case that budgets are being cut, and then you just get some volunteers to solve the tasks. We have been able to see that around, and there we also have to look a little more at how it works around. There is a big difference between how to use the volunteers on the basis of whether it is in a sports association or in a nursing home. And as I said before, there is also the question of insurance. We must ensure that everyone is insured, because if someone gets hurt, we have someone who is in a situation where they cannot get compensation when, for example, they get compensation. has helped someone who is disabled or an elderly person. So we have to look at how to ensure that those who work voluntarily do not get caught. But as a starting point, we in the Danish People's Party are fully involved in creating a new legislation on volunteers. The government has come up with a proposal, and we will see to it that the government is on the right track in this respect. It is not as simple as the Minister has said. It is not just a matter of changing it for pensioners and benefit recipients. At least it won't be like that when we're done. We might as well get everything that is about volunteering put together in legislation as we are in the process. In this context, I also believe that when we have finished drafting legislation on voluntary Denmark, we should drop all that about municipalities seeking to become free municipalities in the voluntary sector. We should be able to make legislation so that it's all covered up so that we can stop all this with free municipalities attempts in the field of volunteering. But that depends on what we can agree on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175307	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175309	Thank you. I welcome the rapporteur's critical approach to this, because I share the rapporteur's view that it is a really big problem and a growing problem in many places. And, of course, we must put an end to that. This has never been the intention of voluntary work, and it will also destroy voluntary work, for volunteers must be volunteers. They should not be tied up to solve specific tasks. I am also delighted that the rapporteur is very critical of this free community attempt, but why is it voted on to extend it? I do not understand that, because the LO and the FTF have already pointed out that there is a displacement in connection with this, and we might as well stop it now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175357	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175358	Well, that's because we in the Danish People's Party are prepared to have changed rules. There will also be a change in the number of hours. When it comes to the experimental scheme here, it is because associations that are in operation for the rest of the year should not get into trouble that we say yes to extending this scheme. And then, of course, we will have to put in place new legislation which will come into force on 1 January and which will replace the arrangements that exist today. But it is simple for the sake of the associations that we say yes to extending this experimental scheme.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175431	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175433	Thank you. Then you can risk extending it indefinitely if you cannot agree on anything. Well, I just have to say that from the start, the associations have known when the end date was for this attempt, so they could have just dealt with that. Surely that cannot be an argument for extending a system which is basically highly critical.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175455	Well, there's nothing about extending this arrangement indefinitely. New legislation needs to be put in place. This will expire on January 1st, and it will not be extended anymore. Then there must be new legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175508	Thank you, sir. Bent Bøgsted, and welcome to Mr. Klaus Markussen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175514	Thank you for that, President. After all, this proposal is simply about extending a sensible rule, which has hitherto been an experimental scheme, the year out. And that is quite a sensible solution until we find a more permanent solution to the long track. As you know, the government has just presented its proposal to this effect. However, the previous rapporteurs have examined the proposal very well, so I would really just like to briefly examine why the Left supports this proposal, because we do. Voluntary work in Denmark is of great importance for our society and, above all, for cohesion. Volunteers make a very special effort, which I think we should pay tribute to. It is my clear impression that this effort is appreciated in many places, not least in our many communities. It is therefore also important that the rules in this area do not put an end to the possibility of voluntary unpaid work. We must not make it harder for those who do unpaid work, and we must, of course, ensure that the rules in this area are simple, while supporting voluntary work rather than working against it. In my view, the Minister for Employment's proposal strengthens the possibility of voluntary work, where citizens are not afraid to contribute for fear of being set off in performance, but where they are still available for the labour market. So I hope there will be support for that when the negotiations get under way. With regard to the proposal we are debating today, the voluntary organisations have been sorry that the experimental scheme expired in March of this year, and I understand that as it were. They fear, of course, that a severe slowing down of the system will mean that fewer people work voluntarily. Therefore, this proposal is a good solution and, above all, an important solution until we reach agreement on what will happen after 2017. I think it's great that we have a society where people want to lend a hand. That is why I think it is right that we should extend the experimental scheme for the rest of the year until we agree on a solution that takes due account and at the same time supports voluntary action in the long term. And on that basis, the Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175747	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175751	Thank you. Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that the legislation in force does not impose any restrictions on the number of voluntary activities or the amount of voluntary work to be undertaken as a citizen of this country, even when it comes to benefits and early retirement. I would like the rapporteur to confirm this. This means that, on an equal footing with all sorts of others, benefit and pre-retirement recipients can act as visiting friends and collectors for relief organisations and servicers in recycle shops, participate in sports activities, including as trainers in associations where it is not usual to hire paid trainers and carry out many, many other voluntary activities in which hundreds of thousands of citizens participate every day. Would the rapporteur like to confirm that with the rules in force there are no restrictions whatsoever on what I am mentioning here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175839	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175840	I think we all know the background to this bill and the regulatory basis on which it is based. This proposal is based on the fact that the experimental scheme which expired here in March of this year will be extended for the rest of the year, so that no one will be caught in an unfortunately no-man's-land until there is clarification about a permanent solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175905	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175906	I am sorry that the rapporteur will not confirm what the Minister himself writes in his comments on the draft law. This bill and this discussion are about whether to relax the opportunities for benefits and early-retirement recipients to do work free of charge, which should otherwise be paid under normal contractual conditions. That's what this discussion is about. And I can only understand from the rapporteur that the rapporteur thinks it is very sensible for unemployed insured persons to work free of charge. That is the conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509175946	I think it's bad luck when Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen puts words in my mouth I haven't said. This scheme and this bill are about extending a scheme that is quite reasonable, which many appreciate, and which supports the possibility of contributing through voluntary unpaid efforts. I think that strengthens cohesion. And I think that is really important that a sensible, sustainable, long-term, broad solution is found to this Parliament's future, so that volunteers do not have to keep in mind whether this is something we should or should not do, and so that we can strengthen transparency and predictability in this area. I expected that to be in the interests of all parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180037	Thank you, sir. Klaus Markussen. There are no more brief comments. And welcome to Mr. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180046	Thank you. I think there is a reason to be clear about what we are actually discussing here. As the current rules, the legislation in force, are, there is no limit to the number of voluntary activities or voluntary efforts that can be committed to as a citizen of this country, even for unemployment benefits and survivors. The Minister himself writes this in the comments to the bill. This means that unemployed people and pensioners can act as visiting friends, they can gather to relief organisations, they can operate in recycling shops, they can participate in sports activities, including as trainers in sports associations, where it is not usual to hire paid trainers, and many, many other voluntary activities, which hundreds of thousands of citizens participate in every day, fortunately, and a huge thanks to the citizens for that, because this kind of volunteering is a really strong and positive contribution to society. That's just not what this bill is about. That is not what we are discussing. We are discussing the extent to which benefits and survivors may take part in voluntary unpaid work without being offset in cash benefits and early retirement. And I admit to the puzzling listeners that one can ask: what is the difference now? Well, the difference is that voluntary unpaid work is something quite different from voluntary work and voluntary activity. Voluntary unpaid work is, according to the definitions of the law, as the Minister correctly describes it, a work which can be offered as wage work and which usually will be. This means that ordinary wage work must be paid in accordance with normal, usual Danish wages and working conditions. Here, then, the law itself states that beneficiaries of benefits can do this kind of voluntary unpaid work for up to 4 hours without being deducted from their benefit, while the experimental scheme has increased this limit to 15 hours. It is then made clear that, in the case of actual operational tasks, this leads to a set-off in cash benefits and early retirement from the first hour. In principle, it is a really bad idea if the unemployed in general are or are not insured and retired, who want to supplement the early retirement with some work and can do it according to the law, are doing voluntary unpaid work. For that simply means that they are cheating themselves for an ordinary job at normal pay. They take an ordinary job from themselves. The law then says that you must do unpaid work for up to 4 hours. We really think that's wrong, but let's do it. I think we're down to a small limit. We were and are opposed to setting the limit and are therefore also opposed to a limit of 15 hours, experiment or not. Then you might ask: What damage has it done? There is only one study, and it is, moreover, a very thin basis to extend a law on the basis of which it is Deloitte's investigation. It is true that it has been done on a slim basis. It shows that there is limited displacement of ordinary jobs, and it uses some then as an argument for there to be no problems. Yes, but the reason why it is a limited displacement is that the scheme has been used to a very limited extent. Then it is clear that the displacement remains in the same proportions. Nevertheless, the report gives a fairly clear indication that it actually leads to the displacement of ordinary jobs, since a quarter of those who have been interviewed indicate that the task they performed would be carried out by paid labour if it had not been carried out by a volunteer and that almost one in five consider that the performance of their task requires or requires special training, which also suggests that it is a quite ordinary job. I'm not surprised the government would like to prolong the experiment. Nor am I surprised that yesterday the government came up with a major proposal for an additional opportunity to work free of charge in functions which should be paid under normal conditions. Unfortunately, this is entirely in line with what changing governments and a lot of municipalities are trying to do in these years, namely to replace employees in ordinary jobs with volunteers, with people in business practices, useful jobs and other kinds of cheap or free labour. We are very much in agreement with the position of the LO and the FTF on this matter. We voted against the experimental scheme and therefore also voted against its extension.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180510	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180522	Thank you. This proposal must continue the experimental scheme in relation to voluntary work until a more permanent solution can be found. This means, in concrete terms, that benefit recipients must be able to work 10 hours a week and survivors 15 hours a week without any deduction from the benefit. Voluntary work is important for the individual and for society, so of course the good and easy-to-read conditions must be ensured, and the Liberal Alliance therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180550	Thank you to Mrs Laura Lindahl. There are no brief comments, so I would like to welcome Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. He now has the right to keep his rapporteur's speech up here from the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180608	In the alternative, we have a saying: More society, smaller state. We think it is incredibly important that unemployed Danes have sensible and interesting activities to take care of during their unemployment. It has value for the individual and it has a huge value for society, but it is also incredibly important that voluntary work does not replace wage work. But we do not want to stop this experiment right now, but we want to keep a close eye on the experience of the experiment, especially with a view to not replacing paid hours with free labour. So we'd like to discuss this scheme further, like the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, but we're also going to use closeness when we look at the advantages and disadvantages in relation to the preparation and adoption of the final proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180709	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. Also he surprised with a short and precise speech. We move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180719	Thank you. I would like to thank the Minister for bringing forward this draft law so that we can extend the arrangement, the attempt we started in the time of the previous government, most of all because it gives us the opportunity to then negotiate a better and hopefully more permanent solution. Basically, in the Radical Left, we find it difficult to limit people's zeal and ability to contribute and be voluntary and help others. Then, of course, voluntary work is precisely what it is, voluntary work is not employment. That is why we think it is worth listening very carefully to the voluntary organisations, because this is very much their starting point. They are quite clear when it comes to those who have been able to imagine if one could not just take advantage of voluntary action to get something extra done in something that would otherwise be employment. So I am not as concerned as a few others, on the contrary, I think it is time that we came in the direction of allowing volunteers and listening to voluntary organisations. As far as I am aware, it is only for the benefit of people who are unemployed and who are looking for work, and the important thing for me and for the Radical Left is that one is of course available for the labour market and that one's voluntary efforts do not in any way limit the obligation of availability that one obviously has. That is the starting point for us, even in the future work that we look very much forward to. I think we need an even better system for this, but of course we are voting in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180951	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509180954	Thank you. Now the rapporteur says it is important to listen to the voluntary organisations. I actually agree with that. But why is it not important to listen to the trade union movement? I guess it's not just a few. After all, the LO and the FTF represent well on the other side of a million employees in this country. It must be assumed that they have gotten to grips with things fairly thoroughly. You do not automatically have to agree with them, nor do I always agree with them, but here I think they have done a thorough job, and why is it not important to listen to them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181026	Well, that's an assumption, sir. Finn Sørensen is making a move. Surely it is important to listen to everyone who has knowledge about the labour market and about volunteering. We are also doing so in the Radical Left, and I have also taken note of the concerns expressed by the trade union movement here. We have to take these into account. I therefore believe that this has been fully taken into account in the experimental system that exists, and I am sure that we will also be able to take this into account in a future debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181100	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181103	In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur did not mention that we should also listen to the concerns of the trade union movement. It is so good that the rapporteur does so, but where does the rapporteur see that the concerns of the trade union movement have been taken into account, which is, of course, that to some extent this leads to the displacement of ordinary jobs? I can't see that in any way has been taken into account in this bill. On the contrary, the Minister has just made it yesterday. I know that this is a different proposal, but it is on the same track that we should have much more of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181137	I see that there has all of itself been mobilisation among volunteers for many different matters. I think that is really positive. I see that this has been taken into account in the clear emphasis on being available, but then you have an obligation to make available, and you must not in any way replace your availability with voluntary work. I think that is quite clear, and we must, of course, stick to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181214	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Social Liberal Party of Denmark, Radical Left. I would like to welcome Mr. Karsten Hønge of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181228	It is, of course, a real dilemma that we are in when we discuss the possibility of volunteering, while at the same time receiving, for example, the opportunity to do so. daily subsistence allowance. SF is enthusiastic about voluntary efforts throughout society. However, it is also obvious that the LO and the FTF point to a danger which may arise in some situations where ordinary paid work risks being displaced by volunteers, but it would only be a pity if citizens' involvement was to be limited by unnecessary, obscene and zealous rules. Here we have the distinction between voluntary organizations and some professional organizations. Nevertheless, I believe that it must be possible to find a viable common denominator. SF's would like to see a new voluntary agreement where citizens' desire to give a hand combined with security for those who may be concerned about whether their jobs are taken over by volunteers. But there are so many positive resources in the population which should not be held back because of some, we sometimes think, somewhat rigid rules. I don't think you need to see ghosts behind every corner in advance. Fortunately, we do not have a patent on punchlines or phrases, because now I hear that another party is also using the phrase that SF has been trying to market for some decades, namely that we want more society and less state. Against this background, the SF takes a positive view of the bill as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181434	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181438	Thank you. And thank you to the rapporteur. I do not quite understand the positive approach, but maybe with the rapporteur's sense of punchlines I can also try with a • I'm not as good at it as the rapporteur, but I'm allowed to practice. After all, this bill is not about, nor has the experimental system been about, more society and less state; it has not been about that. This is about more voluntary, free labour instead of paid work. That is, of course, the problem in this draft law, because that is what is defined by voluntary unpaid work, namely work usually offered as wage work. And that's what the government and the parties behind this bill are trying to maintain enhanced access to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181539	Well, it's pretty obvious what Mr. Finn Sørensen says, that when something is voluntary, it is not paid; I do not think there is the big innovation in it; it is clear that it is. I just don't think you need to see those ghosts. I believe that being unemployed is not a way of life. Unemployed people are some who are quickly replaced and whether, in the short period for which most people are fortunately unemployed, for 10 hours a week they can do voluntary work, which of course is unpaid, I simply find it difficult to see necessarily to crowd out something. And if it does, we have the opportunity to change the law. I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen sees the problems in advance and therefore does not dare to let go of the forces that also lie in lots of people who just go and bore themselves at home as unemployed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181634	Thank you. This means that the LO and the FTF see ghosts when they warn against this principle and also against going further along that path?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181645	It can be said that the study that has been carried out is done on a slim basis. That's right. But I also think it happens on a flimsy basis that the LO and the FTF refuse to help free up a lot of positive resources in the population. In fact, I think they do, and I also think they show little too little confidence in their own strength in the workplace, where shop stewards and the general supervision of trade unions can monitor whether that displacement is taking place. So I actually believe that if the LO and the FTF would trust something more that they themselves were able to hold, if I may say so, the jobs in their ears, then this will not be a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181720	Thank you. Then I don't have any more on the list. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the Conservative rapporteur. It's Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181730	Thank you. We in the Conservative Group support the draft law, thus restoring the experimental scheme so that beneficiaries of benefits and beneficiaries of early retirement will have to do voluntary work again for up to 15 hours a week without any deduction from their benefits. As committee chairman for the leisure and cultural area in the municipality of Høje-Taastrup, I experience the importance and importance of volunteering in our local communities all the time. The voluntary fire-souls, for they are very often fire-souls, when we talk about volunteers, create in many different ways an added value that we will not be able to buy for money locally. Voluntary work is both about giving something to the recipient and something to the giver. It goes without saying that voluntary action gives something to those who receive, but I do not think we should underestimate how much it also gives to be the volunteer worker. In relation to the individual unemployed, we also believe that it is not just good and valuable that you continue to contribute to society and keep going. At the same time, it maintains one in an opportunity to have something to stand up for in the morning. Finally, there are also many people who live their social lives through their voluntary work and social relations that they get through volunteering. For many, this is not about starting volunteering if you become unemployed. It is also a question of allowing people to maintain the voluntary commitment that they have had while they have been in employment. Both to be hit by unemployment and to be denied access to one's voluntary networks, I do not think it is the most conducive to getting back into employment quickly. So, as I said, we can well support the bill and look forward to the negotiations for a more permanent solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181941	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509181946	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I fully share the rapporteur's description of the values of voluntary action. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that the legislation in force does not contain any restrictions on the voluntary efforts and voluntary activities of citizens of this country, including those who are unemployed and beneficiaries of early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182011	You can do voluntary activities. I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182015	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182017	Well, then I thank you for that confirmation. I must also note that there is no problem whatsoever with what the rapporteur is trying to sketch out. Because that's not what we're talking about in this bill at all. So thank you for confirming that there are no restrictions on what voluntary action and what voluntary activities the citizens of this country can carry out, including unemployed people and beneficiaries of early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182042	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182044	I think it is very important to point out that when you make a voluntary effort and are outside the labour market and unemployed, you still have to be available for the labour market. I think we all agree on that too. Giving volunteers the opportunity to make a great deal of effort, even though they are outside the labour market for a period of time, is an important element of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182110	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and then we have finished the rapporteur's series. Then we give the floor to the Minister for Employment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182118	Thank you for that, and thank you for the consideration of the legislative proposal that has been tabled and discussed here today. After all, there has been broad support for that bill, for which a great many parties also sign for it. It is the case, as several rapporteurs have said, that we are re-establishing the experimental scheme so that beneficiaries of unemployment benefit and early retirement can do voluntary work for up to 15 hours a week without deduction from the benefit. I would like to say today that I think it is important that the rules in this area support voluntary work in Denmark and not work against it. That is why it is also important for me to say that the draft law is only part of a temporary solution. In other words, there are several rapporteurs who have already touched on this today. There is no doubt that I have unfortunately seen and experienced that the existing framework for voluntary work today is both too tight, too zealous and also too hard to understand. I guess you just have to say that. If you delve into the consultation answers, which you can do, it is also one of the things that goes back in a long line of consultation answers from voluntary associations that there are things that you find very difficult to understand because the rules are complicated. As several have also mentioned, yesterday, on behalf of the government, I came up with a proposal on how the rules could look so forward after 1 January 2018. This is something that we are discussing and negotiating with the parties of the Folketing, and I am very pleased to note that there has been broad support for being invited to the negotiations today that are not starting today, I can say, but broad support for starting up these negotiations at least, so that we can be able to present a political agreement that will lead to a legislative proposal that will allow there to be new rules that can then enter into force on 1 January 2018. But, of course, we will have more discussion on this when this bill is discussed, because today it is, in fact, an extension of an old experimental scheme that we are discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182315	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182317	Thank you and thank the Minister for the speech. I should just like to welcome the Minister's statement that he wants to invite the parties of the Danish Parliament to the debate. The Enhedslisten is also very happy to participate in those negotiations. I have, of course, just described what our approach to them is, but it should not rule out a good dialogue on the Minister's presentation when it comes so far that we have to sit down and talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182343	And I'd like to sign for that. For Mr. Finn Sørensen is one of the hard-working readers here in the Assembly Hall who always read everything with smallness and review all the answers to the hearings and all the comments that may be made. But it is clear that Mr. Finn Sørensen, with the courage shown by the Enhedslisten, will of course also have to attend the first negotiating meeting. Then, of course, we also hope that Finn Sørensen wants to stay at the table and seek political influence. I can only encourage that. It is also healthy for Enhedslisten to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182409	The questioner? Apostates. Then we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182425	The debate is open. We give the floor to the Minister for Employment first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182445	Thank you. I will, of course, go over the motion for a resolution tabled here in the Parliamentary Assembly, and also start by just examining what the proposal contains. It contains three parts: firstly, a proposal that the physical and mental working environment be treated in the same way as a change of law; secondly, a proposal that the legal basis be created for the drafting of a psychic working environment; and thirdly, I assume that the proposers also want such a decree to be issued. Let me start with the conclusion that the government cannot support the resolution. On the other hand, I can convey to the authors of the motion for a resolution the joyful news that two thirds of the resolution is already in force today. The physical and psychological working environment is thus already similar in the Working Conditions Act. That is clear from Paragraph 1 (1) of the Act. a that the law includes both the mental and physical working environment. At the same time, the Working Conditions Act already contains a number of provisions which allow for the issue of a psychic health and safety notice. In this context, I can inform you that the Danish concept of psychological work environment covers the same as the Swedish concept of organisational and social work environment. So there is little new to be gained and nothing to gain from the first two parts of the resolution that have already been implemented. But what is it that the government has against the third element of the motion for a resolution to issue a psychic health and safety notice? As such, I am not opposed to the idea of making a psychic health and safety announcement if the social partners so wish. But I do not think it is right now that we should embark on such a project. I am very concerned about what I have also had the opportunity to discuss with the political parties, namely the negative developments in the psychological working environment that we have noted in relation to the latest status of the 2020 objectives, which we have also discussed here in the Parliamentary Assembly. That is also why I have announced that a committee of experts will be set up to carry out the work on health and safety and to make recommendations for a new and improved effort. This is also what the health and safety committee has decided. Rethinking the whole work environment is a great exercise, and it is certainly a very important exercise to ensure that we get the effort back on track. That is why I think it is right that we should now use our powers there and that we should wait for the committee's recommendations before seriously embarking on projects such as the one proposed in the motion for a resolution. So I would like to say that we will return to this discussion and that I am counting on us to be able to see at the beginning of 2018 any proposals that the Committee of Experts might make. That is why I think it is most appropriate to wait for that discussion at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182733	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182737	Thank you. I thought, after we last talked about the 2020 plan and the, I would say, disastrous developments that are in the psychological working environment, but of course also in the muscle skeleton area, that the minister was prepared that it might not be enough with a committee of experts working for six months, but that we should intervene early. At least that's what the minister said to the media after Easter. In 2012, according to the NFA's own figures, 368,000 people went to work where they are exposed to significant mental stress and at the same time have a relatively high degree of symptoms of stress and depression. By 2016, it had risen to 452,000, and it seems that it will rise to 548,000 by 2020 if we do nothing. So I would like to ask the Minister: is there no reason to act and perhaps to skip over where the burden is lowest and then learn from the Swedes, because with their announcement, the Swedes have actually managed some of the psychological work environment? There is no reason why we should have the deep plate invented in Denmark too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182843	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182845	I see no reason at all to invent the deep plate; it is, in fact, already invented. So that is not what we are discussing today. What we are discussing today is, of course, how we are tackling this, I think, very serious problem, which I share. Christian Juhl's considerations about, best on. So I do not think that a resolution we are discussing here is the best framework for making sure that we are now going to make a more structured and orderly effort to reduce the figures and the increase we have seen in relation to the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182917	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509182919	First of all, it is not equal. If we look at how few psychological health and safety injuries are recognised when they are reported, then it is an extremely low figure • I think it is down to 3-4 per cent. of the reported damage. And that is why we need to work on the legislative matter in this area. Secondly, it is of course important that we act quickly when the figures are as they are, if the Minister wants to achieve in 2020 and if we act in depth. Then the committee can sit and think about some new areas. But since we know that there are some things that work, there is no reason to put off the torment and do nothing until a committee of experts has given its opinion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183000	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183001	I think it is essential that we act in both an offensive and a sensible way, and that is why I do not think that the resolution that is before us today provides the framework for the necessary and best resolution. And that's also why I'm against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183016	There are no more brief comments. We thank the Minister and start the rapporteur's line, and the first is the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Lennart Damsbo Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183024	Thank you. The motion for a resolution we are discussing here, tabled by Enhedslisten and SF, concerns the equality of the physical and psychological working environment. And on the part of the Social Democrats, we can say that we fully agree that there must be equality. When we had the power of government, therefore, we also took care to adopt a law that equals the mental and physical working environment. So we are at least entirely in agreement with the fact that we have already done the work that is being proposed to do now. Having said that, we also acknowledge that when you look at reports of psychological injuries, we see that they have exploded, as we have just heard Mr. Christian Juhl mentioned in his questions to the Minister. The number of injuries has exploded, the numbers are rising and, at the same time, we can see that the rate of recognition for psychological injuries is far, far lower than for physical injuries. So there is something that does not really fit together here, and that is a problem that we would like to address in the Social Democratic Party. We are not of the opinion that this is something, but can do it overnight, and Mr. I'm sure Christian Juhl will ask me a few questions. But we are prepared to do this properly, and I have not yet heard anyone in this Chamber or anywhere else who has had an answer or such a quick fix, as they say in English, in relation to this issue. In my view, it is necessary for all those who know something to be involved and for us to do the right thing. And that is not least for the sake of all those who are today on the labour market and for one reason or another are under pressure from the psychological working environment. That is why we are also very pleased that the Minister convenes or sets up a committee of experts which we in the conciliation circle can then deal with, that is to say, what they may come up with. And then we can take a position and decide with each other what needs to be done to ensure a better psychological working environment out there. However, in relation to what the proposal is about, namely the equality of the physical and psychological working environment, we must say that we cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183248	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183251	If, according to the Swedish model, you equate mental and physical work environment, there are at least some things that need to be fulfilled, namely, as point 1, that employers have duties and rules, they do not have many of them today, in the mental field; point 2 that the Factory Inspectorate must be able to intervene, they have a great deal of difficulty in this area; point 3 that the company's health and safety organisation must act and prevent, it is extremely difficult for them and perhaps mostly for the last question, i.e. paragraph 4 • in relation to the need for help and training from the health and safety representative. We really do have a backlog, and there are many health and safety representatives who fight blindly and do not really know what to do with these very, very complicated problems. Does the rapporteur not think that the figures from 2012 have already given clear signals to the conciliation circle that action should be taken and that, in fact, everything has been done for five years, far too little on the part of the conciliation circle in this area, and that it is time to do something? It's not something that's happened last year. It has actually developed over a five-year period.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183332	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183354	I believe, in fact, that I will almost extend what the questioner is saying here and say that I believe it has developed over a long period of time, but that it is only in recent years that we in this Parliament, perhaps also those on the labour market, really relate to the possibility of mental problems in the labour market. Now I'm a carpenter's man myself, and I can at least remember the culture that was in the van, such a kind of take you together-culture, and that you didn't recognize that you could actually feel bad. And that is where I think we have come very, very far in recent years in relation to actually recognising it. The problem now is that in terms of the rights and opportunities that you have out there in the individual workplace, whether it is school or where it is now, you have not yet become good enough to take advantage of the opportunities that exist in order to ensure that, for example, we are able to do so. the psychological work environment is in order out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183450	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183452	Thank you. Now I mentioned four of the things that are the backbone of Swedish efforts, which are now beginning to produce results. Are any of these proposals surprising to the rapporteur? Or is the proposal that the rapporteur has heard about from trade unions, from the left, from other socialists over the last 5-10 years as being good proposals to get started?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183525	No, it's nothing new at all. I think that this should be looked at in its entirety, and that is why I am very pleased that the psychological working environment and the way we are going to deal with it in the future will hopefully also lie in the work with which the group of experts that is being set up will work. Then I know that Mr. Christian Juhl, if he had had the opportunity, would have said to me: Well, is that good enough? I really hope it is. I think it is really, really important that all of us who are interested in this sit around the table and say that now we want to do this properly, and I think that all those who work out in reality can be better off than making quick solutions that do not work anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183610	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183613	I certainly hear that the rapporteur has many good and positive intentions, but I think it will be a little thin when it comes to concrete proposals. Sir. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen thus recognises the importance of giving priority to the psychological working environment, but what is it that the Social Democratic Party would like to do, that is to say, to wait for a group of experts? Isn't there some things you could get started with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183640	In fact, I think it is important at this stage that we are at this very moment that I see it at least not to come up with a complete solution, because why on earth should we have a group of experts? At least I'm not going to be the first to say I'm infallible. I am quite sure that I can come up with some ideas that will then be shot down or where you will find out that it is not good enough. Therefore: A tiny bit of patience it doesn't have to be for very long and then wait for what the expert group comes with. Then we can take the political discussion afterwards and see how much of what they bring we need and what we do not need. But we're going all the way around and not just around it, like mr. Karsten Hønge and I can come up with good ideas together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183721	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183723	It is also the case that there is a public debate about what we can do about it. After all, stress has almost developed into a disease of the population. For example, FTF is now proposing to initiate training for all managers with staff responsibilities, so that they have tools and skills to cope with stress and depression and, in general, challenges in the psychological working environment. What does Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen on such a concrete proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183755	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183756	I am sure that could be quite good, but we do not need to change legislation. This can be done at the individual workplace. We don't have to legislate to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183807	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party, and that is Mr. Bent Bøgsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509183818	Thank you for that, President. The resolution we are debating here is a sympathetic proposal. I understand that the proposal has been put forward, because the psychological and physical working environment is of course important. There is no doubt about it. But when you look at the proposal and compare it with the legislation that exists today, you can also see that there has been equality, as the previous rapporteur also pointed out, between the psychological and physical working environment. There is also the possibility of issuing a notice. So is it the announcement that decides if it's okay? I'm not gonna be able to say that. I have also seen what is being referred to, about the Swedes and about accidents, and I can also see that it is said that they are much more aware of conversations and cooperation in companies. The Swedes are then more authoritative in relation to the rules. That is also what is being said. Whether it's alone that does it, and whether the Danes are both managers and workers are a little more indifferent to the rules than the Swedes are, I shouldn't say so, but we wouldn't at all deny that an announcement has to be worked on. Now, in the conciliation circle, we have agreed to set up a committee of experts to look at the conditions in the working environment, as we can well recognise that it has not worked as it should. There is no doubt about that. And then, of course, we also have to get all the information we can about what we can do and get the parties across them too in the committee of experts to see how it can be done. I assume, then, that the Minister has invited the LO and DA to join the Committee of Experts in making suggestions on how to ensure a better working environment both mentally and physically. We know that the psychological working environment is difficult. Many people have had difficulty talking about it at all, and it was only, I think, after we focused on the psychological working environment that it began to come to light more, that there were major problems. And the more legal it becomes to talk about it, the more problems come out too. We can see that too. In other words, before, at least 15 to 20 years ago, people were very reluctant to talk about the psychological working environment at work. They wouldn't know they had any problems. As I say, it has become more legal today, and that is why, of course, there will also be more that we need to deal with in this context. That is also why we introduced at the time that the safety training courses that were introduced should have some training on how to spot problems with the psychological working environment in the workplace. But now we are awaiting what the Committee of Experts will do and then we will have to take a position on how to ensure that we have better health and safety legislation and manage the mental and physical working environment so that we can reduce the damage. The aim was for accidents to be reduced physically by 20%. and the psychic with 20%. Unfortunately, there has been an increase, we have to recognise that, and that is also a sign that it does not work as it should. However, as I said, we are waiting for the report of the Committee of Experts, and when it comes, I would just like to conclude that we will also be looking at whether a notice should be issued. When they have finished their committee work and when they are expected to do something, we must ask the Minister, but, as I said, because of the fact that there is already equality and that there is an opportunity to issue a notice, we cannot support the proposal. But we do think we should look at whether it can change anything that an announcement is made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184257	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184301	It may well be that it is in the purpose clause of the Working Conditions Act that it should be equal, but in reality it is not equal. After all, no authority has been given to the Labour Inspectorate, regulations that can be used to regulate the area, or training provided. In the physical field of health and safety, we have been working systematically with it for 70 years and have built up legislation that we do not have in the field of mental health and safety. So it is untrue what the Minister says; it is not true what the Minister says. There is no point in the rapporteur repeating an untruth. Can the rapporteur not understand that there has been no equality? We are not at all up to the level of the physical working environment, which means that the mental health and safety area is lagging far behind, and that is also why the conciliation circle cannot keep up with the objectives they set in 2011.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184352	Well, I understand very well what Mr. Christian Juhl says. A piece of legislation has been made, and it was, of course, as Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen said, made under the SR government, and it was agreed in the conciliation circle that there should be equality, and it should be implemented. How the various ministers have dealt with it, I should not be said here, but I assume that when it has been agreed that there must be equality, you will live up to it. I understand what is being said about the fact that the mental health and safety area is not in place. I remember when we sat and worked with it and got introduced into the legislation that on shop stewardship courses one had to have an education on how to spot problems in the psychological working environment. I assume that it has been implemented, but I can then understand Mr. Christian Juhl, that it has not been implemented at all and that no one is being taught it, and of course I should have looked into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184453	Well, now it wasn't me, but sir. Bent Bøgsted, who concluded a settlement agreement in a conciliation group in 2011, set the goal of reducing the problems of the psychological working environment by 20%. They have so far increased by 17 per cent, and if nothing happens, and you put it in a jar, you may risk that by 2020 they have increased by 20 per cent. instead of having fallen by 20%. Isn't it a little upset about trading? And is it not a bit up to the employers to undertake that the Factory Inspectorate can intervene and that the company's health and safety organisation must act and prevent, and that we create some training for the poor people who have to work with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184531	In general, it is important to have cooperation on the job market, both for the employer and for the employee side. One cannot just have a one-sided approach to it; one has to cooperate. That is certainly important, because otherwise nothing will be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184550	Now it's sir. Karsten Hønge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184552	I understand, sir. Bent Bøgsted is out in an exercise, which is like conjuring up equality by just saying: Well, there is equality. As if equality were to come out of the fact that the Minister or Mr. Bent Bøgsted or any other like trying to conjure it up verbally. That is not going to change. I'd like to ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted: How can equality be achieved when it is much harder to recognise a psychological injury than a physical injury?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184620	It is difficult to answer, because it is not us politicians who sit and have to judge each case out there. I don't have a medical degree so I can assess how this is going on. How the various doctors judge whether there is a mental injury or not, I am not able to say. I do not think Mr Karsten Hønge is able to assess that either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184649	No, no, I'm quite aware that sir... Bent Bøgsted isn't a doctor, and I'm quite comfortable with that. But it is not, of course, about us taking a position as doctors, but about us, as politicians, recognising that there is a challenge out there that clearly does not take account of the new people's disease: stress, depression and other mental challenges. Then, as politicians, we will have to go in and do something, and one of the tools could be what is proposed by the FTF and also by the Leaders organisation, namely that all managers with staff responsibilities receive training. There is then the difference that the Leaders do not want it to be mandatory, but they are nevertheless on the same track. What does Mr. Bent Bøgsted about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184730	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184730-2	I assume that those organisations will give an input to the minister in that committee of experts and say that this is what can solve the tasks. If it's, like, sir. Karsten Hønge says that this is what it takes to solve the tasks, and they make a statement to the Minister in the Committee of Experts that that is what can solve the tasks, and then it will be listened to seriously, and then I think the Minister will say that that is what we should do. But now we are waiting for the Committee of Experts to come up with a position on how the working environment should be and how the problems should be solved. Because it has not worked, we recognise it openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184811	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Klaus Markussen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509184818	Thank you. With the motion for a resolution, SF and Enhedslisten propose that we look at Sweden and equate physical and psychological working conditions, so that we create the legal basis for an announcement on the psychological working environment. As the Minister for Employment has just said, this legislation already exists in the legislation on working conditions. The proposal is, after all, a good one, following on from the question debate F 24, where we took stock of the health and safety strategy. So let me start where the F 24 ended. Here we concluded with great concern that the overall strategy is not running as intended. So it makes sense, of course, for the psychological working environment to be on the agenda. It's in all of us's interests. The paradox of this proposal is that the physical and psychological working environment is already regulatoryly similar. Fortunately, the number of serious accidents at work has been significantly reduced. But the number of both physical and psychological injuries has increased, and this is highly questionable, for it is the well-being of the Danes that we are talking about. Prior to the question debate F 24, the Minister for Employment took the initiative to set up a committee of experts responsible for rethinking the whole strategy. I would like to say to the SF and Enhedslisten that we will not be supporting new announcements on the psychological working environment until the expert group has made its recommendations for a new and improved work environment effort. We must create a safer, healthier and safer working environment in all Danish workplaces. However, if we are to do this thoroughly and do it properly, I think we should await the recommendations of the Committee of Experts. Having said that, I understand that the proposers will shed light on the problems now, especially when we know that one fifth of the long-term absence from sick is related to the psychological working environment. And we know that it takes longer to uncover a poor mental working environment compared to the physical one. But I do not believe that the resolution is the way forward. The two are already legally equivalent. So in my optics it makes sense to wait for the committee of experts to rethink the whole work on health and safety. As far as the psychic health and safety notice is concerned, we do not say 'no' to the idea, if that is the way the social partners want it. However, as the Minister mentioned earlier, the same thing is true here. Now, in cooperation with the experts, let us find the right solutions to the challenges we face so that we can get the overall work on health and safety back on track. Against this background, the Left will vote against the motion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185139	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185140	I do not know who is the most long-suffering person in the world whether it is the conciliation circle or whether it is the opposition. Five years you've been sitting here since you made this plan, and it hasn't worked. It's worked exactly the opposite way. The numbers have risen. And then you keep going. The rapporteur says three times that mental and physical working conditions are equivalent. It's notoriously not! If you have to put it on an equal footing because we have been working with the physical for many, many years there has to be an announcement. Then it must be the case that employers have duties and rules. Then it must be the case that the Labour Inspectorate can intervene on a legal basis which is at stake. None of these things apply to the psychic field. How on earth can the rapporteur say that the mental and physical are equal? I don't understand. It's just talk and reading a purpose paragraph. I mean, the mating isn't in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185241	I think I was very precise and emphasised that the two areas of legislation are equivalent in terms of the Working Environment Act. I have respect for Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl's points and views. I also have respect for the impatience that I would be free to interpret the comment and the question as an expression of, in order to improve the health and safety performance. Hopefully, here we share views that it makes sense for a committee of experts to be set up to rethink the work on health and safety and to get it back on track.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185326	[Sound emission]... be honest and then admit that the area is not regulated and that there has not been any real equality. Otherwise, I would like to spend an hour or two explaining it to the rapporteur afterwards. There has been no equality between the physical and the psychic, and then we might as well say it as it is, because it is dishonest to claim something that is not true. I would like to ask something: now that the psychological working environment has deteriorated by 17 per cent, how long does the rapporteur think we should wait for concrete initiatives? How long does the rapporteur think we can afford it, when up to a fifth of the diseases we have cost as hell both in suffering and in money?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185404	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185405	I will choose to ignore the gross accusations of honesty or dishonesty. I say it as it is, namely that the two areas are legislatively equivalent in the Law on Working Conditions. I have respect for it if Mr. Knox... Christian Juhl thinks it's different. As far as concrete solutions are concerned, I am concerned that we will have concrete solutions and that we will have the right solutions, and that is precisely why a committee of experts is being set up, and then I think it is right to wait for the proposals, the comments and the proposed efforts there so that we can do something that works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185445	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line, and this is the rapporteur of the Liberal Alliance, Mrs Laura Lindahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185510	With this proposal, the proposers want to align the physical and psychological working environment with the Swedish model. And I have actually written in my speech that it is clear that this is already the case from a purely legislative point of view, and I can see that, if I say so, we are going to have a debate on whether it is right or not. So I'm gonna skip that part. Instead, I would say that for us, when we talk about working conditions, it is certain that it is both physical and psychological, but I really do recognise what Enhedslisten's rapporteur is saying, namely that there is some regulation that applies only to the physical working environment but does not apply to the psychological, and that is why we in the Liberal Alliance are actually excited about the recommendations that come from the group of experts, because, like the rest of the conciliation circle and also the parties outside the conciliation circle, we agree that this is a serious problem and that something needs to be done about it. In terms of giving a legal basis for making an announcement about new rules in this area, it depends for us to see about the content. It may be sensible to do so, but there are some balances on the question of mental health and safety at work, which is why we also think it makes sense to wait until the recommendations from the expert group have been made. The Liberal Alliance therefore does not support the specific motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185654	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185700	I suspect that all the government support parties have written their speech by the same person or, at least, the paragraph that is written about whether it is equal. We have to have a debate on that another day. I would just like to hear the rapporteur: how much patience and hence a little cynicism has the rapporteur, knowing that since 2011 the problems have grown by 17% for the time being.? The plan for the conciliation circle was that it should fall by 20%. How much ice in the stomach does the rapporteur, to put it a little neutral, then have to let it go? Are we going to over 500,000 or are we going to have to over 550,000 people suffering from poor mental health and safety before we have to act?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185749	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185750	Hopefully we won't. The rapporteur was also present when we had the question debate a short time ago, when everyone in this Chamber recognized the problem that exists and where I also thought the Minister made very clear that this is a high priority in the government and that we are also relatively impatient in this area. So I don't think there's any reason to make it seem like we in the government don't care about this problem, and as if we just let it sail and don't care that there are challenges in this area. 'Cause I think so, sir. Christian Juhl knows we're not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185827	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185828	Well, it's been five years, when it's gone the wrong way, and we know some of the tools that need to be used. Could we not get them started while the specialists think up in a committee so that we do both? Do we have to say that we now have to sit still for six months or three quarters of a year, and then we have to make legislation first and then we have to implement it? Then we are well into 2019 before we begin to see a tiny bit of results, which means that 2020 is approaching at great speed. How does the rapporteur intend to do that 20 per cent? Did you have time to run in at all? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185906	First of all, one of the things we don't have to do in this area is to make patch solutions. It is quick fix that does not improve the situation, and that is precisely why we have set up a group of experts to put in place rules that work and that can correct what is wrong. In any case, I think it is too easy just to stand outside a conciliation circle and knock and continue to claim that we are not doing anything. This has a priority, and it's always been.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185943	There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur for the alternative, and that is Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509185952	Thank you very much. It is quite obvious that there is a major problem in the field of health and safety in Denmark. The Minister for Employment says this quite clearly and the whole circle of conciliation with him. This is among other things. Therefore, the alternative has supported a thorough investigation of the area. We would like to take a step back and analyse this area properly and create a prerequisite for rethinking it in relation to the serious problems that are, rather than patching it up right now. We must do things in the right order, and that is to complete the thorough investigation before deciding which tools are needed to bring about a significant improvement in the working environment in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190053	Thank you. There is just one brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190059	Now the thorough investigation must first be started before it can be completed. The rapporteur said that the thorough examination had to be completed. Now for 25 years we have had a purposeful mark in the Working Conditions Act that we should do something about the psychological working environment, but we have not yet made an announcement, we have not yet given proper tools to the Factory Inspectorate, and we have not yet provided proper tools to the health and safety organisations in the workplace. Does the rapporteur not think that it is a little bit up to use some of the experience that lies in the Kingdom of Sweden, which is in Norway and which lies in Germany? Do we have to wait for a think tank to think about it when we now know that there are some elementary things we have to say and I will say that I will be very surprised if that specialist group does not just point to the four things I have mentioned here today. We might as well set them off. But it's not a quick fix. Well, 20 years is not a quick fix for me. Five years in a conciliation circle is not a quick fix for me either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190201	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190202	If the question is whether we should do something now, I would say no. I do not think we should begin to anticipate an in-depth study and start to construct the components that the study should show whether the right ones are right. I simply do not think so. It's not in my hands, but it's up to the conciliation circle to decide.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190225	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190226	Yes, it is in the hands of the Alternative. Because the alternative was in the first place, we made a proposal for this, but quite rightly we withdrew, as the rapporteur says, and said that we would be content with a study. We propose to do both, which means that we are now acting in elementary areas which everyone knows are necessary to produce results. That is to say, you could do something now and then you could fine-regulate when otherwise the fine thoughts were in place. Now we will see what happens, but I have so little wish to say that the figures need to increase even more. There are 452,000 Danes suffering from this, and we will be up to 550,000 by 2020. There is reason to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190307-2	I also understand the indignation of the rapporteur. I would also like to say that virtually all the ideas I have heard from the rapporteur have quality. I do not know whether many of them will not be considered, like many of the good ideas that have come through time. It's up to the conciliation circle. But I still want to warn you that you start making changes before you have done the study that says which changes are the smartest.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190338	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190340	I'm quite frankly surprised that sir... Torsten Gejl more or less pledges his political capital in either a committee of experts or a conciliation group. I think it would be great if the alternative were to play its part in the debate that is taking place, and it might also give some hope to the many people out there who are drawn every day with a miserable psychological working environment, if today's alternative were to come up with some concrete proposals that could be addressed instead of, as I see it a little, leaning back and hoping for the best.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190410	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190412	The last thing I want to do is to stand here and anticipate the outcome of a study and make some concrete proposals. I do not think it is wise in the Folketing, I do not think it is wise in the business world, I do not think it is wise in the organizational life, I do not think it is wise anywhere in the public sector to start pre-empting an ongoing study with temporary solutions because there is a serious problem. This does not mean that I am saying that all the solutions proposed are bad. However, I think it is patently wrong to start pre-empting an investigation by providing solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190442	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190444	Is it really true that the alternative does not have a policy in this area and that, if it were to be, we would not have to dedicate the rest of us to it? Or has it really just been pawned in circles beyond the range of the alternative? There are, of course, some things that we probably do not need experts to tell us about, namely that, for example, we do not need experts to tell us about. The training of managers with staff responsibilities would help to do something about it, making it easier to recognise a psychological injury to work. I guess you could do something like that and say that we don't have to wait for a committee of experts. Moreover, we have waited plenty of years for something to be done about the psychological working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190521	So I can say that the ideas are sympathetic, but throwing them in now is like building a house where you start with the door, and then you wait with the rest, until the architects and all those who understand it come and say what the rest of the house should be like, and then, if the door doesn't fit there, answer that it should be there. So it will be like freezing some components to solve a problem before you have done the study to show if they are the right thing to do. I'm never gonna think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190549	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the rapporteur on the Radical Left, and that is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190559	Thank you. In the Radical Left too, we believe that there is a great deal to be done to improve the mental and working environment at all. After all, we had the discussion recently on the health and safety strategy and the 2020 strategy, as it says, on the working environment, and I think we had a really, really good debate. I also think that the debate that is also reflected in the debate we have today is serious and I think that the Minister takes the objections of the conciliation circle and other parties very seriously. I think it is quite obvious that everyone broadly recognises that we cannot just continue as we have done so far. As we also discussed recently, it is going the wrong way with the psychological working environment and indeed also with the stressful physical working environment, and since it has been mentioned a great deal of times, I will not spend much time repeating it, but just say that an effort has been undertaken, as it has been decided by the conciliation circle to set up the expert group and get a thorough light on it, in order to get the best basis for action. We in the Radical Left also have a very strong focus on the psychological working environment. We proposed, as I also mentioned in the previous debate, ten concrete proposals to improve the working environment last year, and we will of course take them into account. It is obvious that the cuts in the Factory Inspectorate have and have had major consequences, and we need a more comprehensive prevention effort in relation to the legislation on working conditions and probably also in relation to some training efforts and special supervisory efforts. We know that they are far more effective than the risk-based supervision we have today. So we've been through with it, too. It is also obvious that there should be more research into the psychological working environment. I think we need to prevent violence either in the form of campaigns or in other ways, and this applies both in terms of physical and, indeed, very much in terms of psychological violence, because it costs us as much as society, because it has so much human impact, but also because it is obviously an investment worth doing. We have far too much sick leave because of both physical and psychological violence in the workplace, and we need to learn more generally about how mental wear and tear affects a whole working life. Where is it possible to intervene? That is one of the things we have set in motion, and I look forward to doing so very much. I think we've been through this thoroughly. That is also why the Radical Left is very much in favour of the intensions of this, but I am pleased to be part of the work that has been set in motion and I am absolutely convinced that there is a strong and broad majority that has both the will and the ability to act on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190943	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509190948	Thank you. Does the rapporteur think that it is a strong and broad majority that set a target in 2011 to improve the psychological working environment by 20%, and then it has deteriorated by 17%.? Is it a strong and broad majority? I think one thing is to set a target in 2011, another thing is to make an action plan. Either that action plan was missing or it was not sufficient. Is it a strong and broad majority in favour of action in the field of mental health and safety? And if so, does the rapporteur not think that it will go all the way to the next three years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191026	No, in fact, I think that what is strong is to recognise the obvious challenges that exist, and among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I think it is both strong and responsible to do so and to have the problem clarified in detail. I agree with the questioner that it has not gone the wrong way in all areas; there are therefore also a number of areas where improvements have been made, but in the field of mental health and safety, it has obviously gone the wrong way, as is the case in some places where there is a very physical stressful working environment. At present, I feel convinced that we are going to act on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191124	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191126	It's been 25 years since we might have written it into the purpose clause. It is at least 25 years since we started training occupational psychologists. I would ask the rapporteur to tell me which of these four things she does not believe will be included in an action plan from a specialist committee: that employers have duties and rules; that the Factory Inspectorate has a regulatory basis, for example. a proper announcement, to work on the basis that the company's health and safety organisation must act, prevent and train for it; and that we must also ensure that managers receive training. Which of these things aren't going?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191206	I think that was a mysterious question. I would never want to exclude things from a committee which has just been set up to work and make proposals. I wouldn't want to exclude anything from that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191222	Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the SF rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Karsten Hønge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191233	The majority of parliament has high expectations of how long future employees will be able to work. However, this is very poorly linked to the insufficient investment in a better working environment, although the context is quite obvious. The appropriations for the Labour Inspectorate have fallen despite decisions on reductions in the early retirement age and the increase in the retirement age. It doesn't add up. On the contrary, the SF proposes massive investment in a better working environment, primarily for the sake of the individual employee's opportunities for a good life, but at the same time it will also increase the likelihood that people can work longer. Between 2007 and 2016, appropriations for OSH efforts have been reduced by 180 million. kr. or approx. 20 per cent, and a completely new study by the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work shows that it is going the wrong way. The proportion of employees who are physically or mentally overloaded has increased over the last four years. The survey is based on responses from 35,000 employees, and it shows that since 2012 there are 17 per cent. more who are mentally overloaded, and 15%. multiple, which have overload of muscles and skeletals. We're in a hole, so we shouldn't immediately stop digging. Stress has gone on and become the new people's disease, and it is high time that a comprehensive coordinated work was set in motion. 35,000 health reports every day are due to psychological circumstances, many in the workplace have a backache, and a lot of people have a management problem. Half of the country's managers with staff responsibilities are not trained in dealing with stress and mental health and safety. If we are to do something about public disease stress, we need to do something about it. a requirement is introduced for all managers to undertake a mental health and safety education. We need to put the psychological working environment on an equal footing with the physical one. The president of the FTF, Bente Sorgenfrey, said recently: "One way for jobs to really equalise physical and psychological working conditions is for managers to see the area. They must have knowledge and concrete tools to ensure a good psychological working environment in the workplace. There must be a requirement for all managers with staff responsibilities to receive in-service training in the mental health and safety environment within the first year. The focus must be on prevention, retention and knowledge of factors that promote a good mental health and safety environment, and training can be provided by a number of approved public and private providers, just as we see from the current mandatory OSH training. It may be easier to see the physical damage, but in fact the Institute for Public Health has estimated that poor mental health and safety at work contributes to 1,400 deaths per year. Barely 15%. of those employed have symptoms of stress or depression due to bullying, violence, threats of violence or psychosocial influences in the workplace. At the same time, it is estimated that one out of every five long-term health reports is due to poor mental health and safety conditions. The FTF has calculated that poor mental health and safety at work costs in the region of 32 million. kr. annual because of sickness absence, early retirement and health care costs. A study by Epinion on behalf of the LO and the FTF shows that in the past 12 months, one in three employees has experienced sickness absenteeism on the job, which could have been avoided if management had had better skills. Let us be inspired by among others. Sweden and give the psychological working environment something as simple as its own announcement. The President of the 3F, Per Christensen, recently said: "Stress must never become the individual employee's problem. Studies show that poor management is the main obstacle to employees being able to avoid stress and poor working conditions. In the organisation Leaders, who organize more than 100,000 managers, are also in favour of more people being trained in mental health and stress management, although they will not make it mandatory. We need to rethink the whole work environment. SF proposes six concrete bets. We propose a national action plan against stress; that stress clinics be set up that can quickly provide free help; that we get a new hotline for poor mental health and safety; that there be better opportunities for recognising a psychological injury; that the Factory Inspectorate gets a boost; and that managers have a psychological work environment on the school schedule.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191739	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move forward in the rapporteur's line and that is the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191753	Thank you for that, President. We in the Conservative People's Party can only endorse the concern of the previous rapporteurs and the proposers that the psychological working environment should develop in the wrong direction. The proportion of people in work who are mentally overloaded has increased, and we must, of course, have reversed the negative trend. This requires rethinking and strengthening efforts in the field of health and safety, because you should not get sick from going to work, either physically or mentally. We therefore expect a great deal from the committee of experts who will be responsible for the work in the field of health and safety and will make recommendations for a new and improved effort. We will not deny that it may make sense to draw up a psychic health and safety notice, but in respect of the work of the Committee of Experts, we would like to await their recommendations and then take the debate on their basis. Against this background, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191902	Thank you, and there is a brief comment from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191906	The 2020 action plan was created in 2011, and it has gone the wrong way. We have repeated this for each other time and again. Over the last 25 years, we have made a report after the report and made a study after the study of the psychological working environment, what makes the rapporteur think that a new expert opinion should now be made? We have a bunch of them in my office, at least some of them. I mean, what else does it take? Is it not an unpleasant form of cynicism to say that one wants another group of experts to work when we know a lot about what to start while that group is working?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509191953	I understand that the rapporteur is impatient. I believe that everyone who has been on the platform has indicated that they are. They really want something done in this area. I just think that, in view of the fact that a group of experts has been set up, which makes some recommendations, we are awaiting them and have their recommendations included in the solutions on which we hope to reach agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509192017	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509192019	The rapporteur says in respect of a working group, but it has not yet been set up. Is it not disrespect for the many people, doctors, professors and psychologists who have worked for 25 years and who have delivered and supplied and documented and documented? Doesn't it matter? Does the rapporteur not think that this might sound a little hollow and a little backward? It is as if they are saying that we must start all over again and that it was yesterday that the psychological working environment was invented. It's not like that. This is a rather old problem, perhaps as old as the rapporteur; I do not know.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509192053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509192056	It is also in respect of those people who have challenges with the psychological working environment. After all, it is they who must be the primary target group in relation to whom we should respect. We would like the right solutions, and I therefore believe that we will have that if we have the area properly examined and, on the basis of that, the right decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509192120	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on, and that is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, and that is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509192137	I would like to admit that I am rather impatient. If we have a labour market where we have had a need for regulation in the mental health and safety area for at least 25 years, because we have recognised that there are problems, and now it is said that we should try to do one more study to find the right thoughts, wondering if you say, in 2018 or 2019, that no, these thoughts were not good enough, so now we are doing another study and another study. The psychological working environment has not been discovered yesterday or a year ago or in 2011 when the action plan was drawn up. It has actually been recognised for generations and entered into the Working Environment Act in the previous millennium. If we are to do something, we must act, and I think it is responsible not to act in the areas we know are changing. There are some who have huge, huge responsibilities, especially those who have cut the Factory Inspectorate; those who have deteriorated the working environment organisation in our workplaces. Because that's one of them. Some of the problems have also arisen as mentioned by the SF rapporteur: lack of training, reduction of training for health and safety representatives and managers. It has been systematically cut down over the last 10 years. This is something that should be considered in those parties that now think that we should take another half to a full year before we act. It is a responsibility not to act in my opinion. There's no quick fix in it. There is no equality of physical and mental working conditions in practice. There is no notice that can be used by the Labour Inspectorate to act effectively. There are no proper conditions for health and safety organisations out there where these problems have to be dealt with in practical terms. There it is quite, quite clear that it is the management that we must ensure that we are trained. Management is not qualified enough to lead in a way that avoids these diseases. The health and safety representative must receive much better training and employers must have duties and rules. There is a glaring absence of duties and rules in the field of mental health and safety. For 100 years we have made rules and duties for employers in the physical working environment. Yes, right from the start, where industrialization began in Denmark, we had laws on the physical working environment. It is well regulated and new notices and guides have been made every time a new technology has emerged. Just think how much we've spent the last 5 years on what is called nanotechnology... a physical impact that we're now trying to find solutions for. What if we had just spent one tenth of the same resources on mental health and safety problems? Then we would have moved on a little bit. That is why we have asked that we get a notice that we do not invent the deep plate, but just hand over the sound and say: "Oh, come on, there are some who have found out that if you regulate firmly, make an announcement, give some duties, make the Factory Inspectorate work and make the Working Environment Organisation work, then it gives prompt results. The people who are now waiting and are not doing what we know can be done in the first place take responsibility for the people who think we have to wait until a committee is ready and thus allow the figures to rise, so that more people are burdened by these things, more people get sick and more people have to go to work and feel worse on the way home. It sounds so great when Conservatives and Leftmen say no one gets sick from going to work. No, I totally agree with that. But it certainly takes action to achieve that goal. That's why SF and Enhedslisten have made this proposal to try to start this process. After all, we have not refused to set up a committee of experts. We have said that we will reject the fact that the committee of experts must be the only thing we do. This has been totally rejected by a number of the responsible parties. It has even been called a strong initiative by the conciliation circle. Last year 452,000 went to work in a poor psychological work environment. They were exposed to what is called significant mental stress. It is even an increase of some 80,000 Danes. So it's not 100 people, it's not 1,000 people, it's not 10,000 people who are burdened by this. These are 452,000 people, and the NFA says that by 2020 there will be 548,000 who go to work and are exposed to significant mental stress and at the same time have a relatively high level of symptoms, of stress and depression. This means that the fine plan that was made in 2011 may end up as a total scandal. Instead of improving the working environment by 20%. In the psychic field, we risk seeing it deteriorate. There may be people in the Danish Parliament who have no knowledge about this. It's clear, you can't know everything about everything. But if you look at the countless reports and studies that have been made since we recognised the psychological health and safety problems in the Danish Working Environment Act, there's enough literature for both this weekend and next weekend and for all MFs who will get a little bit into it. One speaks against better knowledge when one says that it will be better; that it will be better by itself, by setting up a committee of experts. What is happening at the moment is that it is going the wrong way. What is happening while you sit back is that there are no stops in this area, because there are no legislative stops that are effective enough. The Labour Inspectorate cannot intervene in this area with the tools they currently have. The Working Environment Organisation cannot act. I think that patience is almost limitless among the people who are currently sitting on the majority. I also think the cynicism of cynicism, when you do not act is quite unbelievable. It was the rapporteur of the Left who said directly that one fifth of all illness in Denmark originates from a poor mental health and safety environment. Think of the incredible suffering for these people and their families. Think we're just gonna let it go. Think that we have not acted on what we have had. And think of how much it costs the community a fifth! I am not saying that in one year we can solve everything, but imagine if we started systematically reducing the fifth of the sick people. Then I think there were some who would cheer at work and say, "Oh, my gosh, now it's a responsible parliament." Now there are some who mean what they say and act upon it. I am somewhat sad after this debate because I do not understand how a minister can have ice cream in his stomach and patience to say: we are setting up a committee of experts. It hasn't even been set up yet. It's been three weeks since we last talked about these things. And it's probably gonna have to work half a year to a whole year. It's not responsible, sir. Minister. There must be action on this, and we know a number of things that can be done. I will conclude by repeating the things that could be done, and then those who think that this is not what needs to be done can tell us what should be done instead. Employers must have duties and rules. A notice shall be drawn up to serve as the basis for the action. The Factory Inspectorate must be able to intervene on a proper basis, i.e.: a notice as a minimum and a number of guides. The company's health and safety organisation must act and prevent. Health and safety representatives and management must receive proper training, and not least, as Mr. Karsten Hønge says that management representatives in charge must have a significantly better education before they are allowed to work with people like this. Because they make people sick with the way they look today. It's not rocket science. This is elementary knowledge that everyone who works with the working environment knows, and if you continue with this, you have assumed the responsibility of allowing even tens of thousands of people to become ill with a poor mental working environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193118	There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Lennart Damsbo-Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193123	Thank you. I can assure you that the rapporteur will speak warmly here. No one can be in any doubt as to what Enhedslisten and, incidentally, SF mean in this matter, and I just have to say for the record that I am not saying anything else. This is a deep, deeply serious problem. The difference between Enhedslisten and e.g. The social democracy is, of course, that the Social Democrats take responsibility together with the other parties in the conciliation circle. We're gonna take responsibility and say we're gonna do something about this. We are not doing what the rapporteur says: I have four ready-made solutions. I'll be fine in five minutes, and we'll take care of everything. We're gonna take responsibility and say we're gonna do this in a proper way. The rapporteur may think that three weeks is a long time, but three weeks is a very short time. I have the expectation that this work will be completed as soon as possible, and I think my colleagues in the conciliation circle will agree with me on that. Having said that, I would like to acknowledge that there may be parties other than the parties in the conciliation circle that have an interest in this issue. So my question to Enhedslisten's rapporteur is really about the reason why Enhedslisten, together with the SF, is putting forward this proposal that we are discussing today. Is this an expression of the desire of Enhedslisten to be part of the conciliation circle, to assume responsibility and to participate in the negotiations that will take place afterwards?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193247	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193250	It's not been 3 weeks since a 2020 plan was drawn up that was 5 years ago. It is 25 years since we recognised that there are psychological health and safety problems. I personally feel that it is both to take responsibility to participate in voting through some things if you think they are good enough, but also to point out when there are shortcomings. Imagine if no one ever pointed out that there were shortcomings and you nodded 'yes' to any minister in office. Then I think it would be much, much slower to make improvements in this country. Imagine if there weren't some trade unions and some active people yelling up and saying, "This has to be better." We would like to take responsibility if it is to take responsibility to point out what needs to be done, and when we have knowledge of some basic things, it is also irresponsible not to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193349	I thought my question was very simple. Is everything like Enhedslisten and mr. Christian Juhl has said both here today and also to the question debate we had three weeks ago on exactly the same subject, an expression that Enhedslisten wants to take on the responsibility that it really is to sit around the table and be part of the conciliation circle? There must be a clear yes or no answer to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193423	I assume a responsibility to point out what we can do now, and I would like to contribute to that if I could be invited to do so. I would think that SF would like to, but I only answer on my own behalf. I have said that if we are invited, we will come and share the experience and knowledge we have, and if the conciliation circle still wants to decide for itself, then you just do it or you involve us. I think this is the fifth time I have cried out to be involved and to be allowed to contribute the knowledge I have, and I should like to do the sixth, seventh and eighth time if it can lead to action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193502	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193505	It is quite interesting to hear about those who sit in the conciliation circle, those who really take responsibility, those who will really try to change some things. Of them, the rapporteur says that if they do not take responsibility and change this, they are cynical. That's what we hear. But when you have to point to yourself, as I hear the rapporteur say, you only have to point out yourself. That is the responsibility that the rapporteur will assume: sir. Christian Juhl will only point out. But the rest of us who really go in and take responsibility are cynical because we are obviously not doing what Mr. Christian Juhl will. We haven't gotten the answer yet. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193548	The Enhedslisten has come to each and every debate we have been invited to, and we are also conducting the negotiations. However, we are not voting for deterioration in the working environment. We do not accept that we have to live five years of systematic deterioration in the psychological working environment. That's what I call taking responsibility. I get off when there's deterioration. In my opinion, this is the greatest responsibility. The whole sitting thing, just because you have to sit in a conciliation circle, has nothing to do with responsibility. It has just as much to do with just letting things happen. And it's happened. It has happened notoriously over the last five years that we have deteriorated the psychological working environment, and the Social Democratic Party has a share of responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193628	So that means that when you have to enter into some negotiations, and if you do not just get your will one hundred percent as Enhedslisten wants, you will not take responsibility at all, and then you can say that all sorts of others are cynical, and then you just want to stand up here and point out. In other words, you have become a member of parliament to point things out. I think that's impressive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193648	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193650	Well, it's quite simple. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen can try to invite SF and Enhedslisten and see what happens. You have the right to remain at a table, you have the right to throw others out, and you also have the right to leave if it gets too poor. That's the way negotiations are. Now I have pointed out what direction I would like to take and if it can seem attractive to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, then I think he should take and invite Enhedslisten and SF to the next negotiations as we start making improvements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193719	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Employment Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193743	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 11 May 2017. We shall not go into the explanatory statement of the draftsman of the opinion of the authors of the question. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193819	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for using this evening. This is a rather unusual question debate, since it deals with the internal working methods of the government. And I recognize that as well, and I think the whole of the Danish Parliament recognizes it. However, if we want to have a discussion about it, it is also because it affects us politicians, that is, the work of parliamentarians in relation to negotiations and the way we work with ministers and ministries, but it also affects the legislation that ultimately comes out and affects the lives and everyday life of citizens. That is why we have nevertheless found it appropriate to take it up, despite the fact that, of course, we recognise that a government has the right to adapt as it pleases. So I hope for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193917	Thank you. Then it is the Prime Minister for answering the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509193926	Thank you so much. Of course, I would like to spend an evening discussing the role of the Ministry of Finance, so what else would I get the evening to do? So I've been looking forward to it a lot. And the questioners have asked me to assess whether it is appropriate for the Ministry of Finance to have as much influence as it has on all policy areas. Let me begin by expressing my support for this question, because, as stated in the government base, the government's vision is a Denmark of growth, because growth and prosperity are the prerequisites for welfare. At the same time, it is very important for the government to pursue a responsible economic policy. This is because the economy has filled some of the overall picture on top of some challenging years in Europe and in the world in general. We have also seen this in Denmark, and this has of course affected the political priorities. We have constantly had to make difficult decisions that have been necessary to ensure the resilience of the Danish economy. We can then rejoice that the Danish economy is in very good shape. This is not least due to the responsible economic policy of this government, the former Left Government and former VK governments, and here the Ministry of Finance plays an absolutely natural and central role in the conduct of the government's economic policy. This is true under the present government as well as under previous governments. This is due to the simple fact that it is in this way the task of the Ministry of Finance. So yes, the Ministry of Finance is central to my government and has been it for my former governments. This is one of the reasons why things are actually going well in Denmark. It is the case that the constitution is based on the arrangement that the government is set up as a ministerial system. And the ministerial system basically means that each minister, as head of administration, has an independent competence and responsibility within his administration area. This also means that political decisions are taken by the minister responsible in the individual areas and, in fact, not by the government as a college. As a picture of the ministerial system, it has been stated in the literature of State law that the executive consists of a number of co-ordinated pyramids, each with its own minister at the head. And on the occasion of this question about the role and influence of the Ministry of Finance on other ministries, it makes a little sense to explain these things. I'll be happy to do that when I'm asked. But I would first like to make it clear that, in line with previous governments on principle, I do not wish to comment on issues relating to purely intergovernmental relations, and I also had to understand that there was respect about that. Thank you. For how the government organises its work internally and who is involved in what and when is a matter for the government. I shall not go into that further today. But, in other words, the rule of the constitution is that it is the Prime Minister who appoints the ministers and that the government is made up of the ministers appointed by the Prime Minister. This does not mean that the Prime Minister is completely free to appoint ministers. After all, it also follows from the Constitution that no government can be constitutionally appointed which is likely to be faced with a motion of censure in the Folketing. On the other hand, there is no need for support. That is what is called negative parliamentarianism. The Constitution does not contain rules which specify the number of ministers or the fields of work of individual ministers, also known as resort. On the other hand, it is up to the Prime Minister, under the Constitution, to determine the number of ministers and the distribution of administrative areas between them. And since the Prime Minister's competence directly follows from the Constitution, the legislature, the Folketing, cannot with binding effect determine the number of ministers or the distribution of administrative areas between ministers. So it is up to the Prime Minister in office at any time, under the Constitution, to decide which responsibility should be the responsibility of each minister, including the Minister of Finance. Of course, this also has an impact on which cases, for example. The Minister of Finance is involved in this. And, as I have said, it is, in fact, the task of the Minister of Finance to be involved in matters of government policy. However, it is also important for me to stress that this is a natural consequence of the distribution of competences which the ministerial system expresses that political decisions are taken not by the government as a college but by the minister who has been given responsibility for a given matter. Moreover, it is a natural consequence that there is no minister with overall competence in relation to others. So the premise in the question, that is, that the Ministry of Finance should have an influence on all areas of the resort, is therefore not correct. It is both formal and indeed the case that the Ministry of Finance has its seat, as do other ministries. Let me also make it clear that it is not the ministries as authorities but the ministers who take the political decisions. They are, of course, based on the professional advice which ministers receive from the government departments. If a majority of the Folketing is opposed to the way in which a given minister manages his seat, the rule of the Constitution is that the Folketing has the power to exercise political responsibility vis-à-vis the Minister. Thus, under the Constitution, a minister cannot continue in his duties if a majority in the Folketing has expressed distrust of him or her. However, when it is important to make it clear that each minister is responsible for his or her area within the ministerial system, it is not least because there is also a legal dimension to the responsibility of ministers, which also arises from the constitution. Each Minister shall be responsible for his/her territory and for his/her territory only. See, my intention in this account of the constitutional framework of the ministerial system, including the political and legal responsibilities associated with it, is not to give the impression that there is no government coordination between ministries and between ministers, because it is an entirely natural part of sitting in government. This applies to the present one and, as I think it was also sought by the previous one. Of course, coordination is natural when a government is made up of several parties which, of course, will not always agree on all the details. But it has to be done, for example. is also coordinated when the government's policy on matters relating to the responsibilities of several ministers is to be determined. Often it will be the case that policy in the fields of other ministers goes beyond policy in the field of finance, because there is an economic implication. That is why the Minister of Finance will typically be involved in this coordination, so it is. In this way there are some ministers in the government who have some cross-cutting tasks, not that it makes them superior, but they have cross-cutting tasks. This applies in addition to the Minister for Finance, for example. also the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The ongoing coordination takes place particularly in the context of ministerial meetings and the various intergovernmental committees set up, particularly the government's coordination committee and the government's economic committee. These committees of government are, moreover, quite broadly composed. The intergovernmental coordination that is taking place does not shake the fact that we in Denmark have a ministerial system, as I have already explained. I hope that this explanation of the constitutional framework of the ministerial system has helped to create a greater degree of clarity so that we can point out the myth that has emerged that the Ministry of Finance should have a special influence on other ministerial areas. As I said, that is not the case. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509194703	Thank you, Prime Minister. We shall now proceed to the negotiations. You start by giving the author of the question Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen the opportunity to clarify the question. Welcome back.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509194728	Once again, I would like to thank the Prime Minister. As I started by saying, this is a rather unusual question debate. After all, the Prime Minister has just told us a little bit about the constitution and the whole system. I also tried to start by saying that we fully recognise it. However, when we think it is up to the Folketing to discuss the growing power and influence of the Ministry of Finance, it is because it affects our work as parliamentarians; it affects our democratic work and the content of the legislation that ultimately affects citizens' lives every day. It is, of course, the right of the government to adapt as the government wants within the law and the framework of the constitution. I also recognise that it is the role of the Ministry of Finance to ensure that the economy and budgets are well managed. However, over the last 20 years there has been a shift in power and the Ministry of Finance has gained ever greater power, including in areas that do not cost new money and where there could clearly be a higher degree of professionalism in the ministries. There are also some former heads of department who have expressed their views on this. This applies, among other things, to: Jesper Zwisler, who has said: "My problem is when it comes to filling too much. Then what can be politically discussed becomes simply too narrow. Thus, the solutions that we can deliver in relation to the challenges and problems that modern welfare society has today are simply not good enough. Jesper Zwisler was Head of Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs and spoke with experience from work under several ministers from different parties. I also believe that most politicians who are in here today, who have not been ministers or who may have been, but who have also been rapporteur, have experienced negotiations. Then you can see a handsome young woman or man over in the corner, youngest clerk sent out from the Ministry of Finance. The person is nice and nice, but has a function, a form of social control, which is to ensure that the Minister is not going to promise too much, and also to report back to the Minister for Finance and the Ministry of Finance. It has developed into detailed management of the negotiations and the role of the Minister and the Ministry. These are not only department heads, but also former ministers such as Mr. Martin Lidegaard and Mr. Bertel Haarder, who has pointed out the problem. The latter has said: "It has become more difficult to be a minister, and one of the reasons is that the Ministry of Finance today interferes in the detail of how each ministry spends money. I do not think anyone disagrees with the fact that the Ministry of Finance has as a coordinating role to ensure that the economy is overall managed, that the budgets are respected and that spending policies should not be put on the shelves as it is called. But when we get in there where very specific areas of trade policy cannot be discussed because they need to be regulated in detail by the Ministry of Finance, I think we simply have a democratic problem. Another example is the exchange-pool negotiations, which are also designed by the Ministry of Finance, and the preliminary negotiations are also taking place there until there is not much more to negotiate, and then you can go to the ministries. It is also happening over and over again that in negotiations we are proposing something which the Minister may actually agree with and which does not even cost extra money, but the standard answer is that we have to go straight back to the Ministry of Finance. This is not at all a criticism of the government officials in the Ministry of Finance. That would also be totally unreasonable, because it is political decisions that have led to it being as it is today. It hasn't always been like this. This has been the case for the last 15, 20 years, completely the same under changing governments, so it is not a criticism of the Prime Minister either. It is simply a development that has taken place where we are some who think that the Ministry of Finance has perhaps become equally legal governing. I think it is a pity that sometimes a minister is tied on his hands and feet, or when there are areas where one can look at a trade ministry, that if they and the investments are made within the Ministry's own financial framework, then perhaps money will be saved in the long term. It will be an investment, but it cannot be done here and now because of the governance that exists. So that is actually the reason for today's debate, and I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left, the Alternative and the SF: Proposals for adoption The Parliament notes that it is the responsibility of the current government to organise the work of the government and ministries at all times. The Danish Parliament notes that in recent years there has been a considerable centralisation of political decisions, particularly in the Ministry of Finance, rather than in the individual ministries of resort, and that this challenges both the development of political solutions and the democratic legitimacy of decisions. Parliament calls on the government to ensure greater leeway for political development between the ministries of the Council, the Folketing and the citizens in respect of the financial framework. • V 101).
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195314	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no comments. Then I would like to welcome Mr. Erik Christensen from Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195328	Thank you. First thanks to the SF for raising this query debate. As the Prime Minister explained in his speech, according to the Constitution, it is the Prime Minister's task to determine and determine the number of ministers in the government, including the division of business between them. It is the right of the government in office at all times to set up and distribute the ministries of the resort according to what it considers to be optimal. In fact, we in the Social Democratic Party think this is a good principle. The Prime Minister's Office therefore carries out tasks relating to the formation of government and the appointment of ministers, which it best serves the current government. This is a principle which we in the Socialist Group support. This also means that it is the right of the current Prime Minister to decide how the Treasury operates. However, for those who would like the Folketing to have greater influence, I would like to remind you that we in Denmark have negative parliamentarianism, so that, in the extreme, a majority in the Folketing can choose to dismiss a government if it is considered that the administration is completely unacceptable. It is the view of the Social Democrats that budgetary management is essential for a responsible economic policy so that the financial framework laid down is respected and respected. At the same time, however, it is crucial that there is room for innovation and innovation in the individual ministries. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I have to make the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of the Prime Minister's statement on the constitutional framework of the ministerial system, which applies to the activities of ministries, including the Ministry of Finance. The Danish Parliament also notes that it is of course important that the respective ministries continue to have room for innovation processes and innovation thinking, but that this must be done within the financial framework laid down. V 102).
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195513	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195519	Thanks for the speech. After all, it was much like the Prime Minister's speech in such a slightly shorter form. I don't think that's a coincidence either. I agree with much of what the rapporteur says, precisely that we have a system that is enshrined in the constitution, that we have a ministerial system and that we have negative parliamentarism. Hopefully we'll all be aware of that in here. But once in a while, you can raise issues without distrust of the Prime Minister or of a government or of individual ministers. It is nothing more than that we have been able to see over several decades that there has been a development that is not blue or red, but which is moving towards more and more government by the Ministry of Finance. It is not a criticism of any official; it is simply an indication that it may actually harm the policy that comes from the ministries. That is the part that I would like the rapporteur to address. It has nothing to do with trying to overturn a government or express distrust, but with the substantial in relation to the legal quality of the ministries.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195635	But we still have to deal with the fact that it is the Prime Minister who is always in office who determines the areas of responsibility of the individual ministries and, at the same time, the Prime Minister who is in office at all times determines how transversal the work of the Finance Minister should be. That is the case, and that is also the case from a constitutional point of view. So that's why it's kind of a pseudo-discussion. You may have an idea of that, after all, there are some parties that have too much influence on the Minister of Finance, but it is still the case that if the Prime Minister and government in office wants it to be that way at all times, then that is the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195718	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195720	But if that is the position of the Social Democrats, then I must also accept that it will not be any different under a new government with a social democratic leadership. Again: This was not a criticism of the Prime Minister as the Left Prime Minister. We can only note that this is simply something that has happened and it has not fallen from the sky or come in with the Constitution. It is a development that has taken place on the basis of some political choices that have been made. We can point out some working conditions we have as parliamentarians, without wanting to make legislation or show distrust of a government. We can do that in this Chamber too. However, I have no further questions for the Minister, I apologise to the rapporteur, because I can just say that I find it rather sad that there is no reason to do anything different because everything is fine.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195809	The rapporteur, who is not yet a minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195811	I don't expect to be. But that's a weird conclusion. After all, no one can know how the next Prime Minister or the next Prime Minister will again choose to organise his government, so that is just a claim by Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195830	There is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195834	Thank you. Well, I think that of course we can discuss this here in Parliament. Of course we can discuss whether the Ministry of Finance has been given too much power. What I have to say is that I am so glad that this question debate is really our calculation models, and that is where I think we have the problem. As it is all concentrated in the Ministry of Finance, it is based on the financial accounting models of the Ministry of Finance. That means, among other things, that something like social stakes etc. is considered to be expenditure, but not investment in people that we get back, also as money, in the longer term. That is what I think we need to discuss, and there I very much hope that the Social Democrats will be involved in discussing whether we have the right arithmetic models and whether we are really taking into account the things we also have to take into account, so that it is not only economic growth that we are working on in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195932	But what today's debate is all about is whether the Minister for Finance has been given too much power and too much influence. It is not a question of what tools the Minister of Finance is using, because it is a different debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195945	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509195946	No, but that's exactly the discussion. In other words, since everything is in the Ministry of Finance, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance is using the tools they have. And that is why we say "or I say on behalf of the Alternative" that it would be very sensible if the Resort Ministries were to have a little better opportunity and a little more responsibility to be involved in shaping the policy, so that it does not all end up in the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Finance is clearly using the tools they have at their disposal. After all, we need to be able to use the tools at their disposal by the Resort Ministries, and I think that the Social Democrats must agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200020	Hopefully, we agree that if we are to do some sensible political work on the economic side, we all need to work on the same models. Then we can always discuss which models are right or wrong, but one can't possibly have a Resort Ministry working according to one economic model and the Ministry of Finance doing it after another. At least it would be a little too creative for me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200048	Thank you, sir. Erik Christensen. There are no more brief remarks, so we are now leaving the platform to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200056	Thank you. After all, does the Prime Minister consider it appropriate that the Ministry of Finance should have as much influence as it does in all areas of policy? First of all, thank you for your statement, but in principle, the Prime Minister could just say yes and then go back down again, because otherwise he would not have arranged his government like that. With those words, it has been said that it is entirely up to the current Prime Minister to decide how to set up his government. As easily as it could in principle be for the government to answer, it is just as difficult to answer as a party, because it is not really something that comes to us here in the Danish Parliament at the moment one can say very simplisticly because it alone is up to the Prime Minister to decide what the resort distribution should be. And it is for the simple reason that we have already explained that we have divided power in Denmark into three, where the Ministry of Finance is part of the executive power with the Prime Minister at the head and where we are part of the legislative power. That is why it is not up to us to decide how and how our government has been organized. But, of course, it is also said that it is so important that we have a Ministry of Finance which can set the overall financial framework and the overall economic governance, so that we have a ministry that can assess whether there is a possibility that we can spend more money, so that we have a room for manoeuvre, or that we may need to tighten up the economy, whether we need to save money or whether a ministry can save some money, so that another ministry can spend some money. And it is quite healthy and sensible that we should have a ministry which is a stand-by for it, otherwise the economy will simply go away. So that's pretty good, actually. The debate is, of course, whether there is still room for policy development in the ministries, and I personally think that there is. I also think it is natural that there are budgetary frameworks to be observed and that they are, of course, laid down by the Ministry of Finance. But in addition, the ministries themselves can draw a line. Or more precisely: it is the ministers who can do it, not the ministries. Then I just think, as a general consideration, that if you think there is a problem with • as it emerged in the opening of the question debate • that you e.g. in the social field have some good ideas that might be profitable over a number of years or serve themselves back in, but that one cannot convince the Ministry of Finance that this is a good move, yes, it must be a sign that there are too weak politicians. In the end, it is the Folketing that decides. I myself am a tax rapporteur, and if I sit in the Treasury with a majority in the Danish Parliament, who says that we want to do this, and the Ministry of Finance says that we want to do it in a different direction, then it will be what politicians want if we stick to it. And it's quite healthy. Of course we listen to professional knowledge, but it is ultimately the politicians who decide. So if you think the Ministry of Finance has too much power, then it has to be partly the conclusion from the SF that the trade ministers must be too weak and that we rapporteurs who sit around must be too poor to hold onto the decisions that we want to have passed. On the whole, however, we in the Danish People's Party feel that it is positive that the Ministry of Finance governs the budget framework and that it is the ministries that govern policy development in the individual regions of the region. I also believe that the reason for this is to say that there is a reason why the Ministry of Finance has been given more power. A budget law has been adopted, which means that much more attention has been paid to the fact that each ministry, each government and every public institution has to comply with the budgetary framework that they are given. And that means that after the financial crisis you probably have to run things a little tighter so that it doesn't slip away. But it also makes you feel that there is much more financial control over things and that it is also the Ministry of Finance that is running things. If I have to say something in general, I really think there is another problem which is greater than the fact that the Ministry of Finance is aware of many things, and it is in that sense that policy development is taking place in the ministries and not in the Folketing much more fundamentally. I would like to see more going back to the Folketing and trying to work on policy development here, for example. as we have done also along with SF's rapporteur in the Tax Committee, where we have had a working group, where we went into depth with some things ourselves, went on study trips and examined a lot of things and in this way came up with some policy that we would have liked to have put into practice afterwards, of course in cooperation with the professionals, also in the ministries, so that you get their views on the matter. But I really think it would be just as important to have a question debate where we also discussed where policy development should take place in general, and not which ministry will have the greatest influence, because it is after all up to the Prime Minister to decide on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200537	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200540	Thank you. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær says all these things, which I agree with, and which I have also read out from both the proposal for adoption and from my own speech, namely that the Ministry of Finance must ensure budget compliance and be a stamina and ensure that the economy does not slip away and that it is managed. But that's not what this question is about. Sir. Dennis Flydtkjær says that it is out in the trade ministries that you have to develop policies etc. etc. But that's where we seem to look at it differently. Because I see a growing tendency towards concrete content in political proposals, for example. whether a primary school reform, the content of the rate pool, or whatever it may be, will be formulated fairly in detail in the Ministry of Finance before it comes out, and that is the development that we at least find problematic from our point of view. Now Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær that this has happened after the financial crisis, but it is not. A lot of books have been written about this and about the Ministry of Finance as an economic manager, and it is certainly something that has come out in the mid-1990s. Now I would like to say that in the old days it was probably also a Ministry of Finance which was too weak and that it has now moved in the other direction. It may not have become too strong, because it is not about whether it is too strong, and it is good that the Ministry of Finance is strong in the economic field. But we need, for example, that. a reform of primary school is designed in a specialised ministry where there are experts and officials who have such an understanding in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200720	I agree that this is not just something that has come after the financial crisis. My point was, in fact, that there has probably been more focus on this because of the budget law, and that in the institutions and many other public bodies there is also a feeling that there has been more focus on it and that there has been tight reins on the part of the Ministry of Finance, because we have been given a budget law. However, it is true that this has been a discussion for many decades, and it is really also a good picture that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen gives when she says that at some times you may have had too loose a management by the Ministry of Finance and that there may be some who think you have too tight a management. It shows very well that it is precisely up to the government in office and the Prime Minister who is in office at all times to arrange how you want to have your resort distribution and how much you think the individual ministries should govern, and we now have a Prime Minister who thinks that economic governance is important and that we are creating growth. After all, as the Prime Minister said, growth is the basis for prosperity, and I agree with that. But that is not something we can interfere with as Parliament. So I do not know whether one imagines that we should make a decision that said that the Ministry of Finance should manage less or that there should be a looser budgetary management, so that they can go a little over their limits, or how should we adopt it? It is not just our decision-making powers here in the Folketing, but it is something that the executive power stands for, and that is why I think it is a little difficult. You can take the debate, but it is just difficult to conclude quite a lot from such a debate as today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200834	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200835	It's not hard. We can have a debate on this, and if the rapporteur had listened to me when I read out the proposal for adoption, he would have just heard that we are calling for the development of professional and factual content to take place in the specialist ministries. And that is such an artificial contradiction that the rapporteur is putting forward. Because this is not about relaxing the reins in relation to budget compliance or the fact that the economy is under control, but it is about the very specific subject-specific content of political action, and, as both former ministers and department heads have warned against, the quality of the legislation that comes out and affects people's lives and their everyday lives may ultimately be compromised.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509200928	I fully agree that it should be in the ministries, you have this policy development and where you sit and come up with a lot of good ideas and where you have the experts, but I also have the impression that this is very much the case today. Then, of course, it may be that the government has arranged it so that there may be tougher economic governance now than there have been under previous governments, but if that is the line that has been laid, then you have to get to the Prime Minister. After all, I am working mostly with the tax area, and I really think that there is a lot of policy development going on in the Ministry of Taxation and that it is not so much that comes from the Ministry of Finance, but when there are some financial consequences about what you are doing, it is clear that you have to coordinate it with the Ministry of Finance. That is their role, they have to gather the threads, and I hear that the SF also says they agree with that. But my own experience with the Treasury is not, I think, that there is some over-management on the part of the Ministry of Finance. I actually think we have all right and reasonable reins to make some policy in many areas of the Treasury. Of course, the Ministry of Finance is in it, but I guess it's only natural.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201024	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær. There are no more brief comments, and I am pleased to welcome Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201033	Thank you for that, President, and of course, first of all I would like to thank the authors for asking today about the influence of the Ministry of Finance on the other policy areas. I cannot help but smile a little at the fact that it is only now, more than three years after the SF left the government offices, that it is possible to put into words what was apparently the case with the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Bjarne Corydon. I'm sorry, but I think that's a little funny. Secondly, of course, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for a thorough lesson in political science in explaining the constitutional framework of the ministerial system. I shall endeavour to make my input into the debate quite brief, partly because the key elements of the debate have already been presented brilliantly by the Prime Minister and partly because I believe that the question is quite straightforward. Each minister, as Head of Administration of his Ministry, has an independent competence and responsibility for his area of responsibility. This applies to the Minister for Finance, and that applies to the other ministers. There is no minister who is superior to the other ministers, not even the Prime Minister. Nobody's more equal than anyone else. In relation to the Ministry of Finance's area, which is the economic area, it is obviously a resort which requires the Minister's coordination with the other ministers in the collective. Things we come up with in here have to do with the cost of money, and this is the case across the responsibilities, which is why it is both meaningful and basically a very good idea for the Minister of Finance to be involved in the coordination, since it is the Minister of Finance who sits on the money box, as the Prime Minister has explained. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201234	You're welcome, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, but there is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201239	I think it's got to be because sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has not yet tried to be a minister, that he can give me this lesson on equality between ministers without drawing on the smile tape, and now, after all, a small smile came. Because, as we all know, there is also a difference between what is written on paper, what the formal relationship is and what the reality is. I have tried to make it clear that this debate on the role of the Treasury has no colour. It is not blue and red, because it is a development that has been over many years. So I am not trying to shoot any head of government in the shoes, other than to say that this is a development that we have been able to see at least since the mid-1990s, and that I am actually just trying to raise the question whether it is the most appropriate way to do it, that is to say that we are planning very large projects, for example. on primary school, other areas of education, in the green field, in the Ministry of Finance rather than in a trade ministry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201346	It is simply not my experience that this is the way it is done under the present government. Having said that, I have to remind you and apologize that it is now going to be such a little social science that we also have a division of power here in the kingdom. We have a legislative power which is here, an executive which is there and a judiciary which is out there, and I would like to hold on to that, and that means that when you sit in government offices, it is up to the government, with the Prime Minister in the lead, to find out how to organise itself most appropriately. When or if Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen becomes Prime Minister one day, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen can put together the form of work in the manner she considers appropriate. At the moment, however, it is the current Prime Minister who is setting it up. It is at all times, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201439	I have tried many times to express my respect for the government and the head of government being able to adapt as they please, and I can still think that it is fair enough to debate it when it affects our working conditions and it also affects the legislation that ultimately affects citizens. With all due respect for the division of power, I must also say that the rapporteur himself belongs to a party that wants to discuss it over and over again, for example. the areas of justice in relation to punishment and everything else, and in this way it overlaps with each other once in a while, where we have some discussions that go into the other areas of power, so to speak, and we must, of course, be careful that we do not exceed it. However, I do not believe that anyone can be free from having any views on how this should be done, and that is actually just what was the debate today: is it going to be the best way? The rapporteur then understands that it should not be in any other way than it is today in relation to the division of labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201536	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201537	I am not going to interfere with the way in which later governments in the distant future will behave. I just respect the fact that it is the current Prime Minister who is organising the work of his government, and I think that is fine, and I also think it is good to have this debate. It is good to have a discussion and when I express a different opinion from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, it is just because I disagree. I guess that's what this debate is all about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201610	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Let's get on with it. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten, who now has the right to present his rapporteur's speech from the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509201623	Thank you, President, and thank you to the SF for having called today's debate. We have seen a growing concentration of power in the Ministry of Finance in recent years, and this means today that we see more often than before how the Ministry directs and dominates the political work of successive governments. It can be said that the Ministry of Finance often acts as a sort of controller of the other ministries, and they sit for example. In the course of negotiations. This is partly due to the financial management that comes from the Budget Act, which we in the Group of the European People's Party think is wrong, too tight and puts some unnecessary frameworks on, for example. the economy of the municipalities, but this is also due to a change in culture. We are dealing here with a problem, because it creates a homogeneous approach to the development of political action, etc., and it creates such a kind of economic unity culture that limits other possible perspectives and approaches. It has previously been read out what the former Minister for Social Affairs, who had four social ministers while sitting, said, namely that there is a problem here, and among other things. In the course of the negotiations, there was simply one person from the Ministry of Finance who was following the negotiations and reporting back and forth. He was also involved when we were sitting in the relatively confidential room with the minister and had to find a runway. We never did that without the Ministry of Finance being involved. It has been deeply problematic that an assistant or specialist consultant from the Ministry of Finance has in fact been sitting and defining what was a good social action or good integration efforts over with us. ▪ This is what Jesper Zwisler has said, and a similar criticism came from the then Minister for Culture Bertel Haarder, who also believes that the Ministry of Finance is interfering in a lot. He writes in Kristeligt Dagblad: "It has become harder to be a minister, and one of the reasons is that the Ministry of Finance today interferes in the detail of how each ministry spends money. ▪ That's what he said in October to Kristeligt Dagblad. We also have other examples of this. We are currently having a major debate on SKAT. We have a Ministry of Finance which in recent years has seen SKAT as an expense. This has meant that they simply have not thought about spending and revenue together, as one would do if one were an economic unit in a municipality. There you would look at what expenses you had for employees, and then you would look at how much money these employees were scratching in. There is no doubt that the way in which the Ministry of Finance has acted and the way in which a relatively small, powerful group of officials has been able to sit and dominate have been decisive in how also changing ministers have chosen to deal with, or so to speak not to deal with, SKAT in relation to the disastrous crisis that we see. It is also a matter in which the Prime Minister was not Prime Minister at the time, but the Prime Minister was the Minister of the Interior and led the structural reform, which also resulted in the scandal that we see today in the SKAT. We have now also been discussing for a long time how the Treasury calculator is really where it becomes most seriously defining what is possible and not possible. That is, for example, the case. in relation to the elasticity or calculation underlying a reduction in the top tax. The calculator used is based on a number of methods of calculation, which have been very seriously questioned by, among others: The economists of the Folketing. These are top-of-the-line tax calculations, which have also been used to calculate elasticity or how much money would come home to the Treasury if the registration tax on luxury cars were to be reduced. So you use some very problematic economic assumptions about how much money will come in if you lower the top tax, but you use God help me also the calculation methods when you have to find out what the calculation looks like when you choose to lower the registration fee on luxury cars. When you operate on such an uncertain financial basis and that money doesn't end up in the box, it means you have a hole in the box. And who's gonna pay? If we know the blue parties right, it is, as usual, the sick, the unemployed, the disabled and those who have the least. This is an irresponsible economic policy. It can be said that much of what we are discussing here is really about the executive. What we could do more among the parties of the Folketing was to create a greater degree of counterpower. The most obvious solution, when we are talking about the Ministry of Finance and the methods of calculation, is, after all, here in the Folketing to create an economic secretariat with a completely different pondus. We have some financial consultants who have made some really good reports and have collected existing knowledge about, for example. the lack of evidence that the labour market and supply reforms that have led to deterioration, for example: For the benefit recipients, should have the effect they said. There is no evidence to suggest that this is the case, and that is why the reforms are based on a thin basis. It is the same with the reforms of the top tax that have been. They are also based on a thin basis. It is also something in which the economists of the Folketing have played a part, namely by gathering documentation and research in order to challenge the accounting machine of the Ministry of Finance, which is based on a very thin basis. That is certainly something we can do much more about. This is actually something that we can do here, because it is something that will be subject to legislative power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202226	Thank you. I would remind you that it is outside the rules of the present Rules of Procedure to summon the higher powers, whether it be God or Allah just for another time. I'll keep that in mind). There are no brief remarks to Mr. Rune Lund. Thanks for the presentation. Welcome to Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202246	Thank you. Of course we can discuss this. That is what we are in the process of doing, but that does not mean that we need to agree. It is sometimes rather annoying that the money should fit not only privately but also politically in relation to the state's finances. I think we would all like a reality where we could just order out of all sorts of lovely things without thinking that someone, if not oneself, should also finance it. And even if it sometimes sounds as if the cozy utopia is reality, it is an illusion, because in the real world, in other words, where the responsibility lies, the money has to fit the end. When we look at other people's money as we do, it is, of course, a tighter condition that we take good care of them. Therefore, there is nothing strange about the fact that the Ministry of Finance is a central ministry. I would be concerned if the Minister for Finance were not concerned about the cost of various initiatives in the various other ministries. And then it's actually very good to have a house where we know that you care about it by regular methods. Thank you to the Prime Minister for the statement on how the ministerial system is built under the Constitution. I think it is very healthy for all of us at times to put those principles in place. In relation to the concern that the Ministry of Finance had to interfere too much in the various ministries, there is actually just to say that it is and must be up to the individual minister to set his back and insist on being the boss of his own house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202442	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202447	I am glad that Mrs Christina Egelund said that we can, of course, debate this, and that is exactly what we are doing. That is why I think it is a little too bad that all kinds of artificial contradictions are brought about, because this debate is not about "there," I can at least speak on behalf of the SF, that there should be no governance on the part of the Ministry of Finance and that it is not the role of the Ministry of Finance to ensure that the budgets are respected. So I actually think it is rather inconvenient to turn this into a debate that there are some who want to ensure that the economy is in order and others who do not want to. Because that's not what this debate is about. It is about asking whether we have reached the point where elementary school proposals are formulated in the Ministry of Finance and where environmental policy is formulated in the Ministry of Finance. Of course, in a government collective you have to decide that you want to prioritise them and those things, for example. an educational initiative, or whatever it may be, a children's initiative, and then you find the money, or you don't find the money, whatever you decide to do. But then it has to be in the Ministry of Trade, they say: this is where we have the expertise, this is where we have the professionals for it, and that's why we're doing this. In the Ministry of Finance, you keep an eye out for the money to fit. That is what this debate is about, and not about some being responsible and some being irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202617	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202618	The questioner will then have to excuse me very much, but then I will be a little confused about what we are actually debating if it is not about the role of the Ministry of Finance in a government in relation to the proposals that a government now has to make, of course, also to keep an eye on the fact that the money fits. Of course it is also the case, as the questioner then describes afterwards, that various professional input into political proposals from, for example. The Ministry of Culture or other ministries come from the Ministry concerned. Then it was just that, at the end of my speech, I pointed out that at the end of the day it is really about the person who is the minister of a ministry and thus the political boss of that house, even as well as having to put himself on the stage as a political boss and then be.It is basically about whether you are a strong politician or not. And I don't really think that's different, no matter who sits at the top of a government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202715	I partly agree with that, but there are also some structures that make it difficult to get cases into the government's coordination committee or economic committee at all, because there are simply some stopping blocks. But that's another talk. Let me give you a concrete example if the rapporteur does not understand what I am talking about. When we negotiate the bet pool, we know where the money comes from. There may be disagreement about how they have been found, but we know where they come from. Then you can have different wishes about what the pool funds are to be spent on. It makes no sense for such things to be regulated in detail from a Ministry of Finance, which does not necessarily have any social professional insights at all. Does the rapporteur agree with that? The example is precisely that we know where the money comes from and we know how much money there is: then it should go directly into the ministries and be negotiated there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202809	It is simply not a reality that I recognize. But now my party has, it might be said, a little short historical experience to show when it comes to government. Well, I think I just want to make the point that I have said a few times: basically, in all constellations, I think you want to exert as much influence as you can, the individual politician. I think that is why each of us is here with the positions and objectives that we now have. We want to have as much influence as possible. And it doesn't really matter if you're a minister or rapporteur or anything else or president of the bike club... that you exercise the influence that you can now from the platform you have. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. It's kind of just an expression of ambition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202856	We will take another brief comment and this time from Mr Seligman. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509202859	The rapporteur said that it was a question of the money being taken care of. In fact, it is also here that the discussion is relevant, because a significant part of this discussion is of course about the accounting machine of the Ministry of Finance. When we saw, for example... If the whole discussion about whether the top tax should be lowered or not is of course a problem, the Ministry of Finance has a calculator, which says that many more will work and many more will work longer • much more than there is evidence in the research. This means that you have a calculator which is based on an incredibly uncertain basis. And if that really means that people don't work as much longer as the Treasury calculator thinks, there will ultimately be a hole in the box, and then the money doesn't fit, and who will pay? So this is both a question of there being a calculator that is miscalculating or at least raining on a very problematic basis, but it is also a question of how we should be able to have a discussion about it. It is also about what we can do here in the legislative power. So the rapporteur does not recognise that if you have a calculator that is calculated on a very uncertain basis, then it ends up with a hole in the box and the money does not fit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203012	Well, with all due respect, I think this debate is going to be a little weird. The starting point was that we should discuss the power of the Ministry of Finance or influence on resorts other than their own. Now, all of a sudden, it's not so much about their influence, it's about their miscalculation. I have no problem with the accounting methods of the Ministry of Finance. Rune Lund has, and others may have. I think it is very good, also for a sober and objective debate on economic policy, that we agree that two plus two is four.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203044	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203045	However, if you have a calculator that says that if you lower the top tax, there will be a great many more hours on the labour market, and the participation effect and the hourly effect will increase • there are many more people who will work, and those who work will work more, and that is not the case in the real world, it will end up with a lack of money in the box, and that is deeply problematic. Then it is important that when we talk about the influence of the Ministry of Finance, we are dealing here with a calculator which is very defining for negotiations that are going on, for example. in the context of financial law negotiations. That is why this discussion is of course absolutely central, even when the economists of the Danish Parliament in a report they made for approx. One year ago, just before the summer break, writes: The conclusion is that there are no recent empirical studies supporting calculations of expected work supply effects by the Ministry of Finance. The calculators that are are not working, but it still has a great power. That is a fundamental problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203139	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203140	If there is any doubt about the effect of abolishing the top tax, then I can only call for us to put it to the test.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203150	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203156	Thank you. There was a comment from Mr. Rune Lund, whom I don't think the TV people could hear: Rune Lund added: Well, then the money doesn't fit. That is really the problem here. The reason why the alternative seems so problematic that the Ministry of Finance has such great power is, after all, because of the measures that are being taken in other resort ministries. Let's take the Department of Social Affairs. If efforts are being made for children, who we know have a long-term effect, so that children grow up, get an education, then we know that the fact that they are being educated makes them more likely to get into employment and that there is less risk of them becoming criminals and so on. So it has a long-term positive effect. The Ministry of Finance cannot take this into account because it does not attribute their calculation models. That is why, in my optics, there is a problem with the Ministry of Finance being allowed to define so much of our policy, because it all ends up being about whether we have the money for it. I would like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203314	However, it is not the case that in other ministries, the questioner now refers to the Ministry of Social Affairs, there are different methods of calculation than in the Ministry of Finance. We can easily discuss this, and I think it is a matter for another debate, about the methods of calculation of the Treasury, but it is not the case that the Ministry of Social Affairs is calculated in a completely different way from that of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203340	There is one more brief comment. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203345	Thank you. The problem is that this is going to happen in the Ministry of Finance, and it is the Ministry of Finance who says in advance that this cannot be done because it says their arithmetic models. What makes us have this problem in and with the Ministry of Finance gets this very central power is that we simply don't really have the ability to make policy, because it's all about whether the number on the bottom line fits. I fully agree with the rapporteur that there should be black figures on the bottom line. But the problem is that we can only count on one method, so it is the short term, now and here we can count on; we cannot count on it in the long term. That is the problem, of course, because when the Ministry of Finance has the keys in its hands in all areas, we cannot think otherwise at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203434	Here you go, Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203436	I believe that what the questioner is challenging is really a question of political priority rather than a question of one or the other or the third. I have to say that I am comfortable with the fact that a ministry, a minister who gets an idea for something he wants to implement, can calculate what it costs. I think we have a responsibility for this to the Danes who go to work, pay taxes and finance all our good ideas. I don't really see what the alternative to getting things figured out is to spend a lot of money, and then hope the money fits?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203513	Thank you. No one else has any comments. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509203525	Thank you for the floor. Thanks to the SF for calling this debate. There should be no doubt that the alternative wants sustainability on all three bottom lines, both economic, social and environmental. In Denmark, after all, the Ministry of Finance is primarily responsible for the economic bottom line, and that is not a problem to that extent. However, the way in which the Ministry of Finance has secured its influence and the way in which the power of the Ministry of Finance has developed, in our optics, causes two major problems. The narrow economic thinking in the Ministry of Finance means that long-term investment is not being made in people and the environment, and, as we see it, the Ministry of Finance has also begun to dictate how priority should be given to both the social and the environmental bottom line. Overall, it can be said that there is too little investment in people and the environment. It is clear that the task of the Ministry of Finance is to ensure that there is a balance on the economic bottom line, and this is ensured by means of the models that we know, with names such as the legal model, ADAM etc. There is no doubt that economic models can be fine, because we need to, like trying to predict what will happen if we do so and so, but the models we currently have are based on assumptions which, even within economic logic, are very simplistic. It is simply assumed that the citizens behave as perfect machines that can predict everything and thus allow the models in reality only to invest in material things, but not in people. You invest in bricks and motorways, but not in the vulnerable and in education. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry of Finance has set up a working group to look at the assumption that people are not perfect machines. That is a good thing, but the problem with the working group that has been set up is that it barely scratches the surface of the problems that exist in the economic calculation models. It will not look at the negative effects of poverty; it will not look at the positive effects of education; it will not look at the consequences of pollution destroying our climate and the environment. So until we have a proper reckoning with the arithmetic models, the logic of the Ministry of Finance helps us invest too much in bricks and too little in people, that we invest too much in motorways and too little in the environment, and that we invest too much in the present and too little in the future. After all, the logic of the Ministry of Finance also dictates priority on the social and environmental bottom line. The economic thinking that prevails in the Ministry of Finance has been called both neoliberal and neoclassical, or the word 'competition state' has been used. But no matter what you call it, it is central that it is based on the fact that people are selfish and focus only on their own consumption. This forgot that people are moral and social beings who care about others and want to work. The problem is that if you think only of people as selfish and self-absorbed, as the Ministry of Finance and through the arithmetic models, then the logical answer is the competitive state. We do not trust the unemployed to want to work. It is ensured by means of financial incentives and by means of meaningless activation processes and meaningless application requirements to say that it must be as intolerable as possible to be available. And because we do not trust that these are real refugees, we use a very, very harsh rhetoric and introduce low benefits instead of actually doing the opposite: to say that once they have been granted refugee status, we must, of course, welcome them. And because you do not trust that public servants want to do their job as well as possible, you choose to control them and thus work on welfare with documentation. Similarly, the logic of the Ministry of Finance has also begun to dictate environmental policy, so that the economic bottom line is placed above the environmental bottom line, and it is at the expense of the disappearance of the PSP. Here the principle of the polluter having to pay the most for the green conversion was abolished. At that cost, an agreement has been reached on electric cars which have completely stalled the electricity distribution system and, at that cost, a new agreement has also been reached on the North Sea, which has decided to pull even more oil out of the underground, although we know that 80%. In fact, the world's fossil reserves must remain in the ground if we are to remain within the 2-degree objective to which Denmark has committed itself in the Paris Agreement. It is, in fact, also with the prospect of a highly questionable revenue based on dubious predictions about oil prices. In the alternative, we would like to have a much broader approach to the economy and society, which is why we say that we need to think in three bottom lines and not one. And those who work with the economic bottom line must stop seeing the social bottom line and the environmental bottom line as opponents and instead start seeing them as fellow players. That is why we are saying that the Ministry of Finance should not go into the territory of other ministries. Rather, it is the areas and bottom lines of the other ministries that need to be considered in the Ministry of Finance, and in this way we believe that we can take an important step towards a more empathetic society, a more forward-looking society, and that we move from being a competitive state to becoming a balance society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509204119	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. There are no comments. Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509204127	Fortunately, in Denmark we have chosen to have democracy. Democracy is not a form of government to be chosen because it is effective. It is a form of government that we have chosen because we think it is the right thing to do and also because we think it is the best way to make decisions, because if many have helped to make a decision, it will be better and more legitimate, it will be more accepted in the society in which it is to apply. When more people can have a word introduced, they can share in a debate, they can turn around more things, and they simply make better decisions. That is why it is an important debate that SF is raising today: if the power, the decisions have been too centralised with a few, with the disadvantage that a great many feel can In this context I would urge everyone to try to hear the radio programme on the Danish Radio's P1 called Slotsholmen. There was a debate on this subject, where my colleague Mr. Martin Lidegaard and a former head of department in what was then the Ministry of Integration and Social Affairs were discussing this subject. Sir. Martin Lidegaard could tell that when he, as climate minister, wanted to call climate policy an investment, he was directed by the Ministry of Finance three times to a cost. The former head of department of the Ministry of Social Affairs could tell that not only did the Ministry of Finance manage the economy of the projects initiated by the Ministry of Integration and Social Affairs, but they also wanted to manage which projects it was. In this way the policy development of integration policy had been transferred to the Ministry of Finance, he felt. In the Radical Left, we think it is extremely important that the economy is under control, and therefore there must be a strong Ministry of Finance. We ourselves also helped to ensure this both in the 1990s and in the last period of government, because revenue and expenditure have to match. But we think there is a tendency for the Ministry of Finance to interfere not only in the amount and compliance with the amount, but also in the content, that is, what the amount should be. That is why we think it is an important debate which will then start here and, I believe, will continue in society and also with us if we are to participate again in a government: how do we ensure that decisions are decentralised so that citizens and businesses have greater access to influence on what is going on and heard? We also think that this is a liberal agenda, which is why we are rather saddened that the government is not taking this discussion more well. But it's gonna run anyway. Of course, we support the proposal for adoption that we are helping to make, and I hope that more people in society will be involved in discussing this important issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509204444	Thank you to the rapporteur. As the Conservative rapporteur is not present, we now move on to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509204456	Thank you for that, and thank you for the debate, which can at least be summed up in the fact that there is a fairly broad understanding of the rule of the Constitution that it is the prerogative of the Prime Minister in office at all times to determine the number of ministers and to determine the tasks for each minister. I'm glad about that. I'm happy about that. Then I have listened with interest to some of the examples that have been used here today, all of which have the same thing in common that they originate from a previous government. I'm not going to judge that. So there must have been real people behind of flesh and blood: a finance minister behind of flesh and blood, a climate minister behind of flesh and blood, a minister of education behind of flesh and blood. And if you've left the government and feel like you haven't had enough punches, well, that's what you're feeling. I have to say, and that is also an answer to Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær, that if I did not just say yes to the question whether I consider it appropriate that the Ministry of Finance should have as much influence as it has on all political areas, it is because I think that a yes would leave the impression that I very much agreed with an premise that this is the case. And that's not the picture I have myself after having been trade minister of yes, what 7 years, finance minister for a few years and prime minister for a period of time. I don't even recognize the picture that concrete school policy, climate policy, and what else has been mentioned is something that is designed by young executives over at the Ministry of Finance. It's a picture I don't recognize. I also think that, if I may use the term, we, as politicians, make us a little too small when we have such a debate here about some ministries having too much influence. Well, we're politicians. The government consists of ministers, politicians, and the Folketing consists of people, politicians. It is not the systems that have the power. It is the politicians who have the power. It is my responsibility as Prime Minister to lead a government that puts government policy through. For that I have a number of ministers who each have a resort, and I have then set up a setup on which I should not go into detail, but which should ensure that there is cross-cutting coordination. That is my responsibility; it is the responsibility of the government. And if you think we're living it wrong, you can drop us off. It also turns out, when you listen to the debate, that it is really so much about some other things, for example. how we're gonna do the math. Mrs Josephine Fock said that quite directly in reality, and that is a fair enough discussion and one can take it. That's just not what the question is about... that's not what the question is about. The question is whether the Ministry of Finance has too much and decisive influence. I would certainly be somewhat concerned as Prime Minister if everything were to be completely freed. Then you could sit where you spend the money and count it a little to the other side by saying: it may look like an expense, but they will probably come back in; and then you could sit where you drive the state's income in, for example. in the Treasury, and make some exciting tax reforms, because you expected some huge dynamic effects; and then you could quickly spend too much money in one place and demand too few in the other place. So it should necessarily be the case that there is uniformity in the way one weighs things off. That's fair enough, sir. Rune Lund, that you can discuss how you weigh off. It is, by the way, a pervasive discussion, and it is also a discussion that I do not have to go into too much detail about what we, by nature, are also leading in the government, as I think other governments have done over time, i.e. what exactly it is for legal models and other things we use. This is a fair enough discussion. But we cannot have a discussion that will lead in the direction of each man his weight. I can't do that. So I have to say that I am extremely satisfied with the majority that has manifested here today and is prepared to support the proposal for adoption which Mr. Erik Christensen read out on behalf of parties that make up a majority. And with that I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509204918	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509204922	Thank you. There have been some examples today from previous ministers. Well, it's not just from the previous government, but it's also Mr. Cole. Bertel Haarder, who is the longest-seated minister, and who probably also has some experience with it. I do not see the debate that has taken place today, at least on the part of certain parties, as a criticism. I would just like to stress that once again by the current government or Prime Minister, because it is simply a development that has taken place, and it is not a criticism of the officials who fulfil the function that some have assigned them to, in the Ministry of Finance. Because it is quite true that it is not a power that has been taken, but that it is a power that has been given to the Ministry of Finance. And that is a political priority. After all, the Prime Minister is quite right that it is a choice. It's a political choice. It sounds to the Prime Minister as if he would like some concrete examples. Practical examples are, of course, that reform of primary schools, green ideas and now, most recently, a major issue in the field of education is starting in the Ministry of Finance. Does the Prime Minister himself think it makes sense, rather than being drafted in a trade ministry?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205043	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205045	Well, I don't even recognize that picture that initiatives are just being designed in the Ministry of Finance. I am so pleased that this is not a criticism of anyone, but, on the other hand, I do not understand it. 'Cause somebody's gotta be criticized, right? Because if you think it should be said that there are employees from the Ministry of Finance sitting with you, for example. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Well, it can't just be nothing. And I am ultimately responsible for the setup we have in the government and how we draw on the central administration. For me, it seems very, very reasonable that, when we have negotiations concerning government priorities and whether the economic space available is filled out or not filled out, we have ensured that we have an opportunity to keep track of how the pieces are settled. Is it that the Ministry of Finance acquires competence, or is it that we have set things up in a way in which we have an opportunity to create cross-cutting coordination? In the end, it's my responsibility. So it cannot end in that you are not satisfied with things as they happen, but then will not criticise anyone. It's somehow a nullity. Without going into the details of how my government works, I can say with certainty that it does not work in such a way that proposals, which are, like in some core policy areas, are invented in the Ministry of Finance. That's not how we work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205213	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205214	In my comments I have tried to show as I and SF see it • the development that has been going through at least a few decades. It is a system that has survived from government to government, regardless of whether it has been red or blue. That is why I said that it was not a specific criticism directed at the current Prime Minister, because that is something we have seen being handed down from government to government. But it is clearly a call to the Prime Minister to take action if the Prime Minister thinks it is a problem. And then I understand the PM doesn't think so. So that's where we just don't get an agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205258	Thank you. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205259	I think that was an excellent conclusion. Because it is clear that if I think some things should be changed in the way the government works, I would of course do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205309	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205311	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister doesn't think the calculation model has anything to do with this discussion. The reason I think so is that when the negotiations, for example, are completed. In addition, there will be an increase in the number of jobs created and the number of jobs created and the number of jobs created and the number of jobs created. from the individual resort ministries, simply because the Ministry of Finance's math models are being put down over this we don't call it investment in people, we call it spending if we do some things. That is why I simply do not agree with the Prime Minister that it does not have a consequence when the Ministry of Finance is thus at the centre. Of course, I also fully recognise the Prime Minister's right to determine what the distribution is and which ministries do what. But I think it is an important discussion to have what role the Ministry of Finance has, because they help to influence the negotiations that are taking place. So I don't really know if it's just a comment to the Prime Minister, but I'd like to hear his reflection on what I'm saying anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205425	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205426	It is like a picture that, if we did not have a Finance Minister and it was the ministers of the Council who, without any coordination, negotiated their own areas without it being anchored in mandates from the government's Economic Committee or in cross-cutting discussions in the government or otherwise, we would have a completely different set of results, but that is not true. After all, for all the ministers who sit are in the same government and the government is pursuing one policy, and the government has also recognised what methods of calculation we are counting on. That is why I say that we can have a discussion on this, and I am sure that we can have a technical discussion on this, and it is also running at all times. I also believe that all governments at all times on the inner lines have a discussion about it, that is, how to get new evidence and new empire inserted. Without revealing too much secrets, I believe that at all times it cringes the fingers of people who are politically responsible in order to make work affordable. So if you could calculate in a way where the money went further, it would be a nice thing, and if you could calculate in a way where tax cuts cost nothing, it would be a nice thing. So there must be room for that discussion. But it can never lead there that a government like to say: we weigh things off on different weights, depending on whether we weigh one or the other or the third ministry. There the government will have to make collective confession to a method. And that's why it's gonna be a big debate to discuss this, that is to say the Ministry of Finance, and then you have to discuss something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205600	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205601	I nevertheless find it interesting to discuss it, also because some of the previous rapporteurs also referred to statements by ministers who, after all, have been sitting close to them. Then the Prime Minister replicated it in a previous government. I have noticed myself that some of the negotiations to which the alternative has been invited have started in the Ministry of Finance, and at least in some areas where I have been informed that it is new that it will start there. For example: Can I mention that the police settlement started in the Ministry of Finance, which one can have one's thoughts about how it starts in the Ministry of Finance? One is that a framework is given to a Resort Ministry, but it is notable that it is the Ministry of Finance that has to manage the discussions on a police settlement, and not the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205655	If it starts with the Finance Minister at the end of the table, it is because the government has decided that it will start with the Finance Minister at the end of the table. What I might be reacting a little bit is the thing about using the Ministry, so it starts at the Ministry of Finance. There are people behind it. My government consists of a Minister of Finance, a Minister of Justice, etc. etc. I am responsible for this, it is my prerogative, and I am glad that it is recognised here today that we are distributing the resort areas among these ministers, just as I am also responsible for ensuring that we have the negotiating set-up that we now find beneficial in ensuring the government's cross-cutting priorities. One may disagree with that or agree with it, but one cannot, as it were, put it in a drawer that says that here there is a ministry, that is, some officials who have had too much systemic influence. It's just like what I don't recognize.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205746	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rune Lund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205747	Today's debate is, of course, about the appropriateness of the fact that the Ministry of Finance has such a strong influence on all areas of the region as the Ministry of Finance has, and the Ministry of Finance has done so largely by virtue of the calculator in the Ministry of Finance. And when there have been so many deteriorations or reforms in recent years, as for example. It has been built on the fact that if there is a greater difference between what you get by being in work and what you get by not being in work, there will be more people going to work, and when you can see that the assumption is actually no proof of which the economists of the Folketing, for example. in a report from January, where they note that it is difficult to say whether exactly the calculated effects of recent tax reforms and reforms in the field of transfers will occur in practice, then we have a problem when we have some calculation methods which mean so much but which are based on an extremely thin basis. Does the Prime Minister not agree that it is important that if we have some calculation methods that are of great importance, then they should not be based on a very thin basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205853	Thank you. Then it's the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509205855	So are they supposed to be resting on a handful of economists employed by the Folketing, or what? In other words, I do not at all recognise that our economic models should be based on an incomplete basis. It is clear that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten has a completely different political point of departure from my point of view, and will of course be eager to look around to find some form of support for a view which goes against the view of the government and, incidentally, also the previous government, namely that procurement reforms have an effect on full respect for it. But that doesn't alter my previous answers. This government is in line with the legislation adopted by the Danish Parliament with budget law and other things, which in itself means that the need for coordination is greater than if you did not have budget law and other things. And, of course, this government is also on the goal that the legal models and other things underlying the government's work are the ones we use. You can't get away from that by saying, shouldn't we just decide that we're doing another organizational setup, so that we could ignore these models around the various ministries? Then you can discuss the models fairly enough, but you can't ignore them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210007	Thank you. Sir. Rune Lund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210008	I think it is a problem that we have some arithmetic models which, when we examine the latest research, we can see rests on a paper thin basis. We have also seen it in other areas. In the context of the unemployment benefit reform, which meant a shortening of the benefit period, it turned out that the Ministry of Finance overestimated the so-called motivational effect. The Ministry had expected that between 2 000 and 4 000 per year would go out of the benefit system, and we saw that it would then be well over 30,000, and we see that thousands of people are still going out of the benefit system every year. So a reform has been carried out based on completely wrong assumptions, and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance's calculator play a very central role here. Isn't that a problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210048	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210049	I'd like to ask, "So what? In other words, the debate that has taken place here today is about whether the Ministry of Finance has too much to play in terms of cross-cutting coordination within the government. That is what the debate is about. My answer is clear: I do not agree with the premise. So a picture is drawn of a ministry that sits and goes down in the detail of all things, which I do not recognize. The Minister of Finance has a cross-cutting task, like a number of other ministers, I have also mentioned the Minister of Justice. There is no question here of each minister being free to interpret matters freely in accordance with the constitution or otherwise; there is a minister being assigned a task which gives some cross-cutting influence, and that must be the case. Then Mr. Rune Lund to raise another debate about whether the methods we then use are fair, and that is fair enough, but it is just another debate that will ultimately have to be conducted, among other things. in professional circles. And you can see that the government itself has embraced some of it. It can be seen from the government base that work has been started to ensure quality of some of the methods of calculation we use.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210205	Thank you. Then it's mr. René Gade
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210217	When I listen to the Prime Minister's explanation, I think, if I am going to try to pick it up and put myself in his place and say yes to the individual minister we are talking about here, it is not necessarily the ministries, but the ministers. If today the Minister for Finance is going to define the content of the individual resort areas to a disproportionate degree, and if individual ministers in the resort areas think so, then there may well be a problem. That is what I hear about the debate, among other things. It is about the fact that there are finance ministers who are going to define the content and not just the framework that I think is the right thing to do. Can the Prime Minister see that there could be a problem with the Minister of Finance defining the content of the individual resort areas too much, regardless of whether it is too violent today or whether the level is sensible today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210303	Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210305	No, I do not see that, because if there were ministers in my government who felt that the conditions for meeting the ministerial responsibilities they have the privilege of being granted were too narrow, they would say no. Well, that's how it works. Once again, I think that this debate among politicians is a debate which bears witness to the fact that we are making ourselves too small in relation to whom we are dealing with some systems. The decisions taken in the course of negotiations, what the setup is, who coordinates, where you come in, where you end, what debate has to wait for someone else, to see how to dispose of the room and other things, are, after all, political decisions taken by ministers at the moment in my government, earlier in other governments and after my time in some new governments. Making it a systemic discussion that there should be some officials in a particular ministry who have had too much influence is, in fact, just what I am contesting a little. I think it's shooting next door. I would like to admit that I am the prime minister of a government that attaches immense importance to the fact that we have a healthy public economy, that we take care of money, that revenue and expenditure are matched by each other, that there is recognizability in the way we conduct policy, that we have no values in one ministry and some quite others in another, that we do not pursue one goal in one ministry and some quite others in another ministry. I would like to acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210425	Thank you. Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210427	I was actually trying to fully acknowledge the premise that the Prime Minister has just made when we, as politicians, have to stand up and raise our backs and then take responsibility for us. I just think that for me, as rapporteur in the alternative, there is a certain limit to when my opinions are relevant and how far they can go. I mean, compared to 90 seats, I can work so hard, but if I can't get them, I'm gonna stop like that. Similarly, if you know that you cannot get through with it with the finance minister, there may at some point also be such a sense of impotence, where you do not really work hard for it, and where you accept the state of affairs to a greater extent than if you could see that it was actually the content side that you, as the Resort Minister, had the weight in relation to, that is to say, as you should have with the ministry you had behind you that it was the framework that you got from the Minister, and then you were quite keen as a minister to take responsibility in your area of responsibility. That was a comment, and my question is just: can there be a time when, as a leader, you are going to set too strict a limit for what comes from below actually going through? That is what the debate here is, among other things. It is a question of whether the Minister of Finance has too much influence in a ministry and whether it can go beyond professional competence in the individual area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210535	Thank you. The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210544	Well, the theoretical answer to that question is, of course, yes. Of course, you can imagine some situations where you had to centralize too much or you don't give room for management. Of course you can. It is not something that occurs in my government, because then I would change it. And if there were ministers who felt that space was too small, they would say no. That is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210605	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. Will Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen come up here and finish off?
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210620	Well, I'll be brief. Thank you to the rapporteurs, and although we have not been in agreement, I would certainly like to thank those who have gone into it and have taken it as a relevant debate. It may be that there have been some exceptions from that point of view, but I know that this discussion is taking place in every party in this government. So I think the discussion will continue as well. Because if you've got just a little insight into how the government works, whether it's in one color or another, it must sometimes seem a little strange that when a trade minister wants to have something presented and takes up a case that he himself thinks is the most important thing in the world... they may not think so in the other ministries... then the person in question simply cannot get it under the control of the government, because there is a steering group you can't get past or whatever it is. Therefore, it was actually intended not to point out any concrete officials. That is not what the discussion has been about. It has been about the fact that over time we have produced a system which many, at least the government-supporting parties, which they call themselves, do not question. I think that's a little too bad. However, although the Prime Minister will by no means acknowledge that there is a systemic concentration of power and does not agree with the premise, I would nevertheless like to thank the Prime Minister for coming forward and thank you very much for the debate, and also very much for the opening remarks that the Prime Minister cannot find anything better to spend his evening on than discussing our people's rule. I fully agree with that. So thank you so much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210803	Thank you. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Thursday 11 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210816	The debate is open, and that is first Mr President. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509210855	Thank you. The massive problems and scandals of recent years have revealed that there are deep problems with the SKAT. This has weakened the confidence of citizens and companies in the functioning of our tax administration, and this is deeply problematic for a tax-financed welfare society such as the Danish one. It is a task of duty that must and must be rectified. One of the major problems that has been in our tax system for a number of years is the problems of faulty property assessments, in fact so problematic that the previous government had to decide back in 2013 to suspend the system and continue the assessments until a new system was in place. Fortunately, we have now reached the stage of examining the legislation implementing the agreement on a new system of property valuation. The property tax is a significant source of tax, which is worth some 40 billion. kr. per year in tax revenue to drive our welfare community for. For the individual it may also be a significant amount paid in tax. It is quite untenable that we have been in a situation where the basis for the tax payment has been as imprecise as it was and where it has not been possible to complain about the property assessment, and it is in some way rather odd that people in Denmark seem to have just got used to it being so, although it is a very big problem and not something that belongs in an orderly society like ours. So I welcome among many others, I believe, that in November 2016, a broad majority of Parliament's parties concluded the agreement for a new and far more accurate and transparent property assessment system. A major damage to the base of our tax system is now being repaired before it goes completely wrong, for the benefit of anyone who somehow pays property tax, and that is of course the vast majority of us, and for the benefit of legal certainty in the field of taxation. On top of that, a new housing tax is applied, which, as you know, has been agreed a week ago. We are not going to deal with this today, but it is part of the picture of the creation of orderly conditions, predictability and security of property taxation and the economy of property owners. We are pleased about this as Social Democrats. The scope of the legislative proposals reflects the fact that we are working on a larger machine here, but together they create the regulatory framework for the further development of the new assessment system, which will become more reliable, transparent and fair. So some impact points in the proposals start with safety. The assessment of houses and properties is not an exact science. There will always be an element of discretion, in relation to what is exactly the right price for a house or property, and once things are running on the market and a seller has to find a buyer, there can be all sorts of conditions that apply, which means that a particular house or apartment is sold a little differently than you might think. So there is not an exact price in this way, but with the new system based on actual trade prices in an area, there is a significant improvement in safety. An assessment standard is introduced, an uncertainty margin of +/- 20%, within which the assessment must be carried out. The owner is given the opportunity to provide additional information about the property, which will contribute to the accuracy of the assessment. The proposal also lays the foundations for more uniform assessments. The new system will provide a much greater uniformity and ensure that property owners gain a better insight into how the valuation of their property has been made. To this end, a declaration procedure is introduced so that you can see what information is important for the assessment of your property and, as something new, you will also be able to supplement it with new information before the assessment is carried out. In this way, the assessment of a house should in future be justified and explained to the individual owner and be significantly more transparent than it is today, and that is also positive. The proposal also addresses one of the obvious problems left behind by the old system, namely that there are homeowners who have paid too much tax, because the assessments have been wrong and have therefore been continued for a number of years. With the proposal here, those who have paid tax on too high an estimate will automatically pay back the too much paid tax with a percentage surcharge, and that is only fair. Not least at the request of the Social Democratic Party, and other parties too have been concerned about this, it has also been decided to set up a refund scheme for tenants and shareholders, as exactly as is now possible. Repayments will typically be made in rural areas and in smaller towns where assessments have been too high. In relation to agriculture, among other things: There is, of course, a simplification which lies in the draft law, where you can make a projection of the value of the reasons. In the consultation phase, an additional element has been added, as the government has requested, to an additional 5-percent reduction in the tax base. This is an element that we would like to examine more closely in the committee procedure, which was not part of the negotiations in the first place. The legislative proposals also propose new rules for the review of complaints. In future, complaints about assessment cases will be dealt with mainly by a number of new assessment boards, which must be anchored locally and have a high level of professional competence. Here it has been important for us to maintain a layman element, and there is still a discussion about exactly what the decree issued by the Minister to say what the new boards should be structured looks like, and so, as I said, it is important for us to maintain a layman element and an understanding of local conditions. It is also established that it costs 1,000 DKK. to complain about its property assessment, and here I think it is important to say that there is then a declaration procedure, a greater transparency in how to achieve the assessment that has been made, greater reliability in the system in general, a 20% transparency principle and, hopefully, a less need to complain. This is, of course, one of the concerns one can have, i.e. whether there is dimensioning to deal with the complaints that will be, but I think it has to be said that we will have a system that is significantly more rightful and that greater transparency has been created as a citizen in order for there to be a lower level of complaint. Nevertheless, there is a task in ensuring that citizens trust it and that the system works so well that it can be trusted. In addition, initiatives are proposed to improve the quality of the handling of complaints and at the same time make the treatment more effective. The new system will be used for the first time for the assessment of owner-occupied dwellings in 2018 and for the assessment of other properties, including commercial properties and also non-profit housing and cooperative housing, in 2019. With the legislative proposals, we will ensure the legislative framework needed to establish an assessment system that will provide more accurate assessments than it has been in the past and will thus be a solid basis for collecting the EUR 42 billion or so. DKK, which citizens and companies pay annually in real estate taxes. It has to be said here that this is a real and important problem which the Danish Parliament will solve during this parliamentary term. As I have said, therefore, it has been quite untenable that the valuation of real estate was so incorrect and had to be suspended altogether since then. It is only good and fair that we now have a system that is more to be trusted. As we can see, we are in favour of the proposals and will vote in favour of both the legislative proposals we are working together here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509211609	Thank you, sir. Jesper Petersen. No one wants to make a brief comment, so we move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Dennis Flydtkjær from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509211618	I shall start with the history of the fact that we are here today, because it is actually a matter that has been going on for a very long time, not the legislative proposal itself, but the problem. For it is based on the fact that the Reichsaudit back in August 2013 stated that 75%. The property valuations were wrong. Some were too tall and some were too low, and there was an experience that even one's houses were assessed differently. Of course, this was not sustainable and therefore a process was set in motion to create a new property assessment system. And that is why we are standing here today, in order to translate it into a legislative proposal which will then form the basis for it. There is a broad agreement behind it, and I think that is also worth emphasising, because it is quite positive that as a homeowner one can have confidence that it can probably form a basis for many years to come and that it will not be changed after a choice or two elections. As I have said, this is about new property assessments, where the framework for how property is assessed is more precisely defined here, which is based on a wide range of parameters. Some will experience increasing assessments and others will experience falling assessments. The increasing assessments will typically be in the larger cities and in the metropolitan area, where the falling assessments will typically be in rural areas. Where you get a lower estimate, it also means that you have paid too much in housing tax in the past, and that is why I think it is important that it is said, as the previous rapporteur said, that with this bill we also ensure that the homeowners who have paid too much get the money back. And that, of course, is only fair. What is crucial about the system we are discussing today with the proposal for a property valuation law is that we get more accurate assessments and that people can be confident in the future that we will have an assessment that is fairly appropriate within what you think you can get for your house. And that is also what has been said about the fact that one hundred per cent is never really affected, and that is what we have recognised with the legislation we have made, by the fact that we have introduced a precautionary principle of 20 per cent. This means that you have a house, for example. is estimated at 1 million. kr., you pay property tax of 20%. less than that, that's 800,000 kroner. That is also reasonable, because the uncertainty that exists in the fact that the assessment does not hit precisely must of course benefit the citizen. And that is why it is only fair that the citizen should then also pay tax on a small amount of money. We have been told during the negotiations that approx. 70% of all housing assessments will hit within this range of plus/minus 20 per cent, and of course it means very logical that some will hit outside. Therefore, of course, there will also be some homes that are manually assessed forward, simply because it can be difficult to assess them if there has been no neighbourly sale or if the house is far from all other houses. It can also be a very special property like a castle or other thing. One important thing in this bill I think is what is called the declaration process, that is, where there will be an opportunity for you as a homeowner to have an information document sent out, where you can see what forms the basis for the assessment given to the house, and that you will then also have the opportunity to give some input if there are some things, some factors that have not been taken into account. I think that is actually very good, both to give a better insight into how the authority has come up with an assessment, but also because it can take the top of the need to complain, that you can report early in the process if there are some things that may be factually wrong, or if your house might be close to a windmill or other things that you don't know about can influence the price you can get for the house, and hence also the assessment. One of the things I think is gonna be crucial in this process is that it's gonna be easy to understand. I think most homeowners, including myself, cannot find a head and tail in how to come up with the assessment that is today. In other words, it is simply impossible for an ordinary Dane to see through it, and I think it is crucial that the new system should be able to see if it can be seen, for example. is a neighboring sale that has formed the basis, or that is how far it is estimated that the house is from water, or how large it is, so it is obvious which parameters are used. This is simply crucial, so that one can also be confident that the right data has been used to come to the most qualified guess, one can almost say the valuation of the property, because it never hits a hundred percent. I think that is absolutely crucial. Having said that, however, it is clear that there will also be some who do not feel they are getting the right assessment and still need to complain. So a good right of appeal is, of course, absolutely crucial in terms of legal certainty. And at least there I think it has been important that we have tried to keep the complaint fee down. It is down to about DKK 1,000, which is of course to be compared with the average cost of DKK 8,500. to deal with a complaint. And as has been said, of course, you get the 1,000 kroner. If you win the complaint, you get back. After all, we are dealing with two legislative proposals, and the second legislative proposal, that is, L 212, is the proposal which mostly deals with the right of appeal. And a lot of text has been put in on the structure of the future Board of Assessment, where the structure of the future will be such that we get some professionals into it, which will amount to 50 per cent. of the members. I think that's super good. This can help to increase professionalism. There have been some figures in the past that of the cases decided by the Board of Appeal, 73 per cent were reversed when they were transferred to the National Tax Court. This might suggest that there was a need for a strengthening of professionalism. But we think it is important that there is still some sort of layman structure over it, so there is some local knowledge which is also crucial, i.e. if it is to be done, for example. is a real estate agent who is put in as a professional, that he is then himself from the area where he has to evaluate properties. So it is important, as Jesper Petersen also said in his rapporteur's speech, that we ensure both local representation and division in circles. How big do they have to be? Does it make sense, if there is a distance of more than 100 km from one end to the other, to say that there is still a local representation, or should there perhaps be smaller circles? We also think that this is worth a closer look at. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that there is one small thing that is also included in the draft law, which I think is worth noting: there has been the challenge in the past that when a municipality changed a local plan, that is, the basis for what the percentage of settlements, for example. must be in an area, or when an area was laid out for center purposes, then a reason became much more valuable. And then the homeowner was faced with the problem of getting a much higher ground debt without necessarily being able to do anything about it. Because it could be, for example, that you... After 10 years of having had a higher ground debt, find that there should then not be the second use of the land and then the local plan will be changed back. I mean, you may never have had a chance to gain a profit from the fact that there was a different level of use. This bill introduces a "can' clause so that the municipalities can exempt an owner from this increase in the ground debt while a change in the planning basis is being made. We think this is quite reasonable, because you have bought a house on the assumption that you can sit there for many years. And the fact that some people come from outside with a modified local plan cannot be held responsible for that property owner. That is why I think it is quite good that we have brought in that provision and that the municipalities can exempt homeowners from those increases in the land debt. In conclusion, we are part of the agreement that has been made, both on the assessments, but also on the second part of taxation, which will come later. And that's why we can of course support this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212330	Thank you, sir. Dennis Flydtkjær, and welcome to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212339	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. The bright listener will note that the Left's tax rapporteur has not been cut. So I am standing here instead of Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, who is busy elsewhere. Then the day has finally come when we can discuss the proposal for this new property assessment system. It is good that we have arrived at this point, because our entire system of property valuations has not only been a challenge, it has been a problem that has required a thorough solution. It has been a long time since we became aware that the current system does not calculate the assessments quite correctly. The National Audit Office already pointed out in 2013 that there were no small problems with the property valuations. The system is simply outdated and misleading. Of course, this was pointed out at the time, but it chose the then government not to respond to it, so it was one of the tasks that lay waiting for the Left Government when it took over responsibility in 2015. I must say that I am pleased that the government managed to secure such a broad majority and also a great recognition for the fact that the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left are helping to take responsibility. Because it is absolutely crucial that we have a broad and solid political agreement on this. For some, the new assessment system means that they have paid too much tax so far, and they must of course have the money back. Of course, we should not keep people's money in the treasury if they do not belong there, and therefore the refund scheme is also part of the bill. For others, this may mean that they have paid too little tax, but it would, after all, be unreasonable to let taxpayers pay for the system's failure to function. That is why we are not going to ask those who have paid too little, where it is not their own fault, to pay back what they have paid too little. With the proposal for a law on review boards, we will ensure that in future we have a more efficient and proper complaint structure. That has not been good enough so far either. The new complaint structure should include: help restore confidence in the public property assessment system, and the new rating boards will continue to have a layman's body, as we know it today, and it will be supplemented by professionals from the real estate industry. This is in order to respond to the criticisms that have been made about a lack of professional competence in the assessment boards. The new valuation standard also contains a precautionary principle, which must also help to hold hands under the landowners. There will always be some uncertainty associated with an assessment, that is why it is called an assessment, and it should not be held against the property owners. Therefore, a 20% spread is proposed, which must be deducted from the valuation of properties and land before the tax is calculated. Together, we have come up with many very good initiatives. These two new legislations are important elements in a very, very crucial work to rebuild confidence in SKAT. That is why, of course, the Left votes in favour of the legislative proposals, and I should like to welcome our colleague from the Conservative People's Party and say that they do. Unfortunately, he has been prevented from arriving. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212714	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212718	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. In fact, I agree with several of the comments that have been made and also with the need to restore people's confidence in the assessments and that there must be a precautionary margin in the new assessment system. But why 20%?? Why did you land at 20%??
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212746	That's a good question. You have to have a safety margin somewhere, and I don't have to be smart about why it just landed on the 20%. I regret that I cannot give a full answer to that. I am not the rapporteur in this area. But I'm sure the tax minister will be able to answer that later. I think it is fair that we have this precautionary principle and say to people: it is an assessment. If it isn't measured in whole lengths of clogs, then it's an assessment. Because the only way to determine the real value of a house is to sell it. And after all, it's a very cheap all of us to just move a house to the right to figure out how much it's really worth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212819	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and welcome to Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Rune Lund from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509212830	After all, these two legislative proposals contain different elements, and I will choose to focus on the things that make us critical of the legislative proposals, which, of course, must also be seen in the context of the housing tax agreement that has been concluded here last week. Especially in relation to the assessment standard of plus/minus 20%, which then has to reflect the uncertainty in the assessments, we have the view that we think it is too much. Our basic position is that instead of creating and operating with a lot of uncertainty margins, we should create an assessment system that is, from the outset, accurate and that, in addition, we can have a very good right of appeal. That will be the best solution for us to see. Then we think that another problem with this proposal is that for agricultural and forestry buildings it is proposed to continue the current assessments under the so-called farmer's rule in a new projection scheme. In practice, the farmer's rule means that agricultural land is assessed at a much lower value than the actual value of the land. This is not primarily due to the farmer's rule in itself, which, apart from the wording of the medium-sized farm, is based essentially on having to hit current trade prices. On the other hand, the low estimates are due to the fact that since 1992 recruitments under the farmer's rule have been carried out in the form of projections of the per hectare price. And those projections have been very cautious, and the result is therefore that the estimates under the farmer's rule are only about a third of the price that can be found to be traded for when agricultural land is traded in free trade. We have asked from the Enhedslisten in the past what the proceeds would be if, as it were, the farmer's rule was abolished, and we are talking about an amount of about 1 billion. kr. a year, which could be used to finance welfare initiatives. In addition, it is proposed that repayment schemes be set up for owner-occupied dwellings and businesses to ensure that property owners who have paid tax after too high an estimate are automatically reimbursed the tax. And, of course, it is perfectly logical that, if you have paid too much tax on a wrong basis, you should have your money back. So that part of the proposal is, of course, entirely logical and it can be supported by Enhedslisten. Overall, we would like to see a well-functioning property tax system, but to introduce a 20% uncertainty as a standard, we do not think that is satisfactory. In addition, we are quite unhappy that the farmer-farming rule is being maintained, which is a totally unfair tax concession. Then we have a large number of technical questions about the way in which the assessments are to be calculated, so in this context there are some questions on my part in connection with the work of the committee. And then we will have the opportunity later to discuss the housing tax agreement itself and the imbalance that is inherent in it, in relation to among others. the tax rebate introduced with the 20% precautionary principle, which means that one million villa north of Copenhagen to 15 million. kr. will receive a deduction of 3 million. kr., while a house in Næstved to 1 million. kr. e.g. will only receive a deduction of DKK 200,000. So it is a housing tax agreement, which we would rather have drawn up in a completely different way, namely by simply phasing out the tax freeze, both the tax freeze on the property value tax and the increase in the land tax. We have, of course, been given figures in the past that the increase in the land tax and the tax freeze on the property value tax total amount to a price of 11 billion. kr. in 2015. And it is clear that if you phased out that tax freeze, you would free billions of dollars for welfare. At the same time, it could be combined with a freezing system which has been proposed, which will ensure that as a homeowner you will not be able to be taxed out of your home because of current taxation. So the combination of a phasing-out and a freezing system could solve many problems. It would solve three key issues for the Enhedslisten: 1) that we get a housing tax system without price bubble; 2) that we get a fair tax on socially created values; and 3) that we have a housing tax system in which we minimise the risk of people being taxed out of their homes because of a current housing tax. So the Enhedslisten is negatively disposed towards the two proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509213336	Thank you, sir. Rune Lund. There are no brief comments, so we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509213344	Thank you. This is a quite comprehensive legislative proposal that we are dealing with now. It is, as others have also said, the settlement reached between the former V government and the other bourgeois parties, as well as the Social Democracy and the Radical Left. There's a lot of work behind both of these bills, since making a public assessment system is not an easy task. There are a lot of people who have been working for a very long time, for many years, on this new system. I really think they deserve a thank you for that. We sometimes forget to thank them. I think they deserve a thank you in this context. However, as I said, it is complicated and difficult to make a public property assessment system because it is basically about guessing the market price of a property. After all, the market price of the properties is dependent on a wide range of factors, including something as simple as the seller's situation, local conditions, economic conditions in general. It's not uncomplicated. When it has been decided politically that citizens should be taxed on the basis of the value of their housing, it is, of course, fair that citizens can expect the public property assessment to hit as precisely as possible. Taking away citizens' money is one of the most intrusive things that we politicians can do. So citizens must be able to have confidence in the property assessment and that any complaints about the assessment are dealt with seriously and professionally and quickly. Citizens must also be able to see why their accommodation has been assessed as it is. That is fair because, as I said, the assessment is of great importance to the citizens' economy. Doubts must also benefit citizens, which is why it is also difficult to see this bill, regardless of the agreement we have just concluded, on property taxation itself, in which the tax base itself represents the public property assessment minus 20%. Public property assessments have been suspended since 2013 and this is an indication that the public property assessment system has actually collapsed. It is in itself a remarkable situation in an otherwise highly developed society as the Danish one. But now we will have a new property assessment system and we will have a new complaint system. I also think we should be honest and say that it is probably not possible to create an entirely perfect property assessment system. There will be advantages and there will be disadvantages. In our view, the new system is not perfect either. There are various considerations which need to be weighed against each other. I think we should be honest about that. There will probably also continue to be citizens who will wonder at the valuation of their housing, especially if they are right that their housing is overrated but will not change the public property assessment because it is within the uncertainty range of plus/minus 20%. But that is an indication that the public property assessment is an estimate. The market price of the same house may vary from week to week and even between relatively similar houses. Having said that, however, we believe that the new property assessment system has created the best possible property assessment system, and I also believe that it can be said with certainty that it will be even one of the best in perhaps the whole world. We can be proud of that. I certainly hope so. However, I am not so naive that I believe that we will not experience problems in the future or that the discussion will stop when it is implemented. We will probably continue to have to discuss this and will probably continue to work on it. But the overall framework is now firmly established, and we are pleased about that. So, of course, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509213850	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and welcome to Mr. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509213858	Thank you. My general message here from the platform today will be: Wow, how we would have liked to have been involved in the negotiations in the alternative. In fact, we see no reason to keep it in a narrow circle of conciliation when we have to approach something and learn more in such an important area, where it is finally very interesting whether we can get as many parties as possible to back up, so that we do not end up in a situation where, for political reasons, we are shooting at something that is so important for Denmark. I have a call to make, and I find that the tax minister is often sensitive to the calls that are made. So I have a call, whenever possible, to invite us along. Then we must be put outside the door at the end if there is no consensus. In this case, it would make it possible that I did not need to ask for a technical review which I would very much like to have. I do not know at present whether that is possible, but there is usually a great deal of sensitivity to that. For this proposal, we are generally very positive about the alternative when we decouple the political element. I mean, there's a need for a new property assessment system. We will back up on that. That is why we have also supported all the dossiers that are going to be used to finance this, and will do so in the future too. The monstrous IT systems that are supposed to make sure that this may be, like Mr. Knox. Joachim B. Olsens says it's gonna be the best property valuation system in the world. We would like to help finance that. We want to be one of the parties responsible. In fact, I think there are a great many parties who would like to do so, if you do otherwise, for example in a negotiating room. We support the two proposals. In particular, it is essential that the appeal body be adapted to the new system. I see that in Bill L 211, it must be. The barrier that needs to be overcome in committee work is precisely the housing tax agreement that was concluded last week. We very much disagree that in the long term it is the right thing for Denmark. We think it's a good thing we're gonna get rid of the housing tax stop. We think it takes a little too long to maintain it. And then there is a progression in taxation that we would like to see quite different. We think that in many ways the housing tax agreement has been misplaced. But there's a lot of support for it. As I have also said before, it is actually a victory for democracy when so many parties support the housing tax agreement. The fact that we cannot be part of the alternative is then an ape dabei. But it is good that there are so many Danes who get their wishes fulfilled in the housing tax agreement that came last week. As I said, we disagree. We can't back it up. However, we have looked in isolation at these two legislative proposals and said that we would like to support a property assessment system in spite of this. We'd like that. However, I shall now go straight into the technical review and see the 20% that has been set up as the margin of error. Do you pay too much or too little in taxes? I'm thinking it's huge. I would like to see a simple calculation made in the examples relating to the new housing tax agreement. If it's a home for 7.5 million. kr., for example, it can be estimated at 6 million. kr. It was one of the maths from the Ministry. That's a lot of money. In relation to the situation, I would like to find out whether there is an intentional or unintentional tax advantage for some groups in the range that is so large. I have read that the proceeds should actually be unchanged, so it probably does not, but that is one of the things I would like to have gone through. So support for the agreement and not least the continued work of the tax minister to strengthen the SKAT and confidence in the SKAT. In the alternative, we would really like to look more backwards and find out how the errors have occurred. However, there is a huge need for us to back the current tax minister and that openness in order to make it good for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509214314	Thank you, sir. René Gade. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Andreas Steenberg, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509214322	In the Radical Left, we have considered it a bottom-up task to find a property assessment system that works. We ourselves were in government when the present system was suspended, simply because it was simply wrong and did not assess the housing properly. Whatever the tax the citizens have to pay, it must of course be the case that it is calculated as correctly as possible and as fair as possible to the citizens, who have to deliver some of their money to the community. It has to be said that the tax system that has been in the area of housing has not been fair and fair to the citizens. In our view, the system we are currently operating is significantly better, significantly fairer, much more correct than the system that exists. This follows the recommendations of the so-called Engberg Committee, which was trying to find out how to create a proper system. We have also created a completely new system to assess the properties. It is a system that comes closer to the citizens, into the local areas, and so it should be the case that those who assess the properties are closer to the individual areas, the individual markets, and thus can make an assessment that is much more accurate than today. It is also the case that citizens who have paid too much can get their money back without having to complain and through a great process. We're really happy about that, too. Overall, we believe that we are now putting in place a proper system. There will be more staff to assess; you will make better assessments; and the citizens will be better placed in the system. We are very pleased about this in the Radical Left. Like a number of my colleagues, I would also like to thank the parties that have helped to create this system. I think that is an important work. I think it is important that we in the Danish Parliament have been able to agree on this and there has been no scam in it. What people have been faced with has been too bad. We support the two legislative proposals and are very happy to do so and are very pleased that the political agreement was made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509214540	Thank you, sir. Andreas Steenberg. Here too there are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509214555	A few years ago, the National Audit Office came up with a devastating criticism of the assessment system; that is no exaggeration. The criticism was that the Treasury had managed the property assessment area very critically, knowing that the area had long been problematic. The National Audit also said that the Ministry had actually been aware of the problems in the field of assessment since it was taken back in 2003, and quite specifically since 2007. So there was almost no end to the criticism that came from the Reichsaudit: that the area was problematic, that in three out of four cases there were wrong assessments, that one had been aware of the problems for years and not done enough about it. And this discussion actually came before a lot of the other matters in the field of taxation; one can say that it was a bit of a kick-start. Many people are responsible for this, which is why many have to take responsibility for cleaning up. That is why I would like to start by saying that we, too, from the SF, support these two legislative proposals that we are discussing today. Because, of course, we need a new assessment system that people can trust. I've met a lot of people who all think they've paid too much. I haven't met anyone who thinks they're exactly the ones who paid too little. And that is probably a perfectly natural approach to have: that you are very worried about that, also because it is a large part of your private economy. But the problem is that there have been both too low assessments and too high assessments, and that basically it has given more than scratches in the paint on the people's confidence in both the assessment system and the SKAT in general. That is why it was also necessary to clean up, and the clean-up work has been going on for several years. It is now under the responsibility of the current tax minister, and I think he has taken that on board as well. As far as the assessment system is concerned, it is not just a question of assessing buildings correctly; it also has a large number of other consequences. In other words, in addition to providing a basis for property and housing taxes, it also has implications for registration fees, estate and inheritance taxes, tax on free housing, calculation of return on capital, etc. etc. So there are many derived effects of having wrong assessments. My colleagues from the Enhedslisten have said that in the best of all worlds you should have a very precise system. Then I must just say that it has not heard any of my other colleagues say either, because we should not poke the public's eye that it is not going to happen, not a hundred percent safe system, and therefore, of course, there must also be a safety margin. We think from the SF that 20%. We may have been set equally high, but we are in favour of the very principle that there should be a safety margin. We're not going to make a hundred percent safe assessment system, because this isn't completely objective. So, it can swing from one week to the next and depend on what is being built nearby, the local sea water state etc. etc. This is going to be a much better system, and I am convinced of this and we will therefore continue to support it, including in relation to the documents to be given in the Committee on Finance. 'Cause I'm convinced it's gonna be a lot better. But we must also be honest with the people and say that it will be best man's best guess, not guess, and that there will also be a whole series of reasons for completely manual control, so to speak, and that this safety margin will be put in. One can then say that the 20-percent safety margin will apply • it was one of my other colleagues also mentioned both for the cheap house in South Jutland and for the liebhaver villa in North Zealand. And, therefore, the assessment of the relationship between the very different lands or dwellings that are on the grounds is not necessarily more just, but for the individual it will be perceived more fairly. The second proposal is for a new assessment board and other measures to enable a more effective and improved review of complaints. And that is something we have been discussing for a long time: how can we guarantee people's right to complain, to appeal, and at the same time ensure that the fragile tax system, which we, too, now that it is to be rebuilt, must be careful not to be overturned by millions of complainants who are all convinced that they have paid too much. So when all these considerations are put together, I think it is a good piece of work that has been done. There will certainly be an advantage over the safety margin for those who have the most expensive housing, but on the other hand it can be said that there has been a sort of reverse Robin Hood principle in these assessments because there have been very cheap grounds, houses, in rural areas that have paid disproportionately. So there are things that stick in different directions. It has been a very difficult task for those who have made the proposal for this system, and I think that it has been hit as well as possible. My final comment is actually just that, although SF is not part of the agreement, I have not at any time concealed the fact that, of course, we also believe that we bear a share of the responsibility, and therefore also want to help correct the damage that has been done and ensure that we again have a property assessment system that people can trust.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509215231	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. And like the raisin in the sausage end, I almost said, "The last person on the platform is the tax minister." Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509215244	Thank you for the floor, President. After all, it is a pity and a pity that such a bill should be dealt with on Tuesday evening, because it is an historic agreement that has been made on the property tax, and it is an historic agreement that has been made on property valuations. These are two agreements which mean that the justification for levying property taxes as the source of income which property taxes are for the state, so that we can use the money for our welfare society, will be fair and fair to the country's homeowners. I choose not to take the late hour we are discussing this draft law as an indication of how it will be prioritised, and I would like instead to welcome the positive reports that have come from the rapporteurs who have been on the platform. There has been a predominantly positive reception, not only from the parties involved in the agreement, but also from a number of other parties which are not involved in the settlement. Restoring confidence in public property assessments is an essential task for society. Property owners must have confidence in the property valuations that are being made and they must have access to complain under proper and reasonable conditions, because we owe this to the property owners in relation to levying property taxes on a legitimate basis. In my view, as a tax minister, we simply cannot be aware to go any further with a system where there is so much uncertainty about what is the starting point for taxation, that is, the housing tax. We feel that, when we tax wages, people know what they are paid, and we also have a fairly square, schematic system of what you then have to pay at different tax rates, depending on what you get in pay. That is to say, it is right and fair to all. Then tax rates can be discussed, that is fair enough, but the basis for the collection of income tax and personal taxes is in order. When you tax something on an ongoing basis, you can discuss the fairness and fairness of it, and when you tax something on the basis of an assessment, you can in particular problematize it, and when we now find ourselves in a situation where we know that the property assessments we have today are not good enough and do not rely on a fair enough basis, we, as responsible politicians, naturally owe it to ourselves to come together and find a better system to assess what to pay in housing tax. And that is what we have done together. It is a project that actually started under the former government, then the tax minister, Mr. Benny Engelbrecht set up the Engberg Committee to look at a model for this. The committee did not come up with a large, chrome-plated solution, but it did come up with a good, professionally sound starting point so that we could continue to work towards a new system that assessed the homes more correctly and more fairly. We have then worked on this in my year and a half as tax minister, and it ended up in the agreement on a new property assessment system, which a broad majority in the Folketing is behind, and that agreement was reached before Christmas. The basis for restoring the confidence that has suffered a break is secured by these two draft laws. In any case, implementation and implementation of the two legislative proposals are ensured. In the future, property assessments can be carried out on a much better basis and with a higher degree of certainty, while at the same time the property owners are involved in a kind of declaration process where they gain insight into the basis of the assessments. You simply get a proposal for an assessment message through your letter slot or in your e-mailbox, and there you have the opportunity to look at it and look at what is behind the assessment that SKAT has made, challenge it and declare the things that the tax administration and the assessment authority may not have taken on board. At the same time, property owners will be given the opportunity to provide this additional information. Hopefully, this will lead to a more transparent and more accurate assessment system than what we have today. At the same time, the legislative proposals also contain a refund scheme, which is historic, so that the property owners who have paid tax on too high an assessment will automatically get the taxes back without having to complain. That's 9 billion. kr., we send back to ordinary Danes, typically those who live in the smaller house outside the larger cities, who have paid too much tax because they have paid tax on a wrong and too high rating. It is only right and proper that they should get the money back. This falls outside the scope of the draft legislation under discussion, but I would also like to make a few brief comments on the new housing tax system, on which the same group of parties have agreed. It is about the Danes getting security not only in relation to the assessment, but also in relation to the taxation. I would like to thank you for the cooperation we have had on the assessment and in relation to taxation. It has been a long process across changing governments. It was first the narrow Left Government and then the new, larger and better government and the process that followed it. We have had some good long discussions where we have come to the bottom of both the assessment and taxation side and have reached each other in what I think is a good and sensible compromise in which all the participating parties can see themselves, and which, in these times when the people's regime is challenged around the world, shows that in Denmark, when it comes to important things, we can find a way of working together for the good of the community and for Denmark, and therefore for something that at least a broad circle of parties can see themselves in. I think that is actually quite remarkable. At any rate, this is something that I, as Minister of Taxation, am proud of. I am, of course, available if there are any questions in this Chamber today. Otherwise, there is a committee procedure that we have to do before the bill is adopted before Parliament goes on summer vacation. I would like to conclude by saying, although it is obviously not so nice when I understand that the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten cannot be present in the Chamber any longer, that I have a little difficulty in understanding that one can be opposed to it. I understand that we may be opposed to the taxation system we are proposing, but that is not what we are going to vote on here. Basically, however, I do not understand why we can be opposed to a system in which we have more right and correct assessments. And that's what we get. In my view, it is absolutely untenable to continue with the system we have. I would therefore urge those who are sceptical to think carefully before they choose to vote red on this proposal. You can then choose to vote red on the tax part when we have to legislate on it, as we approach 2020 and 2021, but a new and better assessment system, in which we ensure a more proper basis for what is to be taxed, is therefore difficult to oppose.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509220013	Thank you to the Secretary of State for Taxation. It will then be in committee, the debate will continue, because there are no brief comments. No one else has asked to speak either, and the debate is therefore closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Tax Committee. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It is so agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170509220037	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for their long work in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 10 May 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
