ParlaMint-DK_20171222080006	The meeting is open. From the Prime Minister, I have received a letter stating that, following the Prime Minister's recommendation by Royal Resolution of 13 December 2017, it was decided that the responsibility for IT operations relating to the administrative systems of the Danish Meteorological Institute was transferred from the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate to the Minister for Public Innovation. The message will appear in www.folktingstidende.dk (cf. (see below). According to my recommendation, the Royal Resolution of 13 December 2017 provides that the responsibility for all tasks, contracts and service agreements relating to basic IT operation of internal data centres, networks, servers and storage, operation of operating systems, standard IT workspace, service desk and user management, information security tasks relating to senior data centres and contracts and supply management tasks related to outsourced IT operations related to the technologies of the Danish Meteorological Institute, which are used for the operation of the Danish Meteorological Institute's administrative systems, is transferred from the Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate Affairs to the Minister of Public Innovation per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I would ask the President to inform the Folketing accordingly. Sign. Lars Løkke Rasmussen Today there are the following reviews: Claus Kvist Hansen (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 55 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the cessation of financial support for Palestinian self-government). Karina Adsbøl (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 56 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution requiring administrators to present hourly accounts). The titles of the notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171222080105	I would point out that both amendments and the proposal can be commented on and that it will also be allowed to comment on the legislative proposals on expenditure ceilings, L 2 and L 3. The Minister for Finance has informed me that he wishes to take Amendment No. 66, 114, 115, 217, 219, 308, 309, 467, 468, 487, 524-527, 529-540, 545 and 546 remain. Does anyone wish to accept these amendments? As this is not the case, the amendments have lapsed. The debate is open. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222080203	Thank you, President. We are gathered for the last third reading of a bill of finance in man's memory. When the Danes in December have turned on the news or opened a newspaper, they have been able to follow a chaotic course on a daily basis, where until the last week the government did not know whether the entire government itself would vote for their own Finance Act. It's been like keeping up with a bad Christmas calendar that can't be re-issued. In fact, it reminds me in many ways of the Christmas calendar that DR showed when I was 10 years old. It had an official name, it sounded very good, namely Christmas and green forests. But all of us children knew what it really was to be called, and we called it simply the hole in the ground. But even the Christmas calendar was better than what the government has exposed the Danes to. The negotiation process has been marked by the fact that the government has constantly had its focus elsewhere than on the Danes' common welfare budget and the challenges we face. One had the opportunity to ensure security and well-being, which has been neglected. This Finance Act could have been used to ensure more qualification and education, which has been neglected. December is a month when many Danes are busy with Christmas preparations when they come home from work or from school. Many will feel that you have to hurry a little extra to reach it all up to Christmas. Unfortunately, this financial law will also mean that in the future many Danes will meet more welfare workers who must hurry a little extra; that the time to talk to a nurse will be a little shorter, or that more children will have to share the attention of the educator. Because we know that next year we will have 30.000 more citizens over 70 years of age. It is an expression of the fact that we have a population that fortunately lives long and has several good years, but when the government does not want to keep the money to welfare with the development of the number of elderly, the screw tightens more for everyone. Social democracy will solve the challenges that the Danes are experiencing and that our economy is facing. This requires that we invest in the foundation of the Danish model, our common welfare society. This is the first priority of social democracy. At the same time, we must ensure growth and jobs. We must ensure that we train more skilled craftsmen and skilled workers, because the order books are already being filled and because in future companies must have the manpower they want. We in the Social Democratic Party have said this in the course of the whole autumn: let us now take things in the right order, let us use the economic room for manoeuvre. That is what all Danes are helping to contribute to the most important things. And if you look at the election result from the municipal elections, I think I can see that the Danes also agree with us. We could make sure that there is money for schools, hospitals and care for the elderly. We could invest in welfare and create even more frameworks for more Danish jobs. We could make the training boost that Denmark needs so much. The government has not chosen this path. Instead, we have an unambitious financial law that does not guarantee security and welfare and does not solve the challenges we have. At the same time, we in the Social Democratic Party are disappointed that the Danish People's Party, which otherwise had the opportunity to do so, has not succeeded in raising welfare more overall in the negotiations than has happened. For when the government's long-term plan will only ensure growth in public spending of 0.3 per cent, while there will be more elderly people, it is all Danes who will feel worse welfare in schools, hospitals and our elderly care. The government continues to say that more funds are being provided than last year, but at the heart of all Danes probably knows what the consequences will be now, i.e. when the needs are rising without the money coming along, because then we will feel worse welfare. It's actually simple logic. The government has repeated time and again that both tax relief and more welfare are affordable, but the result is different, because the money cannot be used twice. When the government uses our common scope for tax relief, it does not ensure security and welfare. Okay, good 1 billion. kr. the government chooses to distribute tax relief which is basically not needed. And let us be honest: it will not be the ordinary pensioner or craftsman who gets the most out of them. It gets the Danes who have the biggest incomes. Although the biggest tax cuts were withdrawn this year, I can only say that it is untimely and not fair that our common room for manoeuvre is used for skewed tax cuts. But most importantly: It does not solve the challenges that Denmark faces. It doesn't guarantee welfare. It does not create a foundation for many new jobs, and it does not help to train the labour market of the future. Denmark stands to lack approx. 70,000 skilled in 2025. We could have spent our time on the common challenge. But let me just turn the course of the debate itself in a few words. For everyone with something at stake in our welfare community has had to wait to hear how much money was set aside for welfare next year • all those with children in primary school, all with a father or a mother in nursing homes, all with a family member who is going through a demanding care course at the hospital. We have been a little more nervous recently because the government has created uncertainty about our common welfare budget up to the eleventh hour. In fact, we have been waiting for the government to agree with itself that it would actually vote for its own work, incredible enough. Let me briefly outline the path we Social Democrats want for Denmark. We would rather have given priority to welfare. We would have used the funds for a more dignified care of the elderly for all the elderly who have worked a long life. We would have secured funds for shorter waiting times for cancer treatment so that more people could get help quickly. We would have ensured more help for vulnerable young people who are struggling with psychological challenges and who need extra support. We would have found the means to strengthen the SKAT even more so that we could restore the Danes' confidence in our common tax administration, so that one can check one's own contribution at the bottom of the payroll and know that everyone else is also contributing, and that hard is being done against those who cheat. Our amendments here at the third reading reflect those priorities. We wanted to secure funds for vocational schools, which need so much safety and gain in order to carry out their important social task. Instead, the government has chosen a path in which schools can look forward to rolling cuts year after year, and even when you claim to have saved the cuts of the year with a quality pool, you only fill the gap in part anyway, because the fact is that next year, as a whole, our vocational schools will be cut. With the financial agreement here, parents, teachers and pupils now know that the next few years will have to tighten up, that new machines or tools will have to be put off and schools run the risk of combining educational provision in larger cities. Most Danes, like me, may find it difficult to see the sense of cutting vocational schools, yet that is what the government is doing. Most people know that Danish companies already lack skilled skilled workers and that it is precisely now that we have to ensure more opportunities to train, both young and old, so that we have more and more skilled skilled people in the future. That is why the Social Democrats' amendments here at the third reading reflect that we want to strengthen vocational training, not save them. The Danish economy needs an education boost now, and the waiting time costs. We do not need a continuation of reforms aimed only at the supply of labour. We already know that 100 000 more people will be in employment in the coming years. Nevertheless, the government has announced various cuts in this autumn, for example. For the benefit recipients and the SU, while looking closely at their own objectives of increased labour supply, even if that is not what we need. Instead of using the time to invest more in continuing training, we wanted to make it easier for both the unemployed and companies to invest in the labour market of the future, so that more people can move from unskilled to skilled so that we can get more smart heads and more smart hands. We would spend the money on creating growth and jobs with a number of measures that can make Danish companies invest more, invest in new machinery and new knowledge and ultimately invest more in Danish jobs, both for small and large companies and for the benefit of Denmark. The government has focused on implementing top tax incentives in different packages. This focus seems to continue in the new year, while the inheritance tax for the largest family-owned companies this year has also been lowered. These are measures that do not generate sufficient growth. These are measures that are not what Denmark needs. Unfortunately, this year I have to spend time here at the third reading of the Finance Act to see that the government does not fully recognise a broad majority in the Danish Parliament with regard to the Togfonden DK, consisting of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Enhedslisten, the Radical Left and the SF, which together are behind this in a conciliation circle. The fact that the government does not fully incorporate majority agreements into the 2018 Finance Act is an expression of a lack of respect for the majority of parliament and for the conciliation tradition, but what is worse, it creates uncertainty about the projects that will otherwise bring about major improvements in infrastructure and our public transport. A Finance Act is the foundation of our society. Our amendments show what we would have done differently if we had sat at the negotiating table. We would give priority to welfare first. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081206	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we start with the brief comments and perhaps questions. Sir. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081214	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I understand that the rapporteur believes that it is an unambitious financial law that has been made when one looks at, among other things. the welfare area. I would then like to ask the rapporteur: when you look at it that way, if you just have to look at money, and I really do not just think you should, because you should also look at what quality it is that you get, the rapporteur cannot confirm that if you look at how much money there is, among other things. In the area of the elderly, there has never been so much money before, even though we have had many technical solutions, even though we have received telemedicine? If you just go back 10 years, it was actually 38 billion. kr., and now there are actually 45 billion. kr. in the area of the elderly in the Finance Act that has just been agreed. Is that a lift, or isn't that a lift?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081256-2	Within the framework provided for by the government to negotiate, I recognise that funds have been set aside. What I had wanted and what the Social Democratic Party would have liked to see, we had sat at the negotiating table and which we could then have helped the Danish People's Party by lifting the framework, the funds that could have been used in this area. I really don't think that Mr. René Christensen and I disagree that the most appropriate thing would have been if one had lived up to financing the demographic move not only in the 2018 Finance Act, but in the Finance Laws as far ahead as the eye now reaches.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081330	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081332	Now it is the case that the Finance Act applies for one year at a time, but that is why we can also make estimates, and that is what we are doing in the context of the financial law negotiations. The rapporteur points out that the government had an ambition for growth of 0.3%. I therefore believe that the rapporteur is fully aware of the fact that the growth actually recorded in the budget law for 2018 is 1.0 per cent, i.e. also higher than that which the Social Democratic Party wants, which is 0.7 per cent. So the 2018 Finance Act is a very socially balanced financial law, where you can see that the core areas are actually being taken into account. The rapporteur used part of his speaking time to refer to the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party to the Finance Act. There I have noticed in Amendment No. 582, where you want to spend 1 billion. kr. more e.g. Increased integration. Is that what Social Democracy wants to spend growth towards 2025 on, in other words, spending money on increased integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081424	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081426	It's one of many things that lies in that pool. I would just like to attack the figure 1.0, and I think Mr. René Christensen had expected me to do so, because one has to take the starting point of how it is actually achieved. Yes, the 0.4 of the 1.0 is made up of that there is a lower consumption in 2017, so you can say that you get a part of the giving, and then we end up under the demographic trait. Then there is also part of the increase in funding which concerns increased costs of defence and security, and that is not something that improves the care of the elderly. One might say a little popular: hot cannons don't give any more warm hands in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081510	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081514	Thank you. It is a somewhat carefree Social Democratic rapporteur who says that there is no need for reforms to increase labour supply and that there is no need to secure more hands in the labour market. I do not think that is quite the picture that our companies are experiencing. I think there is such an undertone in the rapporteur's speech that cuts and savings are being made. That is why I would just like to ask the Socialist rapporteur to confirm that the agreement on which we are going to vote is worth 2 billion. kr. extra for health that it provides 2.7 billion. kr. extra for elderly care, and that there is more money for municipalities and regions next year • more money than there was at any time under the government that the Social Democratic Party had from 2011 to 2015 when the municipal service framework was reduced. Does the rapporteur for the Socialist Group not regret the fact that we have an agreement which shows that we can give priority to core welfare, while at the same time, among other things, giving priority to social welfare? will ensure better conditions for our businesses so that we can ensure that growth can continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081616	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081617	I am sorry that we have not ensured that the additional resources that could have been committed to welfare, thereby ensuring that we lived up to the demographic move, were set aside.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081628	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081630	However, I am glad that there is now clarity and that the Social Democrats say that no cuts are being made, it is not a bloodbath, it is not a welfare sacquer that is being spent more money on core welfare. I think that is a good thing. But I would also just like to know what it is then that the Social Democrats, with their amendments, are going to do to ensure that growth can continue. Because we surely agree that the prerequisite for us to be able to afford a welfare society in the future is that we have businesses that are productive, that make money home, that create jobs. Where is the social democracy's response to the challenges facing business? Because there is nothing in the amendments or in the small pamphlet about a proposal presented by the party, which helps to ensure that the recovery is maintained and maintained, so that the funding for welfare is available in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081718	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081720	Actually, there is. We have among other things. ECU 1 billion has been allocated for this purpose. kr. to Danish jobs for the upgrading of unskilled workers as part of our amendments to the draft budget here. And Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen is very welcome to vote in favour of that amendment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081736	Thank you. And then it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081739	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. The rapporteur mentioned this famous room for manoeuvre, which we see in the future and which, although it is described almost as such a savings, is a rather uncertain figure which we think will be the money that might be in the box forward. And the rapporteur says, and we fully agree with that on the part of Enhedslisten, that in relation to the room for manoeuvre, it is the case that if there is to be affording just the most basic welfare, every penny should be spent on welfare, on public spending. However, can the rapporteur not also confirm that even if we do so, even if we use all the room for manoeuvre, there is not enough money for welfare to follow the general development of prosperity in society, as it has done for decades? And can the rapporteur not confirm that former economic wise men and others have said very clearly that this would be a breach, so that even if you spend all the money that is there now, including what the Social Democrats are proposing, there will be an historically low growth in public spending that will mean that you do not follow? This means that when we get computers and better things at home, we cannot expect it at school; when there are better methods of treatment, we cannot expect them to be affordable. So is the reality not that there is a lack of money, including in the room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222081858	First of all, I can only confirm that there is uncertainty, and there will always be, as regards the size of the room for manoeuvre, and that is why we have a great deal of caution on the basis of using the room for manoeuvre, for example. to finance future tax cuts, since it is not possible to be sure that that money will come into the box because of future growth. And that in itself is quite uncertain. Then I can also confirm that our approach, as I said, is to keep our hand under welfare by ensuring that at least money is allocated to meet the demographic trait, which is also calculated by the Ministry of Finance. But it is also clear that it is not the same as being able to say that then there is money to have gold-plated faucets in the public sector. It would be wrong to say, among other things. Because we can all see that there are more older people. In 2025, fortunately, there will be 150,000 more than 70 years in Denmark. It shows that people live longer and are well, but it also means, of course, that there will be greater features in our welfare society, especially in the care of the elderly and health care sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082009	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082011	Thank you. I think it is important to make it clear that, even with what is called the demographic trait, it is a scraped welfare that we are looking forward to. It's just keeping your skin on your nose. And that's the money that the right-hand side of the hall has to pay, but now we have to see in relation to the Danish People's Party is prepared to spend on lowering the tax instead. Can the rapporteur not confirm that this is also a huge breach of promise? For some of the room for manoeuvre has been created by some reforms, such as the Prime Minister, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, and a number of other leading ministers in this government promised to be spent on welfare in the future. That's why the Danes had to work longer and have round-shaven their early retirement. It was because there had to be money for welfare when there were more elderly people. And now they come to help me God and they want to spend the money to lower the tax, among other things. For those who have the most.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082055	We should not call on the higher powers. We can take care of ourselves in here, we think. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082100	Thank you, President. I have heard that one of the country's ministers, the Foreign Minister, recently referred to the room for manoeuvre and described it as if the Danes paid too much tax. And that's bullshit nonsense to say. So I can only confirm that what has been said over time, among other things. Thor Pedersen, the then Finance Minister, when the welfare settlement was made in 2006, is that now it had been ensured that there was money for welfare in the future. It was not said at the time that there is now money to make tax cuts in 2018, 2019, 2020, or when the blue block will now agree with itself on something.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082141	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082146	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht is talking about the lack of labour for companies and yet the Social Democrats themselves are putting forward a proposal for a financial bill which reduces labour supply. Is it not hypocritical to say that there is a challenge in relation to labour shortages when you want to pursue a policy that makes that problem worse? Because there's a problem. Instead, the social democracy should help to solve the huge challenge that we are facing, which may ultimately mean that we will have wage developments that destroy our competitiveness because it is ahead of productivity and, finally, it will cost employment and prosperity. It is hypocritical that proposals should be put forward which, according to the Ministry of Finance, reduce employment in Denmark in the coming years when we need exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082250	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082252	That's very funny. I know, sir. Joachim B. Olsen is very interested in the supply of labour, but it is actually a little entertaining, given that none of the tax reliefs that have been introduced in this Finance Act are helping to increase the supply of labour. Well, let's just leave it alone. I have used a fairly large part of my rapporteur's speech to emphasise what the challenge is. Fortunately, there will be an increase in the number of jobs we have secured through many years of reforms, but what is the challenge is to ensure that we have the right hands for the jobs that arise, and that is especially the skilled ones. It is craft training, it is skilled training that we particularly need. On the basis of an analysis by the Workers' Employment Council, we know that in 2025 we will be missing 70,000 skilled workers, and we will only solve this if we ensure that some of the additional hands that then enter the labour market are ready to take up that job, and we will not do so unless we ensure their training. So it is a sensible investment in the future. I think you can get most people in the business world to recognise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082400	Thank you. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082402	Well, we would like to see some tax cuts being made which increased labour supply to a greater extent. The Social Democrats do not want to do that either. If you are going to lack skilled labour in the future, the answer is to make some labour market reforms that make some people who can stay on the labour market. That is what is effective. In addition, the government has also made a tripartite agreement, something that the Social Democratic Party itself was not able to do, as it was in government, which has just focused on the fact that more skilled labour is coming, that you can retrain, to 2.5 billion. kr. But if you really take this challenge seriously, it's about getting some labour market reforms done, some tax reforms that make people work more and people stay on the labour market. That's what's gonna work compared to the 70,000 you're gonna miss.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082458	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082459	Thank you. I have no doubt that for Joachim B. Olsen and the Liberal Alliance the answer is always, no matter what the question is, tax cuts. It is good to have it confirmed, but I must also say that what is especially necessary for us to have skilled workers is that they actually go to school, that we ensure qualification, and this problem is not solved by granting tax relief, and certainly not if we fund it by cutting down on vocational training. So it is quite counterproductive. It will then be interesting to see whether the government intends to live up to the tripartite agreement that has actually been concluded. I understand there's a little uncertainty about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082543	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082546	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I missed a little more focus on the green and the climate, there should be no secret about that. So I would like the Social Democrats to unfold a little more what they want, in other words how they want to take care of the environment and the climate, in relation to if the Social Democrats get the power of government at a later stage.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082609	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082611	I am incredibly pleased that we can agree very quickly and without much debate and palavs that the current government's ambitions in this area are too low. And I think that what we are lacking in particular from the current government is that leadership and ambition are shown in this area, especially as it ultimately costs growth and jobs. This is one of the things that we Socialists are very concerned about in relation to the green transition, namely that this is not just a question of doing the right thing for the world and for our common environment; it is also something that is really, really good business. I know that we do not disagree on that either. That is why, if we take just one small example, I think that the cuts that have been made on the EUDP area have been quite crazy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082702	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082704	Thank you. But I would really like to hear what the Social Democrats want to do for the climate and the environment. I do not think that was entirely answered here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082713	In particular, we would like to go beyond, of course, the whole area of environmental technology and thus support that Denmark remains a global leader when it comes to the green transition and the jobs that come with it prioritize our transport sector. I really think it is very characteristic that we have such a broad consensus on the Train Fund, the whole process of transformation that our public transport must endure, which the current government is so actively trying to oppose. In fact, I think that is very well highlighted by the difference in policy in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082751	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082754	Thanks for the speech. It was nice to hear a little green tones too. After all, we very much agree with the Social Democratic Party that the savings in vocational schools are totally, quite wrong, compared to what Denmark needs. We will also have a common amendment later in the day when the entire opposition together proposes to drop those savings. But we also feel in the Radical Left that we are equally sorry for the continuing savings that are going on in high schools during the seminars which are going on in universities in the field of research. There we find that we have not been able to attract the social democracy to say that, hopefully, when we get a common majority at some point, one of the first things we do is to stop the green harvester on Denmark's future, on Denmark's young people, on our education programmes. I am frankly sorry, but also a little surprised, because when one hears the rapporteur's excellent talk about the importance of education, one might well think that the Social Democrats share the ambition to stop the savings in Danish education. It could then be imagined that at the last minute the Social Democratic Party might have changed its mind and, together with the other opposition parties, would help to stop the savings in education?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222082912	There should be no doubt that the Social Democratic Party is opposed to the government's savings in education. It is quite the wrong way to go at a time when there is a need to invest in education. How a future government led by the Social Democratic Government is going to tighten up its financial law, I cannot say at this stage, but it is quite clear that our starting point is not that our society should move in a direction in which we do not rely on education. However, for the time being and in the draft budget that we have put forward, we have had to give priority to the limited framework that there is. We have also wanted to ensure that there was, for example, a means of raising quality in the area of the elderly, raising quality in health care, especially in cancer treatment. And it is clear that in the overall assessments, with the limited framework that now existed within the government's reserved negotiating room, we have had to give priority. We have then given priority to vocational training in the first place. How we are going to make it forward-looking, we shall have to see when we hope to have a change of government at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083023	Sir. Martin Lidegaard, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083025	Nor will I demand that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht is to present a final Finance Act for a period in which the Social Democratic Party may once enter government, but we are talking about next year's Finance Act. And my experience is that these savings are starting to hurt really badly, especially outside the large cities where vocational schools and colleges are closed and where jobs have been lost far more than have been relocated with state jobs. That is why, in my view, the issue is quite urgent, and that is why I am also sorry for the signal that is being given, namely that if I hear correctly it is not the highest priority for the Social Democratic Party. I would have thought that it might have been, because it is Denmark's future that is at stake.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083105	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083106	As I said, I cannot now explain how we are going to move forward, even because we do not know what the situation looks like on the day we are fortunate enough to be able to take over the government again. After all, the present government has done what it can to break things down. So there can be a great recovery then. But again, for there to be no doubt: we are opposed to the government's cuts in education. And it is clear that we must then give priority to what is most important, so it is here and now to say that it is the skilled training. That is where we have the greatest challenge. But that does not mean that we do not think it is wrong to cut back on research in general too, I have to say hurry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083149	Sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083152	Thank you. It is really nice that we can see that things are actually going quite well out there. More and more people are going to work, employment is increasing, and we have also just seen a record in the area of food exports. One of the reasons for this is that it pays to work, that it pays better to work, and one of the things that has been agreed about it is the ceiling on cash benefits. So now that the Social Democrats are trying to get a little bit in our way and say that they want to change a whole lot, will the Social Democrats actually abolish the ceiling on cash aid again if they get power, as they have been watching?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083227	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Erling Bonnesen has read our amendments to the Finance Act. It seems that Mr. Erling Bonnesen has. There you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen see that we have set aside a pool to correct the social imbalances caused by the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, among other things. for families with children. So today is 22 December, and I think that we all have a slightly weak point for the families of children which we can all see are being hit hard at a time when there are more than ever who are looking for Christmas aid. Then I think there is a very good reason to look at that particular area, and that is where we are ready to clean up after the current government, and I hope that Mr. Erling Bonnesen will give it a consideration if it was not worth prioritising that area a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083319	Here you go, sir. Erling Bonnesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083321	Such a pool is a very clever start. You could almost call it the pot to outside talk, because you can refer to it every time you are asked a specific question. After all, there is no shadow of a chance to do all the things that the Social Democrats here are pointing to with that pool. So I just have to say that the Social Democratic Party, unless the rapporteur will respond otherwise now, will not reverse the ceiling on cash benefits. It is fine to refer to that pool, but please confirm that the ceiling on cash benefits will be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083400	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083401	Actually, I'm very fond of Mr. Knox. Erling Bonnesen's commitment to this, because it shows that, after all, there are also sensible people in the Left who care about the fact that there are actually families with children who are hit hard by the policy pursued by the current government. The pool that has been set aside is funded with the reserve that comes from job reform 1, so it is fully funded and, of course, it is affordable. However, I am also well aware that there is a majority in the current Parliament that is in favour of the ceiling on cash benefits that has been introduced. So when we propose this, it is of course to give a hand, and we hope that there are people who will help to correct the social imbalances.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083445	Thank you. Mrs Louise Schack Elholm, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083448	After all, my honourable colleague's fine question could have been followed up, but I actually think I would like to ask something else. For one of my other good colleagues has spoken out that it was 16 times that the word welfare was mentioned. Let's try to compare it. The former Socialist government saved 3 billion. kr. in the municipalities, i.e. the close welfare, during the period of government, from 2011 to 2015. We have proposed that 1 billion be spent. kr. extra in the municipalities on welfare, i.e. on the close welfare, from 2015 to 2018. So I ask the Socialist rapporteur: who spends the most on the close welfare of the municipalities? Is it the Social Democrat who cut 3 billion? kr., when you were in power, or is it the bourgeois government that we have now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083541	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083542	It always gets a little strenuous when you have to repeat old calculations that are wrong. If we now start from the fact that the then SR government was responsible for finance laws, which had to do with 2012 and onwards, then the picture will be different. Because if you count on 2011 which was under a VK government, where there were major cuts in the public sector, then it is true that it will be a bad calculation. If you do not take it into account, the calculation actually looks like the overall welfare increased a little bit more than the demographic move was during the same period. But this is a debate we have had many times. But we can take it back.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083623	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083625	Now I specifically asked about the municipalities, because that is the close welfare that the Social Democratic Party always talks about, and the Social Democratic rapporteur replied to me in relation to the whole public sector, and that is not what I was asking. I asked about the municipalities. So I would like to ask the Social Democrat rapporteur once again to try to answer: did the Social Democratic Government cut down on the municipalities more than we do? Well, we add money to the municipalities. But can the Socialist rapporteur confirm that the former Socialist-led government cut down on the municipalities?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083659	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083700	In that calculation, Mrs Louise Schack Elholm still counts 2011 as an agreement with the municipalities, which was concluded by the then VK government, and then we are a little back in the same groove. So it can be a very long debate if we are to continue this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083715	Then it's mr. Jep Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083718	Thank you. A good old Danish saying is that not every hen that caches lays eggs, and that is kind of the way it is with the Social Democracy. From 2012 to 2015, 2,400 posts were removed in the municipal care of the elderly, i.e. in the years when the Social Democracy was in power. With this financial bill, funding will be allocated to 1,000 new SOSU assistants. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht was very much concerned about the elderly in his rapporteur's speech. If you were to be older in this country, what would you rather be exposed to? The removal of 2,400 posts or the provision of funds for 1,000 new ones? What provides the best care for the elderly in social democracy's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083809	In fact, I believe that the elderly would have preferred the Danish People's Party to have ensured that more than 1,000 posts in the care of the elderly arrived, and Mr. Jep Jakobsen also knows that if the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party had sat together at a negotiating table, we would probably also have managed to lift the overall framework. Unfortunately, however, it was not possible to change that, among other things. Because some tax concessions have been granted in connection with this year's Finance Act, where we must say that the money would have been better spent, among other things. Health and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083842	Sir. Jep Jakobsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083844	You can set up a lot of hypothetical situations. On the basis of the amendments tabled by the Social Democrats, what has been given priority by the Social Democrats is, of course, among other things. 1 billion kr. extra per year for more immigrants, for more integration efforts. Are they 33 billion? kr. spent a year, not enough in the eyes of the Social Democratic Party? Instead, could that money not be invested in more care for the elderly? Is there not something wrong with the priorities of the Social Democratic Party here, if you really talk about the fact that you want it to be well-being?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083916	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083917	The pool that Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen refers to is the pool that we have set aside for vulnerable citizens. After all, there have been quite a few more of them, and we have just been talking about the ceiling on cash benefits. It is true that we are improving integration, in other words, in order to get rid of some of the parallel social activities that we unfortunately have different challenges in society, and then it is an increase in social mobility. That's what we're putting this pool together. Of course, one may disagree with the fact that there are imbalances in society that need to be corrected, but we think, as I said, that this is essential and we would like to give priority to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083951	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222083954	Thank you. Now we are standing here on 22 December and having to deal with both the second and the third budget legislation, and it is after a process in which we have witnessed one of the government's own parties threatening to vote against the government's Finance Act. This means that I cannot help asking the Social Democratic Party whether the Social Democracy sufficiently appreciated the Enhedslisten as a parliamentary basis for the Thorning Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084028	In relation to the current course of one of the governing parties, one can only crush the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084045	Thank you for that, thank you for those nice words. But enough about it and for it a little more serious. After all, the rapporteur had a discussion on the savings in education just now with Mr Beazley. Martin Lidegaard, and it is clear that the Social Democrats' proposal now does not put an end to the harvester in education. Is it to be understood that in future we will not promise to eliminate the green harvester in the whole field of education?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084122	We are opposed to the general saving on research and training. It is also clear that with the limited framework within the negotiating reserves for this year's financial law, priority will have to be given. We have given priority to education, especially vocational training. That is what we consider to be the main priority, but it is not an expression of how a future government led by the Social Democratic Party, with the support of the Enhedslisten, is going to shape its financial laws in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084154	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084158	Thank you. As an educational rapporteur, we have at times been somewhat depressed during this period of government, because there has been a philosophy in the government that all new initiatives, at least as many as possible, should be financed by young people and students. First, historical savings were made on training; then, some of the very important discounts on young people's transport were removed; and now we can read in the government base of the new government of VLAK that one also imagines that one has to make a major SU reform. So, first you took and saved on the training courses, and then you took the discount on the transport, and now you will also take the benefits of the young people or at least save on them. What does the Social Democracy really think about the government's plans to increase labour supply by making a major SU reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084248	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084250	We are looking at this with great amazement, and it has to be said that some of what we have been talking about surprisingly a little about all this autumn has been the very large pool of potential savings that the government has not really wanted to lift the veil of 5.25 billion. kr. in savings which are apparently expected to be able to finance some tax relief in the tax plan, which may not even come in the new year. There is a lot of doubt as to what is really in it. It is clear that we have been thinking about things, among other things. in the area of unemployment benefits and the SU area, as Mr. Jacob Mark mentions, and various other areas. In fact, it is a bit of an electoral deception that the Finance Minister has not said quite clearly: these are the government's concrete proposals for financing. I would go so far as to say that this would not have happened in the time of the former Minister of Finance, in other words in Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Claus Hjort Frederiksen's time as finance minister. There, it would have been clear what it was that it was necessary to finance what was proposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084406	Here you go, sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084408	Thank you. I agree that it has been a completely absurd process when one has not been able to find out what it really is, so great a saving contains. So I actually just want to hear: when the time comes and the government finally reveals who it is that has to pay the bill, whether it is the students or the recipients of benefits, can S and SF and the others who want to join, stand together in the fight against such huge savings for some who have already been hit hard in the last few years?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084440	I mean, if that situation arises, Jacob Mark says that the SF is ready to provide major tax cuts, which are financed by it, it will surprise me incredibly much. I believe that neither the SF nor the Social Democratic Party will be invited to the closed party that the current government and its support party have and which I understand is now postponed to the new year. It is to be hoped that they will sleep well over Christmas, because I have to say that there is not much of what is going on that looks very sensible either in terms of funding or, for that matter, in terms of the things they intend to spend the money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084517	Thank you. And maybe we should ask for a little more tranquillity back there. I can see that there are some rapporteurs who are very happy to hear what is happening up here and who are not really able to do so because there is too much noise in the back. Then it's mr. Hans Andersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084533	Thank you. Today there is a very fine story in Berlingske Tidende about a 39-year-old Laila Brauer who has come to work. She has previously been 7 years on cash benefits, now she has entered work 20 hours a week as a caregiver. She's really happy about that. I shall then ask the Social Democrat rapporteur whether I can understand that it is untimely and not fair that Laila Brauer should not be allowed to have a little more in the payroll; for I have to understand that the Social Democrats do not support tax cuts for ordinary Danes like Laila Brauer, who work and which we in the Left would like to give a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084635	It is very nice that Mrs Laila Brauer has come to work. I would like to congratulate her on that, not least because she is thus out of public support and of the system which is highly suspicious of many people. After all, the whole employment system has different challenges in this direction. But the most important thing is that she gets to work. And that is why I am very surprised that the government, as part of its financing of the business package, has chosen to cut the employment effort quite significantly. Because it doesn't help much for those who are still trapped in the cash aid system if they can't get proper help to get to work. There may be some who need rehabilitation or something else to get into the labour market. If you cut there, it doesn't help them very much, for example. has given some quite significant tax concessions to the 1,000 most wealthy Danes with the business package. Well, it seems to be quite counterproductive. And then you have to remember that you actually get a gain by getting to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084748	Sir. Hans Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084750	Thank you. Now, sir. Benny Engelbrecht for half an hour stood and answered all the questions that have been asked. Sir. Martin Lidegaard asked a question... there were no answers. Questions have been asked about how much money has been allocated to the municipalities. Now I asked a specific question about Mr. Benny Engelbrecht thinks it's untimely and not fair that Laila Brauer should have a little more out of going to work and there was no answer at all. But I have to understand that the policy of the Social Democratic Party is that it is more important to give tax cuts to companies, as stated in the draft Social Democratic Finance Act this year, than to ensure that Laila Brauer can keep a little more of her own money.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084839	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084840	If we just take what kind of tax relief the very best-off gets in the government's proposal together with the Danish People's Party, then it is 157,500 DKK, which is the immediate annual tax relief. And it seems a little strange that what we are talking about is whether a person who has just gained a profit from getting to work should have a little bit more profit. Well, the important thing here is that we start by looking at what society needs: it is a welfare promise, and that is that we ensure that more people get to work. And we do this first and foremost by investing in our common education and training, in our joint employment efforts. I do not see that any of what the government is proposing will solve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084928	Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222084931	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I think it was Bertolt Brecht who said that the truth is concrete, i.e. implied: we are not assessing people by what they say, but by their actions. I was reminded of this in relation to the question from Mrs Louise Schack Elholm about the growth of municipal budgets in relation to the close welfare. After all, welfare played a part in the rapporteur's speech. If we now take welfare as the close welfare, i.e. municipal budgets, welfare as the regional budgets of health care, is it not true that, in the purely governmental years that the previous government had, the budgets were historically low within the municipalities and regions of the economic agreements concluded by the country's then management, which were from the party from which the rapporteur is from?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085033	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085036	Sir. Carl Holst is very concerned about looking back. I can actually understand that, because what is the truth is that with the financial bill that lies, less attention will be given to welfare, which is what is needed in relation to demographic trends. So I understand that one is so concerned about looking back to a time when Mr. By the way, Carl Holst himself was partly responsible for the negotiations that were taking place. So if sir... Carl Holst thinks it went badly, among other things. in the regions, at that time, and I think there were many citizens in the Region of Southern Denmark who thought, in other words, that Mr. Carl Holst could have done a little better in his time. Carl Holst himself to assess.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085116	Thank you. Is there another question? You just have to remember to get in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085124	I am sorry to the President-in-Office of the Council. It was not the President who missed anything, but I was so shocked by the answer that I forgot to print it because I didn't actually get an answer. Characteristic of the whole debate, the answers have been attacks on attacks or a speech around them. It was purely a factual question I asked. The truth is concrete; it is not what you promise, say or do, but what you act and do. Therefore, I just silently regard the strange attack as an expression of the fact that you dare not tell the truth. Yes, the growth of close welfare, the growth of health care was historically low under the former Socialist government. I'm just putting that up as a fact in terms of assessing the kind outpourings of speech about what you want for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085218	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085220	I'd like to say that if Mr. Carl Holst sees the statements I made here on the platform as an attack, I think. Carl Holst has forgotten what it's like to be at ringrider lunch in South Jutland with the spot and spe that can come in this connection. But that does not change the fact that, if we take the concrete approach, we can see that the amendments tabled by the Social Democratic Party to this year's Finance Act will, overall, strengthen welfare more than the government is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085251	Thank you. Then it's mr. Preben Bang Henriksen, Left. Here you go. Preben Bang Henriksen No, it's a mistake). Well, actually, no one else has asked for the floor. Then we shall have a new rapporteur, and that is Mr Seligman, thank you to the rapporteur. René Christensen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222085326	Thank you for that, President. Then we are here for the third reading of the 2018 Finance Act, and that is very welcome. When you look at the Finance Act, I think it is a very good financial law. I also think it is good, socially balanced, and it shows where we, the Danish People's Party and the government, can find each other. It is the case that we have attached great importance to the fact that it should be a financial law which also takes account of welfare areas, and we think that we have succeeded very well in doing so. It is also the case that a financial law will always have been created in a debate where one finds one another. That is why there are good things in a financial law, and there are also things that have been agreed. One of the things that we, among other things, are... has agreed to abolish the tax on free telephone. There are some people here who might say: 'Well, isn't this a top tax credit, because there are some people who pay top tax who have a free phone?' That is true, but if you look at who actually has a free phone, you will see that the majority of citizens who have free telephones are actually on the other end. They don't actually pay the majority don't pay top taxes. In fact, we expect in future too that it will be the case with the free telephone system that it will be a reward. This means that it will be the auto mechanic, it will be the carpenter, it will be others who will be able to get free telephones in connection with the pay packages being made. It is an agreement that we have, of course, made with the government and that we are aiming for and think is quite good. Other things in the Finance Act: The Finance Act is the 2018 budget, and of course there are big things, and there are smaller things. One of the things in the field of foreigners on which there are actually a great deal of points on which I would like to mention is the point where we have to look at those who go home, among other things. on vacation. In the Danish People's Party we find it strange that we are actually a little puzzled that you can be a fugitive in a country because you have to have a stay and protection, and yet go on holiday in your home country. That is why we are very pleased that money is now being put off, so that we can actually take up 800 cases backwards and see how it can be that these people have been able to stay in their home country for a shorter or longer period of time and then still live up to the requirement of residence and protection in Denmark. We look forward to these cases being taken out and verified. Of course, the area of education also fills something in the context of the Finance Act. One of the minor things in this area is the production school service. I believe that everyone has seen that the production schools have been under a lot of pressure lately, which is why I am very pleased that we have managed to bring the FGU service to the production schools, so it applies from 2018. Why has it been important for the Danish People's Party? It is because we have also reached an agreement on the FGD, that is to say preparatory initial training, which we look forward to very much. This is where we believe that the production schools must be a key element, among other things. In this reform, and that is why we hope that the fact that we have now brought forward this school allowance will mean that in the next year more pupils will enter the production schools so that we can retain the teachers' and the skills that are in the production schools. Another thing, which is a far, far bigger thing, is that we have a permanent housing job scheme. We appreciate that. Now we no longer have to run zigzag course, so you have to hurry to make improvements on your property, because it may be that the housing job scheme will disappear again next year. We are very pleased that the government announced that there should be a service allowance. On the other hand, we are also very pleased that the craft sector has now also been included and that a deduction of up to DKr 12 000 can now be obtained. per adult over 18 years of age in a household. That's really positive. At the same time, we have added a new part. This is among other things. Something like painting. One of the things that is also involved is that we will have increased control at the Danish border. When we say the Danish border, we actually mean all border crossings. It has been the case in the past that there have been ten border crossings on which little attention has been paid. There will be now. Money has been set aside for us to now have license plate checks at all border crossings in Denmark. We have had the money set aside to make a significant improvement in the manning of the small border crossings as well. This means that there will be checks at the border, including at the small border crossings, including with people. At the same time, it will also happen now that we will have just a second anniversary for the temporary border control that we will have some decent working conditions for the state employees who stand and do the good job of looking after our border. It is the case that money is now being set aside so that we can, of course, have cover for the benefit of those working outdoors. We have also got money set aside to get some buildings that you can sit in and do this passport control and other kind of control that is going to happen at the border. We're really happy about that. We simply could not be familiar with the working conditions anymore. More cops are coming, too. Money has been set aside for a significant increase in admission to the police school. This means that in the future, with the Finance Act made for 2018, 300 more officers will be in addition to what was provided for in previous agreements. In the area of the elderly, and this is the close welfare situation, we have had half a billion people set aside every year. And we must remember that half a billion people are going to be on top of the dignity billions that are already there. This also means that the Finance Act for 2018 is the Finance Act for the last 10 years, where the most money has been set aside for the elderly area. And why is that? There is, of course, because we live longer, we grow older and there are also more caring elderly people. That is why we are very pleased that we have again managed to get more money into that area. At the same time, there is also an experimental system in the area of the elderly, with more self-determination. It is true that even if you get older, you have an opinion on what you want. I think there are many people who have participated in the municipal election campaign who have seen something like food take up a lot. I think it's a little forgetting that it takes up so much for the elderly. We know it from ourselves. Who doesn't share in having a Friday dinner with the family and others, where food matters a lot? Eating is a special situation. Why is it that the elderly do not have a higher degree of self-determination compared to what they want to eat and what they want to use? That is why 25 million dollars are now being set aside. kr. in the year, the municipalities can offer in relation to making some experimental schemes, where the money like follows the elderly, i.e. the elderly have the opportunity to decide for themselves what kind of food they want, in relation to the offer made by the municipality, or perhaps the offer made by the local butcher. We also set aside money to look at how to reduce absenteeism. We have been able to see that sick leave is high in the area of the elderly. That's why part of this 500 million goes. kr., the half billion, also to look at how to get more full-time employees in the public sector, especially in the area of the elderly. Because you can talk about hourly prices and wages and all sorts of other things... it's being negotiated right now... but the challenge is, of course, if you only get hired in 32 hours or less. Then it can be difficult to make it run around, and therefore there are some of these positions that are difficult to get occupied they are not very attractive. Then we'd like to look at what it is we get for this money. What are we gonna get for this 45 billion? DKK to be used in 2018 in the elderly area? We do not just want to talk about the fact that money has now been dropped. We would like to measure what service the elderly are experiencing. What is it they're experiencing out there really close? What are the staff experiencing? Are they allowed to use their professional skills? What kind of stay do relatives experience that their elderly have at a care center or for that matter in their own home? We look forward very much to the negotiations that are to take place and, of course, we also hope that something that is broadly anchored can be done, that is, how we measure forward-lookingly in relation to the area of the elderly and, as a general rule, in the municipal areas. Today we have what is called index 100. That means if you spend the money, you're good. Index 100 is only an average consideration, compared to how much money you spend in an area, and when you spend an average amount of money, you have a good service. I just want to say to you that I think there are a lot of people who experience that if you look at the municipalities, even the municipalities where you are above index 100, you might find some who don't think it's the best service that you have. So we look forward very much to the negotiations that need to be held on this. That is precisely why money has been set aside to relieve the relatives, which we are extremely pleased about. We have to say that becoming demented has become a people's disease. You also live long with your dementia, and many want to be in their own homes, and the relatives want that too. However, there is a need sometimes to relieve the next of kin, not the demented one, but also to allow the next of kin to have a dignified elderly life, even if they are not ill or otherwise dependent. Similarly, additional money has been set aside for the area of social dumping or equal competition. It is the case that the money that is now being set aside for the area is at the level of what was in 2016 • it is 11 million. kr. higher than it was in 2017. And we have looked at it in that way that we would actually have liked to have made such a flat model, where you had said that now you have a base for the control pressure that needs to be, and then you could turn up and down, in relation to whether you have a boom or a recession. It has not succeeded. I have also had several meetings with, among others. The trade union movement and others on how to turn a model like this together. There are several different ways to do this, and we have not yet reached the goal. How can you do the good way to do it so we don't have this stop and go, compared to what kind of control pressure we're gonna have out there? But for 2018 it looks really good, there we can maintain a high control pressure, also in relation to what we call social dumping or equal competition. For that is the problem: it is a competitive parameter where the lowest common denominator can win, i.e. if you have poor pay and working conditions. So all in all it is a very good financial law, which we in the Danish People's Party are proud of.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090338	Thank you for that, and then we start with questions and comments. First, it's sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090346	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I am sorry to have to spend time on this again, but it seems almost as a recurring tradition that when we are dealing with the financial law of the year, we will have to reaffirm each other in relation to the Togfonden DK, and unfortunately that is again this year, because we have a government which, although in the immediate year of effect 2018, incorporates the elements agreed by the train fund circle but does not incorporate it in the years of estimates. So I'd really like to ask that Mr. René Christensen here in the Danish Parliament confirms that the agreements we have agreed on, for example. A path over Funen is also something that is also going to happen, despite the fact that we have a government which, unfortunately, is reluctant to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090442	I can confirm that this is the case, and I can also guarantee that the Danish People's Party is in line with the train fund agreement. Of course, it is a pity when there is such a significant majority who has made an agreement on public transport, the Train Fund DK, a fully funded train fund that has been a challenge in relation to it, but it has succeeded in getting it fully financed with a re-adjustment that the government does not want to enter into such a good settlement as has actually been made about the Train Fund DK. There is no doubt that the Train Fund DK actually also contributes widely to what we want, that is to say to electrify society. A large part of the Togfonden DK's money actually goes to electrification, and that is actually one of the things the government agrees with. So again a call for the government to enter into the agreement on the Train Fund DK. That would make everything a lot easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090527	Following on from that, unfortunately, I also have to say that it seems that during the years of the estimates, the government has misinterpreted some of the disposal that is in relation to the funds that must come from the conciliation circle, which is called "Better and cheaper', and which the government is not part of either. That's where I'll just ask Mr. Knox. René Christensen, about Mr. René Christensen will help us to clarify the inaccuracies which appear to be in relation to the estimates and the funding elements, so that there is no doubt about the projects that lie in the better and cheaper areas, nor the projects that lie in the Togfonden DK, which are to be financed by them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090609	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090611	There is no doubt that the adjustments that may be needed will of course be very much in the interests of the Danish People's Party, both with the Conciliation Committee on the Train Foundation DK, but certainly also with the government, so that we can make the agreements that have been made across parties come into effect, and there is no doubt that the partial agreement that was made, that is Part 1 of the Train Fund DK, is to be implemented. There was so little funding; there were some sections that became a little more expensive, and there it has been financed from •Better and cheaper • which are also outside the government, and there we must of course comply with the agreements that we have made. It is so fine with the Train Fund DK and •Better and cheaper • that if you cannot reach an agreement in a memorable way, you can always vote it through. But we really do not want to do that in the Danish People's Party; of course we want to do this in a memorable way, that is to say we want to make the adjustments that are needed to make everything work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090656	Thank you. Then it's mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090700	Thank you. And thank you for a speech which emphasises that it is not a either or, but a boat-and-a-boat when it comes to securing money for core welfare and also ensuring that we can make agreements that strengthen business conditions, lighten the tax for people who go to work • well illustrated by Mr. René Christensen's talk about free phone. There is a clear speech. It has been a little more unclear when we have heard the Social Democracy, including in the previous round. It is rather unclear what they really think about the ceiling on cash benefits and the benefits of integration. However, it could perhaps be a little enriching for the debate if the Danish People's Party would make their assessment of the consequences of abolishing the ceiling on cash benefits and abolishing the integration benefit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090748	That would be an additional cost of 1.4 billion. This is something we can see because it is an amendment tabled by the SF. There you can see what you are facing if you want a different color majority. Social democracy has amendments here, which are in the billions class in relation to integration. The SF has proposed an increase in expenditure in relation to the cash benefits ceiling and the integration benefit of 1.4 billion. kr. So there you can see what the pressure of expenditure is going to be. And what you don't talk about much is: what is the money to be spent on? In the Danish People's Party we would very much like to talk about how there should be money for welfare forward towards 2025, but we also want to talk about what the money should be spent on. And these areas aren't the ones we want to spend the money on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090831	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090834	Thank you. But there is also the fact that by means of the ceiling on cash benefits and the benefit of integration it is better to work. And, of course, I think that my colleague Mr. Hans Andersen gave us a brilliant example: it was hard to get an answer from the Socialist rapporteur. That's why I'm just concerned that the Danish People's Party stands at the cash benefits ceiling, and I know that but also that we have a common understanding of ensuring that the next element of the job reform is to help ensure that it pays more to make an extra effort and that those in the labour market also get a bigger carrot out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090914	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090916	Well, the Danish People's Party doesn't mind that it's worth working. Of course we don't. We want work to pay off. That is why, when looking at the ceiling on cash benefits, one must also say that this was one of the reasons for it; there were too many who did not have an opportunity to gain an increase in profits by going to work. At least it was only a small increase in profits. And then you have to remember that there's a lot of things that are exempt from this ceiling, and that's one of them. children's and young people's benefits, etc. So this is not a ceiling that hits children's families and others, but it is a ceiling where you have said: what is the amount you need to be able to work for a shorter period when you are on transfer income? And that is why, of course, we are on the target of the agreements that we have concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090955	Thank you. Mrs. Stine Brix, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222090959	Thank you. Some of those who really pay the bill in the finance agreement signed by the Danish People's Party with the government are the young people. There are savings for many billions of dollars in education in the Finance Act. You take 2%. Every year on our degree programmes. It will mean layoffs in high schools, it will mean larger teams, it will mean the abandonment of education and training programmes, it will mean educating students, it will mean nursing students, it will apply all around. When we had the opening debate in here, Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the platform, that the Danish People's Party was very concerned about securing the economy of vocational education and training, and he promised that this would be looked at. But the fact is that there are savings on vocational training next year of 100 million. kr. After all, we have tabled an amendment together with the rest of the opposition, and there is a very good opportunity here for the Danish People's Party to keep the promise made, namely to secure the economy of vocational training so that you do not have to fire next year. I would therefore like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party: what is the position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091114	It is a proposal that we are voting against because we have concluded a financial agreement. But what is important here is to say that it is absolutely correct that there is a 2% saving in vocational schools, and that is 270 million. kr. It is the case that the 2018 Finance Act has put a pool of 170 million in 2018. kr. The 20 million. kr. They are then set aside for increased recruitment, because this is also one of the challenges facing schools. It is not only the savings, but, of course, it is quite hard • it is also the customer base, if you can put it that way, i.e. there are fewer young people who choose vocational training. This is because you come from a very high level, since you had a very large number of pupils in the past, because there was a training requirement and no admission requirements for vocational schools. Today, fortunately, I would like to say, there is a demand for 2 plus 2 in Danish and mathematics, but it also means that the customer base, i.e. the number of pupils, has decreased significantly. We have then written into the Finance Act agreement that in the first half of 2018 we shall evaluate it with the 2%. and look at how we are going to do it in the future. There I would like to say that we in the Danish People's Party want the 2%. We must be removed, but we also want to have a quality in vocational schools and that vocational schools must go beyond the ramp in order to provide pupils for vocational schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091226	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091228	If you wait until 1⁄2 years to evaluate, that's the reality. That is why the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has nothing to do with talking and talking about all sorts of things here, because the reality is hard on vocational training. If we do not think better here today and vote in favour of the amendment which would remove the 100 million saving. The Danish People's Party's Finance Act agreement here will significantly reduce our vocational training. And this may most seriously mean that some young people will be deprived of the opportunity to get an education that really is what will make a big difference in their lives in relation to what income they can get, what future they can have. This is what is at stake here when the Danish People's Party saves on vocational training with the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091326	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091328	Yes, one might wonder, because the vocational schools were also out to comment that 170 million had been set aside. kr., and that it didn't help anything. And if 170 million... kr. Is nothing, is 100 million. kr. I guess nothing at all, and it must be easy to find. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, finding 100 million affects schools. kr. during that period, of course it does. But it is the case that they have been budgeted for finding 270 million. kr. Now they need to find a significantly smaller amount so that the budgets they have put in for 2018 will be easier to hold. But the biggest challenge for schools at the moment is not really the 2% savings. The biggest challenge at the moment is in fact that there are too few pupils who choose the vocational school for. I just want to say that the pupils who have to choose the vocational school are not looking at what kind of budget it is for 2018. They are looking at: what are the chances that I can complete an education? What's this offer coming? What kind of youth institution am I supposed to start?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091419	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091422	Thank you to the rapporteur. One of the things that is of great concern to the Danish People's Party, and which is of great concern to all of us, is the number of refugees around the world and also those who reach Denmark here. My question then goes on, since we now know that there are really a lot of climate refugees in the future and there are already many climate refugees in the world.How can it be that the Danish People's Party does not help to push more so that the government will pursue a more green and climate-friendly policy, both here in Denmark as a pioneer country, but also in the world, in terms of helping to create green and technological solutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091501	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091502	Well, I think we do, too. Now I mentioned before the Togfonden DK and other things, and I know that the government is not part of it, but I represent the Danish People's Party, and we will actually electrify the whole railway. If there is anything that does anything about the climate, then it is then that we get all our diesel trains away. We have just reached an agreement with the government on the housing job scheme, where you can see that the private household is now being given the opportunity to renovate energy and other things. Oh, yeah, well, the green stuff fills something, too. Being green is not just about giving subsidies to wind turbines, for example; it is also about how we each as individual individuals perceive and use the resources that are out there, and there it also matters how our homes are heated, how we have isolated our homes, etc. So yes, there are certainly also green initiatives in the 2018 Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091546	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091548	Now I think it is a pity that a green housing job scheme has been transformed into what I would call a black housing job scheme, which has just taken away the incentive that, in order to get a refund, it should go exclusively to green energy renovation. However, it is not true that the government has made massive investments in green energy, as we would like. Yes, we fully support the Train Fund DK, but I find it problematic that the Danish People's Party, which has such great power over the government, does not press significantly more to make green and climate-friendly solutions through the Finance Act. After all, it is for the Folketing to create the framework for us, as a population, to be able to do the right thing easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091637	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091638	It is true that you can have many different approaches to what to include in a financial law. We now think, when we look at the green one to keep it going, that this finance law also contains it finely, among other things. in connection with the housing job scheme. It is true that there are things that have been tampered with and that some adjustments have been made, also in relation to what you can deduct, but when we looked at what had been used and how many had used these green measures, we could see that there was a very limited use of it. That is why we have chosen to focus on what was actually used, and that is among other things. such things as insulation tasks and other things. There we can see that the repayment period, and hence also the green accounting, is moving very well in relation to the measures that can be deducted for today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091718	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091720	Although it has been a hard birth, the child is usually enjoyed anyway, and I suppose that is what Mr. René Christensen's speech today reflects. There is, of course, much of the usual that has been on the other financial laws, namely savings on training in favour of prioritising some things that people may think look a little more backward than forward, and that could, for example, be done. be a priority for border controls. But the thing about saying that the Danish People's Party gives priority to the past more than the future is perhaps a little unfair criticism. At any rate, in the context of the Financial Law Agreement, I have found a place where I think what it says is really innovative, and that is what is at issue with the riding police, which was not mentioned in the speech. But it says, among other things, that with the deployment of the riding police, the horses can help to deescalate a dangerous situation by talking to people and acting as a broker, and so, this talking horse thing, there is an incredibly much future in, I believe. People are going to be used in the health sector, people are going to be used in the elderly and for the riding police and border police, and what do I know? That is why I would just like to ask whether the Danish People's Party sometimes thinks about where all these people should come from, because we already lack labour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091836	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091838	There is no doubt about that. This is actually one of the challenges: how do we get these people to do these jobs? And it's the same when we talk SKAT. If someone says they want 1,000 employees, then somebody else says they have to have 1,200 employees, but it's not just someone you pull in a vending machine. Now it is so with regard to the question of the riding police that I can answer that we are very pleased that the riding police are now being reinstated, and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, it is actually a very good tool, which is also available in other countries, and among other things. In Sweden, it is a great pleasure to have the riding police, for example. in connection with football and other events in the event of a riot. There is also no doubt that the running police is also an image-making force for the police, and we think that the police also need to have such positive elements, and the riding police can contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091920	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222091922	Well, all honor and respect for it. It means less, of course, that the Copenhagen Police does not seem to have the same assessment as the Danish People's Party, but they should not decide that, if you may say so. You're the one who's controlling what the money's going to do, and then the police have to solve it with the tools you're equipping them with. But even if you get the talking horses going and maybe they can be used in many places around, it is still so that it seems that the Danish People's Party believes that we are the ones we should be in Denmark; that was it, Mr. Martin Henriksen said the other day. If companies lack labour, that's just too bad; if the nursing homes lack employees, then it's just too bad for the elderly; and if the police lack riders for the riding police, then it's just too bad, because we are who we are. How can we solve the challenge of labour shortages if we are who we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092007	Thank you. And here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092010	Well, if you look at the unemployment figures within the EU's borders, for example. If we take a trip to Spain and Italy, we will see that there is a lot of labour to get within Europe's borders. And it is striking that the Radicals believe that the best skilled labour one can get is people who come from war-torn areas; that people who have ptsd and other, and who have fled and come all the way to Denmark, are the best labour one can get. But wasn't it an idea to help those people so they don't have to go on that long, long journey, that is to say help them in their vicinity, instead of believing and claiming that it should be the best skilled labour one gets to Denmark? It is not the best qualified labour force. It is people who have had a long journey to Denmark, and it is not they who are needed in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092047	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092051	Thank you. The rapporteur, or the horse whisperer, whether you will be criticized in his speech, has tabled an amendment to abolish the ceiling on cash benefits. He certainly said that there is a difference between what we give priority to spending the money on. That is why I would like to say a small thank you for the fact that the massive, historic tax cuts we heard about did not materialise this time. It may well be something in January, but now we have to see. But there are also some cracks in this Finance Act and in the agreements that are in line with it. How is it related to DF's profile that you have created a business package in which 90% of the employees are employed. of the population gets less than DKK 200. And the richest 1,000 gets almost 80,000 kroner, and then also this free phone deal, how far does most of the money go to top tax payers? What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092152	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092154	I would just like to say that it is simply factually wrong. In fact, in relation to the free telephone agreement, the majority of people with free telephones today are those who earn below the top tax limit. When you are taxed by DKr 2,800, there is a relatively high tax rate, and it is now being removed for the future • you can also ask in relation to the DKr 2,800.: How much is a phone today, how much does it cost to have a subscription today, how much does it cost to call today? But it's 48 percent. of those who have free telephones that pay top tax, which means that there is a majority of those who have free telephones that do not pay top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092244	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092245	Thank you. In other words, there is an answer from the tax minister, who says that two thirds of the free-phone prize is paid to top tax payers. But we can keep going. The fact is that the tax relief provided for in the agreements which lay down the Finance Act has a clearly crooked profile. I just have to ask the rapporteur something again. On behalf of the rapporteur, Mr von der Vring (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Hans Kristian Skibby has said that you must take the sweet with the sour or the sour with the sweet. However, DF has still put away votes to a Finance Act that gives some of the most skewed tax concessions in recent times according to a large number of economists and experts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092330	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092332	I am not going to stand up for the claim that this is a very, very skewed financial law. It certainly isn't. It is a financial law that reflects the fact that there is a government that has some priorities, and then there is a support party, the Danish People's Party, which has some priorities. And there we have found each other, and I would like to say that we can measure up to everything in this Finance Act. There are of course some things that you can say have not been wishes that the Danish People's Party has had, but we have of course adjusted it so that we can measure it both in relation to the business package, but certainly also in relation to the other things that have come into the Finance Act. Then I would like to point out that something that has meant something for the Danish People's Party, among others. That is the fact that the elderly are now being raised, and for the first time in ten years we have the largest amount of money ever, among other things. to the elderly area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092416	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092419	For 61,000 Danes it doesn't pay to go to work. They are affected by an accident at work or by an occupational disease which makes them wholly or partly unfit for work. It costs society 84 billion. kr., money that goes out to something we all wanted to save. Why on earth does the Danish People's Party agree to cut the Danish Labour Inspectorate again next year and again in 2019? 14 posts will go next year, 16 posts will go there in 2019. What is the point of that when we have been promised by Mr. Bent Bøgsted and from Mrs Marlene Harpsøe time and again throughout the fall that this will not happen? Why did this happen?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092501	Looking at the money that is being set aside for combating social dumping or for equal and fair competition, it is in fact the case that we are now at the level that was in 2016. We're kind of adding money to the area. There'll be 11 million. kr. more to the area than there was in 2017. If you look at the figures that were for 2015 and that's probably the figure that you're assuming at Enhedslisten... then there were some very special cases where we had some big pools that peaked in 2015. But the level that will be in 2018 is higher than what was in 2017. I fully agree with the first part of the rapporteur's speech here, namely that this is an important area. We must have the Labour Inspectorate because of two things, both to have a proper working environment for those who are out there and, of course, also because we must have proper and fair and fair competition when companies invite in.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092549	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092550	That's not true. The Labour Inspectorate's part, which ensures that accidents at work and occupational diseases are prevented, is reduced. 40 posts have been cut this year, 14 posts will be cut next year, 16 posts will be cut in 2019. You can't get around that, it's in your own material. The Danish People's Party has promised to prevent this, at least in the next two years. This has not been done, but the cuts in labour inspectorate staff with a total of 30 posts have been accepted over the next two years. Then we cannot do preventive work if that is the way we are going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092627	I would say this: what the Danish People's Party has done is that we have looked at what kind of economy it is that has been in relation to social dumping. And when we look at the economy that has been in relation to social dumping, we can see that in 2018 we are adding an additional 11 million to the area. kr., which means that we have a higher level in 2018, than we had in 2017, and that we are at the same level we were at in 2016. And I would like to say that when I have talked to those who work with it, they are actually quite happy with this. They are actually quite happy that we are reaching this high level that we were at in 2016 and that we can, of course, keep a high control pressure in relation to the companies that work out there, also in view of the fact that we have so many state projects going on, i.e. around super hospitals, Storstrømbro etc. etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092714	Thank you. Then it's mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092717	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. In fact, some of what fills a part, regardless of how you turn it and what words you put on it, is sort of the order of things, as we want them executed. It can be said that the Social Democrats and a large part of the red bloc believe that welfare comes first, and if there is money left over, we can talk about tax cuts. In fact, the Blue Block has just the opposite order: tax breaks come first, and when they are given, we can see if there is any money for welfare. If the rapporteur should now say how the Danish People's Party views this question, how does the rapporteur view it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092807	Well, there we are in the field where we are, and this is not the Finance Act, but the negotiations we are about to embark on now, about the room for manoeuvre that is up to 2025 we would like to start by taking into account the welfare, that is, this demographic trait that is, at 0.65 or 0.7 per cent, and that is to say, the 25 or 26 billion. kr. We should like to discuss tax relief first and say that they are available, and what remains is that we should like to discuss. The tax cuts that need to be made must then be at the bottom, and we would like to discuss them as well, and it will then be with the government that the room for manoeuvre can be increased if savings can be found elsewhere. Thirty-three billion dollars are spent. kr. Every year on non-Western immigration, and if that figure comes down, of course it puts some money at risk, and one can then discuss whether they should go to increased welfare beyond the 26 billion. I should like to ask whether they should go for tax relief or otherwise, and that is, of course, the debate that we would like to take with the government in that case.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092854	Sir. Nick Hækkerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092856	I am glad of that answer, and I guess that was what I expected. However, when I thought the question was worth raising, it was because I think there are some elements where one can ask oneself whether that is also the way in which the Danish People's Party acts in practice. As the latest example, the other day we had the motion for a resolution that public growth should at least follow the demographic cost pressure, so it is not something about welfare having to grow, but just that we should be able to provide the same welfare in the years to come that we have had in previous years. It was a proposal that the Danish People's Party could not vote in favour of. We have, of course, been talking today about the savings that will be made in vocational training from the financial law that is decided upon. That is why I would just like the rapporteur to give a hand in not voting for tax cuts until the money for welfare is there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092949	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222092952	In any case, I can say that we also need to measure our actions. And if you look at the Finance Act that is due to be voted on here in a few hours, you can see that it actually gives a public growth rate of 1% in 2018. and not just 0.7%. Then, of course, some will say that it is because all the money has not been spent in 2017, and that is actually right, but there is increased welfare in the 2018 Finance Act that lies. And, of course, you can be absolutely certain that it is one of the pillars of the Danish People's Party's policy that when we start some tax negotiations we will also work for it; then we will help to see how welfare is ensured first. But we are not a party against tax relief; we are not against the SOSU helper or carpenter getting a little more out of going to work, and so we would like to talk about how to use the remaining amount to make tax cuts for those who have the least.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093040	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093044	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'd like to follow up on what Nick Hækkerup said. With regard to increasing welfare or increasing public spending, I would like to know, in relation to a defence settlement that is just around the corner, whether it is the case that DF is counting on it in the growth of public spending or whether defence spending is on top of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093112	Thank you. There was just a change of voice here. In fact, I fully agree with what is at stake in the issue of public consumption. In other words, we must first ensure that public consumption can increase. And that is a small, moderate increase that we are talking about. It is not because there are gold taps in all the care centres; it is because we live longer, grow older and become a larger population. Because if there is a boom, more children are born. That means that more day-care institutions are needed and so on, and that is something you have to finance. So it is not a promise, it is really just a question of preserving the welfare society that we know today, and that is what is called individual public consumption. Then there is what is called collective public consumption. And it is true that in it lies among other things. Police and defense, and it's out on the other side. It's kind of divided into two parts, you might say. One part is the individual and that is probably what we all know as the one where we as citizens are users. And then there's the other part where we're of course also users, but it's more in the community's character.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093207	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093211	Thank you. Just to be absolutely sure: If this means that when we are at some point done with the second half of this with a tax agreement, a defence agreement, etc., then the explanation from the Danish People's Party is not that the growth in public consumption is 0.7 per cent. including defence, but that the defence must be added, if I understand the rapporteur correctly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093235	No, it is actually the case, and I also understand that the Social Democratic Party believes that when the Social Democratic Party says that there should be a move of 0.7 per cent. In the future to the demographic trait, you can of course mean it in two ways. If you only take individual public consumption, it is actually 0.71%, and that is 21.7 billion. kr. If you add the amount of public consumption, which is 4.3 billion, then you can add it. kr., you get to the 26 billion. kr. and the 0.65%. So it is probably within the 0.7% that the Social Democratic Party is running with. So we're going with 0.6%, and it's just a little decimal bill up and down, up and down. But there's both in it. But when the Social Democratic Party operates with an amount of 25 billion. kr., I understand that the Social Democratic Party of course also operates with collective public spending, because otherwise you can start to take out a lot; then you have to take out the police, then you have to take out the road network. There's a lot of things you have to pick out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093332	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093335	Thank you. Now the rapporteur said earlier, when Mrs Josephine Fock asked about the green and green ambitions of the Finance Act, that the rapporteur certainly thought there were plenty of them. One of the consequences of the Finance Act is to scrap the green national accounts, which are, after all, a tool that we have in Denmark to measure our development in the green area. So how does the rapporteur think this harmonizes with the green ambitions he himself advocates, that you actually choose to scrap the development and updating of the green national accounts, which is a unique tool we have in Denmark, also to show abroad, and not least the UN, as regards the sustainability objectives, how we are actually developing in the green area?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093421	It could also be that it is because you think about how to spend the money. We talk a lot about warm hands in here all the time, and we're always creating cold hands. Well, we have to measure and weigh everything. We know, of course, no matter where we stand, what benefits the green transition. I'm sorry, I'm saying it, but we really don't have to hire 15, 20, 30 men to write it down on a piece of paper, and then once a year we can sit and measure it and say that we're doing really well, and pat each other on the shoulder. We know what it takes. Then we must also say that when we look at the financial law that is here, it is true that some things have been tampered with, but there are certainly also some things that have been put in. It is also a matter of prioritising how we use the funds. It is not only in the municipalities and out in the regions that they must give priority. We have to do that in the Folketing as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093511	However, we have committed ourselves to 17 UN sustainability targets. In the Paris Agreement, we have undertaken to comply with a maximum temperature increase. Two degrees. So, as a country, we have committed ourselves to a lot of objectives, and then the rapporteur stands by saying that we do not need to be able to measure it, because it is not important. It seems counterproductive to take away what allows us to measure our green development and that the message we go out with in the world is: We want to take the lead in Denmark, but we cannot measure it, so we think it will work. So my question is: how seriously do the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party take the opportunity to say that Denmark is still and remains the green forerunner in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093552	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093554	We take it very seriously that we are a green forerunner. We also take it very seriously that we are doing something about it as well. We would like to do something about it and, of course, we could also document what we are doing, and we can easily do so. Without green national accounts, we can document what we do about it. That is, of course, the priority that lies in it. Well, climate change requires active action.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093619	Thank you. Then it's mr. Per Husted, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093621	Thank you for the floor, and thank you for a speech on a financial law that the rapporteur describes as extremely good. I would just like to come back to the subject of vocational training. We can see that 100 million really are being saved. kr. in vocational education and training. I have read Marlene Harpsøe, Vocational Training Rapporteur for DF, say: "We are not in the goal until the savings have been completely abolished. She'll tell Everything here on December 12th. I would like to know if there is a concrete plan on how to get that money back.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093657	Yeah, and that's what the Finance Act says. During the first half of 2018, we will have to evaluate how it looks at vocational schools, because there are several challenges for vocational schools in addition to the savings. There is also the challenge of too few young people opting for vocational training. We would also like to look at what opportunities there are. It is not because we have to control everything in here from Christiansborg, but I am surprised that there is, for example. there are no more out in the municipalities who put their 10th-class centres in a vocational school in order to provide a better basis for getting pupils over there. I think that a lot of young people may choose the more secure high school. You can also see if you come out to some of the events that are that it is difficult to compete with such a high school, which tells about Friday bar and all the exciting things that happen at a high school, also travels out in the world when you are going to the vocational school to tell you that you have the new lathe. There is a lack of youth culture in vocational schools. There we have said that, in cooperation with a broad circle, in the first half of 2018, we would like to assess how we can help support vocational schools in the future. It is, of course, also our ambition to remove the savings on the 2%, i.e. the last 100 million. kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093800	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093803	I think that vocational schools are also good at offering things other than education and to say that this is also an exciting place to go, so I really do not think that this is where the challenge is. However, we have to note that there are approx. 70,000 young people who are not in education and a large part of that group has historically been able to obtain vocational schools. It's gonna be even harder for them with these savings. How is this part of DF's considerations?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093830	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093831	It is in this way that we take vocational schools very seriously. We are very much in favour of the vocational schools being there, and the vocational schools also have an offer which is extremely important. They are actually training the workforce that is being sought after. At one point the vocational schools had the appeal that there were simply too many pupils who did not have the skills to do so. Their primary school, that is, primary school, had not been good enough. That is why the vocational school reform was carried out, where it was said that students should now at least be able to read and count on level two in Danish and mathematics. It has done so that there are a number of things that do not go to vocational school. Then you would think that the apostasy rates would be almost zero, because that is not the challenge. Unfortunately, they are still not, and that is why I believe that if you take the vocational schools seriously and that is what we in the Danish People's Party are actually demanding a little more than just removing the 2%. It actually requires a greater dialogue, and we will do so in spring 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093918	Then it's Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222093921	The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has now said on several occasions that it is a problem that so few young people choose the vocational school or at least that it would be nice if more people chose to attend the vocational school. And I actually believe that all parties agree with that. But you cut with this financial law, which only comes through because of the votes of the Danish People's Party, 100 million. kr. in vocational schools. And there is no doubt that, of course, 100 million cannot be cut. In other words, it will mean greater teams, it will mean that teachers will have to be fired, and it will probably also mean something in relation to whether new machines can be bought, i.e. in relation to the quality of the training. I have no doubt that this will mean that the chances of getting more young people to choose the vocational school fall. And I think that we are running the risk of more people falling out of it. Because, of course, when you cut 100 million, it reduces the quality. kr. I cannot make it relate to what the rapporteur says. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094034	This is linked to the fact that vocational schools have created a budget in which they have to save 270 million. kr. Now they have to save 100 million. kr., and that means they have 170 million. kr. more in 2018, than they had budgeted for. That's the part of it. But I would also like to say that if you are to take vocational schools seriously, this is not just about 100 million. kr. from or to. Then it's about what kind of challenge the vocational schools are facing, what kind of competition they're in and what it looks like, when we can give these young people greater certainty that they can actually complete their education as well. This is what has been tried with the vocational school reform, but it has not quite succeeded. And that's why there are a lot of young people who choose high school. It's safe, it's relatively easy to choose for, you know what to do for the next 3 years, and you also know when you're done. And when we have to evaluate vocational schools, i.e. in relation to the 2% that we want to get rid of, we are in fact in agreement. We'll probably only do it one year later than Enhedslisten would like to do it, so it won't be in 2018, but from 2019 that the last 100 million. kr. disappear. But it is also about: what vocational schools are we going to have in the future, what are they going to offer, and how are they going to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094143	It is really political logic of the worst kind when you say that cutting 100 million is not so bad. kr., because it had been said that much more needed to be cut. Well, then you can make all the problems in the world go away. Then you can just start by saying that now you do something very, very bad, and then you do it a little less bad, and then you say, "Well, then it's not a problem." Of course it can be felt, I would say to Mr. René Christensen, at our technical schools when you cut 100 million. kr. Of course, quality will suffer. Of course, it will have an impact on the students. And the rapporteur has said over and over again on the platform: more young people should choose the vocational school. The rapporteur says that there is such a competition for pupils. How will vocational schools stand in this competition: better or worse according to the Danish People's Party's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094244	What was striking was that in the Finance Act 2017 it was such that, as a starting point, it was 270 million. kr., and then I didn't actually hear that the vocational schools said something there were no problems at the vocational schools then. There is, of course, a great challenge at vocational schools, which is about something other than money. I recognise, of course, that 100 million. kr. If you can feel it in the vocational schools, of course you can. It's just not just a matter of money. And that's what sometimes goes wrong, that is, that you think you can buy everything for money. You can't always do that. There is, in fact, another challenge here. And, of course, I acknowledge that 100 million. kr. You can feel it. But I am glad that the Danish People's Party has succeeded in getting the 270 million. kr. to be 100 million. kr., i.e. it hurts less at the vocational schools in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094326	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094328	Thank you. I have taken the floor because I would like to draw attention to a mistake which I believe the Danish People's Party has made and which I hope we can rectify as soon as possible. We have been together to create a new preparatory initial training. There we have had a very good cooperation and in that agreement we agreed to increase the school allowance when the new preparatory initial training starts. We have done so both because these students need a decent living basis, but also because we need to get more students to the FGU and away from cash assistance or education aid. In fact, in the Finance Act and praise for it, one has taken into account the fact that one had not withdrawn the school allowance from 2018 and found a solution to it, but one thing has been forgotten. In fact, with the swelling, it has been forgotten to introduce that there will also be a dependent supplement on the raised school allowance as early as 2018. This means that while in 2019, when you make the new FGU, you have a dependent supplement on the school allowance, you do not have it 2018 where otherwise you have already decided to raise the school allowance. This will mean that those parents who could really need this help, and who we agree on needing the help from 2019, will not get that dependent supplement. It is very, very little money, and it is a small group, but it is a small group that needs help seriously. So could we not agree to table an amendment to ensure that this allowance is included when you raise the school allowance?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094455	First of all, it's really a shame that you didn't get this done the first time when you made the FGU agreement and said it was going to apply from 2018. I actually think there are two legs to go on here. One is, in fact, that the pupils should have a dependent base, and the other is that we should be able to retain the teachers' skills and competences in special production schools. It should be remembered that many of them are skilled teachers who then took something educational upstairs, and they are therefore the ones that are being asked for now. At the moment, they can go out and get some pretty good wages. If we do not make sure that there are students in the production schools, can we risk them going out and taking their old jobs as a blacksmith or carpenter back, and are we so sure that we can get them back in 2019 when we have to deploy the FGU? That is why we are very pleased that we have increased the benefit, and we have chosen to do so for the large group, that is to say the young non-parents, and that is what has been set aside. That's right.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094553	However, we have agreed that there should be a dependent supplement, and it has actually been something that the Danish People's Party has been quite active in the fight for, and this has been introduced together with the rest of us for 2019, and that is good. Then you have now chosen to raise school benefits from 2018, which is also good, but now we are in the situation that parents cannot get the extra help as early as 2018, and we are also in the situation that parents can go down to the municipality and ask if they get the most out of being on educational aid or taking a FGU, and get the answer: You get the most out of being on education aid. It's very little money, and we're happy to make ourselves available to find funding for this. Could one not agree to this in an amendment when we raise the school allowance here again in a moment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094637	It is the case that we actually expect the breadwinners who are • and it is true that it is actually not so large a group • also some who have the ability to reflect on the situation they are in. You have to remember that the offer you get, among other things. In fact, at a production school, a quite good offer is both a social offer, but also a training offer in which they are ready to start a qualification training course. We expect that group to see that, even if there is an economic difference between being in a training course and being on passive support, the benefit of being in a training course is great. So there we have simply made the assessment that for a single year it is probably not what makes the big difference. It will do so in the long run, which is why we fully agree that it should of course be there from 2019. But we have simply chosen to say that during this transition period from 2018 to 2019 it is about the second group, and these are the youngest, i.e. those who, to put it a little harshly, may not get reflected so much about what it really is for a value they get from going to the production school. At least it should not be the economic that keeps them away.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094734	Thank you. The last question in this round is Mr. Anders Stjernholm, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094742	In relation to the questions put by Mrs Magdalene Maier, the rapporteur said that we do not need measurements of green development in Denmark because we know what it takes. And that is what I will be happy and optimistic and think: great, what is it that is needed to stop the large climate refugees in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094812	This is not just what is being done in Denmark, it is what is happening on a global scale. What this is also about is that we also have to develop technology, and that is what we are doing in Denmark. I mean, it's not like that when you look at the financial law that's here, because we don't have green national accounts, things stop. Or we can just look at wind energy. Kriegers Flak is a very good example. Now we can see that the next wind farm we get at sea will probably be without public subsidies, which means that things are moving too. Now we are going to work on, and so are we, both in relation to wind and in relation to sun. The next thing that comes is probably geothermal heat, etc. So there is plenty to be done, and there I just want to say that national green accounts do not change that. Then I would like to say that it is not because we are in favour of not measuring this. Of course, we will continue to do so, but it will be on a different scale and in a different way than you would if you had green national accounts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094906	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094908	Well, it is quite true that there are a lot of private initiatives in this area and fortunately for that, especially when the political initiatives lag a little. Now the rapporteur said that we are electrifying our rail network to a greater extent. Why not also push the development of electrification of our car park in the same way?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222094932	We are now not so afraid that it should not come, and there is, of course, talk about why there should be a tax on electric cars. We believe that this should be the case, because this is not the way to take account of a single product. And there it is also the case that what is being proposed is pure electric cars; hybrid cars are, in fact, also a very good and green product. Then why shouldn't they be part of it? So there we are quite in agreement with the situation we are in now, when electric cars are equal to other cars. And you have to say, as with everything else: it's gonna move. The Danish market is not the one that moves electric car production like this worldwide. And when we are not a car-producing country, we have to say that that is probably not what is moving the whole development.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222095013	Thank you. Then we reached through the series of brief remarks to Mr. René Christensen. We thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and move on to the rapporteur of the Left, Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222095027	Thank you. Soon it will ring for Christmas party and a bill of finance that will be passed, accompanied by the President's bell and admitted: We have been waiting. But like every Christmas calendar on television through my childhood has been built up, so much has to be done before it really is Christmas. Christmas is under threat, is it real Christmas this year? And yes, before it is 24 December, you have to go through so much before things get settled, and this year it will be Christmas. Granted, the run-in has been slightly different from in the past. The Drama Basket has got a bit of extra steepness... I think even DR's drama department can be quite jealous... but the result is fortunately the same. It won't be Christmas in the Republic, but it will be Christmas in the Kingdom. Because if you allow yourself to be obsessed with substance and not with process, and we are in the Left, then with this year's financial agreement there is a great deal to be welcomed. In the Left in 2015 we went to elections on four points for the direction we would take in moving Denmark in: We want more private jobs; we want more people to support themselves; we need better core welfare; and we need a consistent and realistic immigration policy. As I said, we need more private jobs, because welfare is and remains a prerequisite for growth and prosperity. That is why we have also made an ambitious agreement on business and entrepreneurial initiatives • an agreement that removes troublesome charges that reduce cross-border trade and encourage investment and facilitates the raising of capital for investment in our businesses. Total 14.7 billion kr. towards 2025 is used to ensure better conditions for our entrepreneurs and attractive conditions for Danish companies. We also make the housing job scheme permanent and a scheme that gives families in Denmark a better opportunity to make everyday life a little easier. It is a system that reduces undeclared work, and we therefore ensure the security of a quite popular system. And yes, we actually promised that before the last election. We facilitate car taxation so that it will be cheaper to get a safe and secure family car, and we ensure the development of infrastructure over Funen, and we ensure lower bridge charges over Storebælt. We are increasing mobility by properly raising the speed limits on selected countries and motorways. This requires an upgrading of the roads, and we are allocating money to that with the Financial Law Agreement. In the Left we want a Denmark in better balance. That is why we have taken a large number of initiatives to support it: we have liberalised the planning law; we have relocated state jobs and more are on the way; we have implemented a food and agriculture package; we have secured better mortgage lending opportunities for the purchase of summer homes; and we have created the broadband pool so that more people can access fast internet, and much, much more. Also with the Finance Act we secure money for a number of good projects around the country that support that development. According to the latest figures, it is 93 out of 98 municipalities that are now making progress in employment and housing prices are rising throughout the country. So it does not just go on talking; we deliver on our political visions. Then more people have to support themselves, and it must pay better to work. Yes, it must actually be easier to be a Dane. That is why we are taking away, among other things. The tax on the free telephone, for many people today, a telephone is a natural tool that has been made available to many people. And, like the previous Socialist Government, we removed the multimedia tax, we are now removing the last remnant. The arguments are, in fact, the same as in 2011, but when it is the current government that presents the messages, yes, the Social Democracy is against today, despite the fact that it was previously in favour. That doesn't make much sense. In order for work to pay better, it is no surprise that we want to reduce taxes, especially on small labour incomes, and it must also pay better to save up. Therefore, in the coming year, we will continue to negotiate a tax reform following agreements on job reform and on the agreement on several years on the labour market • agreements that have already freed money to reduce the tax on labour, both in order to solve so-called interplay problems, so as to ensure that it is better worth saving, and also the central challenge, that for many people it is only modest or not at all worth working. As I said, we have agreements in our luggage that guarantee funding to get started. Our ambitions are, of course, greater. 'Cause it's gotta pay off to work. That is our clear starting point. That is only fair and fair, and everyone in the Folketing ought to be able to support that basically, because in my view it is absolutely essential to ensure broad support for our welfare societies; those who can work, yes, they must work for their own good and their families' good and for the common good. But it also provides the foundation for growth in the future. Danish economy is well. Private employment has increased by over 100,000 since the last election, which is 16,200 fewer on cash benefits since the introduction of the cash benefits ceiling, and it is close to being a record low number of Danes on public support. Several have the joy of earning their own money and supporting their own family and ensuring greater freedom over their own lives. We need to strengthen that foundation. This requires an economic policy that is balanced and that we ensure that there are the hands that are fortunately demanded by our talented companies, because they must not end up in a situation where the lack of employees means that we cannot deliver in the years to come. That is why we must continue to have reforms that increase labour supply, because this is a prerequisite for prolonging the recovery and sustaining the recovery. We can choose for ourselves whether we want overheating, new crisis and stagnation, or whether we want to take the steps that ensure that growth can be maintained at a high level. We continue to give priority to core welfare. We shall proceed with the Finance Act 2 billion. kr. for health, because we want a world-class health service, no matter where you live in Denmark, a health service in which everyone is guaranteed good care. That is why there will be, among other things: • strengthening helicopter response with an additional emergency medical helicopter. We have strengthened the fight against cancer through Cancer Plan IV, we have given priority to the close and coherent health care, the safe environment for children with life-threatening diseases, better maternity leave for both parents, a better HPV vaccine and strengthened rehabilitation with free choice. The government and the Danish People's Party, with the latest finance laws, have given considerable priority to the elderly area, and this effort will continue with next year's Finance Act. 2.7 billion kr. in extra lift in the number of warm hands, more free choice, strengthened action against the sick absence of the nursing staff, relief of relatives and a dignified death. We must increase the quality of our efforts towards the elderly, because there is no link between resource consumption and the quality experienced. We must be better at learning from the good example, and that work will continue in the years to come, it is part of the agreement. Let me also just make it clear that next year the service framework of the regions and municipalities will be increased, as opposed to, for example, the community service framework, which fell under the government of which the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, was a part. Those service frames will be lifted next year. We want a consistent policy on foreigners, where those who can also contribute to Danish society, while those who disgust and violate our values and standards should not be here. That is why we are making a series of restrictions on the expulsion of criminal foreigners and refugees travelling on holiday in their country of origin, we are setting up a home-travel centre, we are strengthening the neighbourhoods with the efforts of the world's hotspots, we are placing the highest amount of money ever • 2.5 billion. kr. We need to strengthen security in Denmark, and that is why we are giving priority to a significant strengthening of Danish police, a boost of 1.3 billion. kr. over the coming years. We release officers from transport assignments to visible police work, we increase the preoccupation of police officers at the police school to a level far above what the former Social Democratic government did. We ensure greater efforts against gang crime, juvenile delinquency, cyberattacks, and there is financial coverage to raise the penalty for serious violence, break-ins when residents are at home, and the penalty for digital sexual abuse. The main economic priority, however, is the tax administration, because it requires trust in our tax administration. Since the last parliamentary elections, over 10 billion have been set aside. kr. to strengthen the tax administration, both to get the money in the box, but also, as I said, to ensure that there is confidence that everyone pays the tax as they should. Because trust that everyone pays the correct tax is important, it is only fair, and so it is only fair to all citizens and companies that comply with the common rules of the game. I don't want them to be outstripped by crooks, cheats and platters. It is going well in Denmark, but it requires a steady hand on the steering wheel. However, we have secured a good starting point through reforms. In fact, both better core welfare and tax relief are affordable, and that is not contrary to each other either. Nor did the Social Democrats think so when they were in government, but they always think so in opposition. It's a little sad. I welcome concrete results with this agreement that shows the Danes that we take their problems seriously and that we are working to make Denmark an even better society, not only next year but also in the years to come. All good things come to him who waits, sounds an old saying. That is also the case for Christmas. Patience is strained to the utmost, but then joy becomes all the greater when the result is known.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100139	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. I have a long list of Members who wish to make brief comments. It is, of course, such a joint effort to keep to the speaking time, and then we can go a long way in that list. We'll start with sir. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100157	Thank you for that, and also thank you to the rapporteur of the Left, who practically read a Christmas gospel above the government's excellence, and that must be his way of doing so. Most people may not have seen it that way in the course that has been, but self-esteem is the only praise you can be sure of here in life. So it's okay. But if we are to pay tribute to everything the government parties are promising, among other things. LA's demand for historicly large tax reliefs and, at the same time, it is also necessary to find money for defence in order to ensure Denmark's best interests at a time when the government's support party, the Danish People's Party, has made it clear that we have to deal with what is called demographic pressure, so that there are more elderly people and children, and there are, of course, some expenses associated with this, even though it is nice that we are also in the situation that there is a lack of money in the box. The funding is not entirely linked, which is why it is also interesting to see where the money for the Left's Christmas presents should come from. That is why we have taken note of the fact that the Vice-President of the Left, who is also identical with the Finance Minister, goes in to the newspaper Denmark on 25 November this year and says that the plans to reduce the daily allowance are still on the table and that this is the policy of the Left. Therefore, for the sake of good order, now that the gifts have been distributed from the platform, I just need to confirm that the bill to be sent out to the citizens when the Christmas spirit is to spread, among other things. is to the benefit recipients, i.e. that it is the policy of the Left that the allowance should be cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100343	I know that the Social Democrats find it difficult to see that we have a government that ensures an economic policy, so that there is economic room for manoeuvre, both to ensure investment in core welfare and to lighten the tax on labour, and I am rather surprised that the Social Democrats continue to seize that debate. Just two and a half years ago, we had a social democratic government, and there was a policy in which, for example, the service framework of the municipalities was cut and tax cuts were granted, and at that time it was not a problem that the community's service framework was reduced, it did not cost welfare. Now we are in a situation where both investments in core welfare and hardworking Danes can get a little more of their own money paid out when they go to work. It must be a pity, as a Social Democrat, to see that it is possible to do both.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100438	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100443	No, what is too bad is that I asked a very specific question, which the rapporteur did not answer entirely. The reality is that more than 5 billion have yet to be assigned. kr. funding for all the promises that the rapporteur has just spoken so warmly about, which is why I am putting the question quite specifically again, and I fully understand that the rapporteur would like to try to attack to the right and to the left. However, I believe that those who can get into the line of fire, namely the beneficiaries of the allowance, are rather concerned: is it still the policy of the Left, as the Minister of Finance said on 25 November, that the allowance can be cut in order to finance all the promises made by the rapporteur? So do not make a long speech about what the rapporteur thinks the Social Democratic Party thinks about big and small, but instead give an answer to the question: is the Left ready to cut unemployment benefits, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100540	There is no proposal to reduce the daily allowance rates. That the Social Democrats want to attack the debate in such a way that peace be with it. For example, in the discussion that has taken place both for the opening debate and for the first reading of the Finance Act, there has been a repeated response to the fact that some of the elements that can be used to free additional resources for an economic space are the further introduction of profit principles, it is a ceiling on the number of children to whom child benefit can be granted, and this is the increased use of, for example, self-payment for Danish education. I know that the Social Democrats have been given the answer many times, and they will have one more time here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100625	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100630	Thank you. Now there was no big tax agreement here before Christmas, but the Left has not given up adopting such an agreement, and in connection with this whole circus Samuelsen, or whatever we shall call it, parts of this agreement were leaked as well. And there is one thing that certainly shines in the eye, and that is that there is a group of Danes who, in turn, have to be completely passed over when these tax cuts are to be distributed, and that is one million Danish pensioners. They have been cheated every time tax breaks have been granted, and apparently they have to do so in the eyes of the Left this time. I believe that many of us received a letter from an old-age pensionist the other day, who wrote: I do not regard the retirement pension as a transfer income. I see that I have paid and saved and worked my whole life, and therefore I do not understand, if there is a room for tax relief, why I should then be passed over. I think that is a very good question which I hope we can get an answer to from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100735	The reason why we want to reduce the tax on labour is that we think it is crucial that it is better worth working and that we do something about the problem that affects many Danes, namely that it is not at all or only to a modest extent worthwhile to go to work and that it is not worthwhile to make an extra effort. I think this is so essential that we deal with the fact that there is a basic understanding in this society that, of course, one should have more of being in employment than not being so, and if we had an unlimited amount of money at our disposal, I do not mind being able to give lower taxes to even more, but we use the tax as an instrument to ensure that it pays better to work, that it pays better to save, that we get more hands available on the labour market, so that we ensure that there is the labour available to our companies. So I do not see why we should use our tax policy to get 84-year-olds into employment. I think they should be allowed to enjoy their retirement. It's well deserved. On the other hand, with the Finance Act, we are making a number of initiatives to improve the quality of elderly people who need home help, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100851	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100854	It has to pay to work. Has not the one million pensioners in Denmark worked their entire lives, worked hard for our society, made an extra effort? They do, and therefore it is quite incomprehensible that if there is a profit then one can discuss whether there is •where there is money for the Danes to pay less in tax, then this group, which is one of the poorest in Denmark, who has worked hard and built up our society, must again be hooked up by developments, then they must again see the rest of society run away from them, so there will be less money for Christmas gifts for the grandchildren, while others get more. It is, of course, the difference that grows between the group of pensioners and everyone else. I do not think it is fair, and I do not think it was a fair answer from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100946	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222100948	If you look a little further back, you can see that in previous financial laws, together with the Danish People's Party, we have, for example, introduced an elderly cheque so that the elderly, who had the least, got some extra money, but when it comes to using a tax instrument, it is to achieve some results, namely that it is better to work, that we get more hands out on the labour market. And I think it is absolutely crucial that we have a tax system that supports the basic story of our welfare society that people who have the opportunity to be in employment should also have an economic carrot out of being in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101028	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101035	Thank you. I think that the Greens, environmental measures and so on, again, are completely absent from the rapporteur's speech. I think it is really a pity that the government will not focus more on that. One of the things I would like to focus on in my question is that the government has cut 802 million. kr. of the Danish climate assistance measured in relation to 2014 • compared to the fact that we know that there will be a lot of people on the run. That is why we need to do something both in relation to the climate at home, we need to be a pioneer country, but also globally, and it is strange that we are lowering our climate aid. So I would really like to hear the rapporteur's comments on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101121	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101125	You might want to have more speaking time for your rapporteur's speech. I think that the alternative should read a number of the agreements that have been concluded. For example, the Finance Act ensures that there is an economic framework that ensures that if the demand for conversion to organic farming continues, there are resources for it. We are lowering the electricity tax with our business and entrepreneurial package, which helps to support the green transition. It has been a great wish from many, because it is very effective in ensuring the green conversion that we lower the electric heat we really need that a greater part of our power consumption comes from electricity instead of other forms of energy. So there are a large number of instruments that certainly support the green transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101219	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101224	Yes, but these are precisely the points that the rapporteur mentions in the Financial Law Agreement. And then I have to say, it's change. So, in terms of ecology, it's 30 million. kr. in 2019, 20 million; kr. in 2020 and 10 million; kr. in 2021. And the green natural pool is a good thing, but it is far from being a long way off. That's 20 million. kr. annual. As far as the electricity tax is concerned, that is true, but what the rapporteur does not answer me at all is in relation to climate aid. How come we have to ensure that we do not continue to have 23.5 million people driven on the run because of the climate, climate refugees as there were in 2016?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101313	Well, it is a major task, and it is also a task in which I certainly believe we are fulfilling our international commitments and are active in that effort globally. We play a key role in an ambitious climate action globally. The other day it was the Minister for Climate and Energy who, in the European negotiations, tried to raise the level of ambition. Unfortunately, there was no majority for that. So we deliver both concrete results in the Finance Act and it was not all of them that Mrs Josephine Fock got with ^ but also in relation to our efforts globally.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101346	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101352	Thanks for the speech. After all, the Left makes a great deal of being a party that wants to balance Denmark and tie Denmark together again, city and country. How does the rapporteur actually feel about the fact that, at the same time as the government has moved around with one hand? 3 900 jobs in rural areas, has the other hand cut the equivalent of 17 000 jobs away in the education sector outside the major cities of Denmark? In other words, savings are made in the field of education, which hits surgically the hardest where you already find it difficult to run a school because you have a shortage of young people who come in and so on. Is there somewhere a pain limit to how long the Left will continue to cut in the country's future, to keep making it harder to be a child and young in rural areas outside the big cities?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101448	I am very pleased that the Radical Left recognises the efforts made by the government, which we in the Left have been the banner leader of, namely to ensure a better balance for Denmark. I don't know exactly where the number 17,000 comes from. After all, we have had an approach for many, many years in which we said that the public sector may also be a little more effective: the 2-percent requirement. This has only been the case in the field of education since last year. After all, a number of the funds have been withdrawn. For example, there is extra money to boost some of our vulnerable primary schools, and I think it is important that we always ensure that we spend taxpayers' money in the best way possible. And it is an opportunity for me to see that, in the field of education too, money can be spent a little more efficiently than has been done so far. This is a general demand we have made on the public sector, and this is a demand we have made last year and for the education sector in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101555	We recognise the wish of the Left for a Denmark in balance, but we do not recognise the results, because the final statement shows that there are fewer state jobs in rural areas than there were when the government started its policy. And this is because, on the one hand, some state jobs are being relocated, but, on the other hand, more state jobs are being cut out out there. And that is among other things. in the field of education, which is what Denmark must live on. It is the future of our young people, and that is why we are a welfare society, that we have highly qualified young people. When you cut vocational schools and colleges and vocational colleges, you are undermining opportunities throughout Denmark to get the necessary skilled labour both for the private sector and for the public sector. It may be that one year you can cut 2%. in order to have a more efficient administration, but we are far above that point. That's 2%. the first year, the second year, the third year, the fourth year, it will be 10%. in the lifetime of the government. I do not know how many people have been fired out there, but what is equivalent to 17 000 jobs in rural areas, in other words in the field of education alone, has been cut. At some point you have cut down on teaching so much that you cut into the leg, into the lifeblood. When will the Left reach that point?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101711	I still believe that the 17 000 people are very badly in line with the figures that are otherwise dealt with. After all, I think it is important that we ensure that there is quality in our education. That goes without saying. That's why we're gonna create a quality pool with this 170 million finance agreement. kr. to vocational schools. Of course, it can also frustrate a member of the previous government that this government can make tripartite agreements, such as the one before us. also provides a significant boost to the adult and continuing education area. And there I just think it is important to include in the whole story that we generally re-prioritize, by putting aside a little money by saying that everyone must try to streamline a little, and in return, we can use the money politically, where we want there to be a strengthened focus and where we prioritise a strengthened effort.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101806	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101809	Does the Left agree with the party leader and Foreign Minister of the Liberal Alliance that the room for manoeuvre should be considered too much paid tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101826	The Council room is the economy of the public budgets that is available when we look forward. It's a whole series of things. This is because we have made a number of reforms, so we have ensured that more people are in the labour market, that there is development and that companies are effective. That is, it might be said, the money available to either spend on investment, public investment, for public consumption, or to let the Danes keep some more of their money. And what the specific cause is most likely to be, you might be able to fight for a long time, but the room for manoeuvre is the money that lies and is available without us having to do any further when we have to make a budget law every single year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222101912	Thanks for that lesson. I think most people in here are aware of that. A yes or no question: is the room for manoeuvre the result of a series of reforms, reductions in daily allowances, early retirement, labour market reforms, all sorts of things, all that the ordinary Danes have contributed to, provided that they were promised that they would take care of the future welfare? Is that what created the room for manoeuvre? That is a different point of view than the fact that the room for manoeuvre is too much paid tax. That is why I have to ask again: is the position of the Left the same as that of the President of LA, namely that the room for manoeuvre is an expression of much paid tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102003	It's gonna be a semantic discussion. It is money that is available and it may be money that is available because more activity has been created, so revenue is greater and if the tax was lower, there was not the same room for manoeuvre. I mean, it's gonna be a semantic discussion, and I'm sure you can get a lot out of it. But it is money that is available that can then be used for different purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102029	Thank you. Then it's mr. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102037	Thank you. I will also try to address the savings that have been made in the field of vocational education. I remember that when I went to technical school myself, we had to go up and visit a brickwork in Randers. And there we saw, who were dug up clay, and we saw the shapes and ovens, and we understood what different kinds of clay were and such things. I remember that trip today. And when I see a brick today, I can somehow better understand what it has meant, namely that there has been a burning process, and I know where you have dug up the clay and something like that. I think it strengthens the education that you get out and experience some things. Without a re-priority contribution, the state would have paid 114,000 kroner. a year to train a mechanic. With the re-priority contribution, the government is budgeting for us to pay DKK 107,000. a year to train a mechanic. We're gonna keep training mechanics. I'm not gonna stand here and say that all the schools are gonna fall apart and it's gonna all go bankrupt. I'm just saying that the extra little profit to go out and visit a company or come out and experience something outside the school is what disappears in these years. And then the students get A4 Arks lessons where they have to learn about how to burn a brick. And that's not something they're gonna remember 20-30 years later. That is why I think it is a dangerous road on which the Left has embarked. And I also think that is why both professional organisations and the trade union movement and everyone else who works in this area have been so critical here in the last few weeks. Because they say it's a bad financial law in this area. The government is completely surrounded by experts who say it's a bad financial law. Now we can read in the Finance Act that the government expects the re-prioritisation contribution to continue until the last forecast year, i.e. 2021. That would mean that it would cost 101,000 kroner. training a mechanic. This is working on quality. So the question to the Left is actually: when is this going to stop? Are we going to open the Finance Act every year and just see that the 2-percent savings continue and continue? Doesn't it have a rear edge?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102224	I believe that the best medicine for our vocational schools is, and we are actually trying to address that with the quality pool of 170 million. DKr., we set aside • is to ensure that we increase the number of young people seeking vocational training. Because if we bring in more pupils who meet the objective that we have together, that more people have to take up vocational training, then that increases the economy of vocational schools. With the tripartite agreement, as I said, we have set aside a quality pool of 150 million. kr. kr. And I think this again is proof that, of course, there should be a connection. And yes, I think you can re-prioritize 2%. And then, for example, we give priority to better equipment at vocational schools, so that you have access to the latest machines, the latest technology, which is as close as possible to the reality that you meet when you complete your training.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102328	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102331	But I am absolutely convinced that the rapporteur of the Left knows very well that it is nonsense and nonsense that we are hearing from the platform now. There will be a cut of 270 million. kr., and then 170 million will be added. kr. It does not require a student cap to figure out that it is not something that strengthens the quality of vocational schools. So all that talk about new machines and stuff is hard to take seriously. That is why I am asking the question again. We can read in the Finance Act that right up to the forecast year 2021, the government envisages that the re-prioritisation contribution should just continue and continue. They are now writing flyers at SOSU schools and at technical schools. There's gotta be a new round of layoffs going on. And now we ask the Left: can we expect this ever to end, or should the Danish education sector just adjust to save 2% in the future? a year whose Left has power as they have heeded?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102421	Now it's relatively new. This is a re-priority contribution that was introduced last year. Otherwise, this area has been exempted from a re-prioritization contribution. I have to say that I do not quite understand the socialist rhetoric, because on the question from the Radical Left as to whether social democracy will not remove the re-priority contribution in the other field of education, the answer was no. You wouldn't. It was thought not to be removed. And the Social Democrats must think that a re-prioritisation contribution is fine. We believe it is important that we always try to make the most of the money and that the re-prioritisation contribution can be a quite good instrument for ensuring a higher level of efficiency and releasing resources that we can then prioritise.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102503	Then it's mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102509	Thank you. If you're gonna try to look back at the cash benefits, like mr. Nicolai Wammen mentioned, I have to say that there is, in fact, a quote from the Prime Minister from before the election saying: we are not going to cut the daily allowance. Then we see a quote from the Finance Minister of 25 November that it is still part of the policy of the Left to change the level of benefits. I have to say that it is not just all of us in here who do not understand what the Left and the Prime Minister are saying. Nor do the parties to the agreements in the way they were, we could see in the course of the whole process. I think, in fact, that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has said quite well with the words about the Christmas calendar... the hole in the ground... no one knew what happened, not even those who were there, and so there has not come to an end. I just have to hear: is it the policy of the Left to cut unemployment benefits, or is it not?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102600	We have no proposal to cut the daily allowance rate, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102602	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102603	Then I have to ask: why did the Minister of Finance say that, and why was it in the 2025 plan of the Left a year ago? Don't you want that anymore? Has it completely gone away? If you do not want it anymore, that means that we cannot count on what the Left's 2025 plan said, and we cannot count on what the Finance Minister says either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102624	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102626	Yes, but there has been no suggestion that the level of benefit should generally be reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102630	Questions and answers went very well, and that is an example to follow, because then we get far down on the list, I just want to say. Now it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102639	Thank you. When you look at the Left's website and look at what it says about education, you can see that it says that in a globalised world, knowledge and competences must ensure Denmark's competitiveness and adaptability. That seems to me to be very sensible. The problem is that right now we are in a situation where the government has cut billions of dollars on education and systematically every year removes 2%. of the economy of our universities, our professional colleges, our colleges and our vocational schools. It can therefore be felt around the country, and it can be felt that teachers are being fired, it can be felt, by people being on much larger teams and by the fact that a lot of subjects and education are being set up around them. So this is very serious, I mean. I would like to ask: how does the rapporteur think this development will affect Denmark's position in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102738	We are one of the countries in the world that spends the most money on education. This helps to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to take an education, acquire the skills and create the opportunities in life that they want. Surely no country in the world spends as much on training aid as we do. If you look at the figures, you can see that the budgets have grown by about 30%, I believe, within the last 8-9 years. Then it is also quite possible for me to say: with such large budgets it is also possible to try to put a little bit of a re-priority contribution of 2%. In.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102821	I just want to say it's about. 2 billion kr. a year that will be removed from the sector. It's a crazy lot of money, and it gives you a worse quality. One might say that the effect of tax cuts, which the government would prefer to give priority to, is, to put it mildly, questionable. However, we do have many studies that show that there is an obvious good correlation between investing in education and research and getting a bonus for the economy. It's just good for all of us. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur not recognise that investment in education and research is actually a very good business for all of us?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102858	Yes, and I suppose there is a good example of this in the Finance Act, because research appropriations are being increased by 400 million. kr. Next year. There has been a large research reserve which, if I remember fairly correctly, almost all the parties of the Folketing, if not all the parties of the Folketing, have been involved in the implementation. We have an ambition to deliver 1%. of our gross domestic product for publicly funded research, that is the so-called Barcelona objective, and we are maintaining it with the agreement on next year's Finance Act. And that means that the research appropriations will be increased by 400 million. kr. extra next year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102932	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222102938	A part of Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen's speech referred to the economic situation in which, fortunately, employment is progressing and has been doing so for a number of years. And it was also about what needs to be done so that the recovery can, as it were, continue, so that we can have continued growth in the economy. We share that wish. Much of it was then about the supply of labour. It has to be said that what is then happening in the coming years is actually also that the amount of labour is growing. However, what is lacking is a certain type of labour force, not least skilled labour • fewer skilled workers available, more unskilled workers who have difficulty in fighting their way to a permanent place in the labour market. So it is the quality of the labour force that is at stake and what kind of labour there is if we are to ensure increased growth and employment. This is also what is needed in order for us to be able to benefit the Danish economy at all. Then it's just that I'm surprised that the government is consistently targeting vocational schools and that they're doing it again with this financial law. The rapporteur can confirm that next year there will be DKK 1 000. less per students to run vocational schools in Denmark and that this naturally has consequences for the quality that can be offered at vocational schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103050	Well, I acknowledge that the overall inventory, when looking at the re-priority contribution and the quality pool, provides a smaller budget. On the other hand, we are actually guaranteeing a boost to the investment framework which could otherwise have reduced the ability of vocational schools to make those investments by 0.25 billion. kr. Once again, of course, I understand that it must be a little sad to be a socialist and to witness a government that can deliver tripartite agreements on, for example, better adult and further training, which ensures that there is a better opportunity to train for those who lack it. The social democracy has come up with a proposal, and it would certainly be very positive if Mr. Jesper Petersen would confirm that it would actually cost work in the short term.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103141	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103145	Well, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen keeps talking about and trying to make it about something else. The consequence of the current financial law is that there are further deteriorations in vocational schools, and then you keep saying that they just have to draw more pupils, because then they also get some more money into running school. But this bites in the tail, because if you keep making it more difficult for vocational schools to deliver a high quality and do something that makes it an attractive environment for young people to enter, then you do not attract anyone else. Then we will continue to lack the skilled workers who will ensure growth and employment in the future. We must ensure a strengthened Danish economy, that Danish companies can take orders and that young people have a firm and good job. Why is the government demeaning the vocational schools with this financial agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103227	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103230	I repeat, it must be because Mr. Jesper Petersen didn't listen. When you take re-priority contributions and quality pool, it gives a small amount. Then we will be able to increase the investment framework which would otherwise have meant that vocational schools would not be able to make the investments they wanted. It is now just the right context, and I am quite sure that Mr. Jesper Petersen can be confirmed if he wants to read it a little more carefully. We are also saying that it is important that we achieve our ambitions in the field of vocational education and training • some of the things that we share together on • because we have an ambition that more people should take up vocational training, and we have also said, and the agreement states that we will take a status on this in the course of next year to see how the ambitions we have together are going to get more people to take up vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103323	Then it's mr. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103327	Thank you for the floor. My question is about green national accounts. Does the rapporteur really think that it is sensible to scrap the update and development of green national accounts? I am thinking that it will not help so much simply to create growth in the economy if, at the same time, we undermine our nature, our resources and do not put an end to the climate crisis. In addition, Denmark is obliged to measure growth on a number of parameters other than economic ones with its commitment to the UN's global goals. How does the rapporteur think that next year we will measure growth on the social and green bottoms in particular?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103409	We measure a lot in the green area, in our climate action. We have made a large number of initiatives in the last year: the supply of VE in greater competition, so that we get more for money; through the business and entrepreneurial package, for example, a reduction in the electricity and electricity tax, so that we get more electricity into our energy supply; ensuring that there is money for conversion to ecology. If you have to use the rapporteur's party chairman's approach to this, you can say that when we remove the tax on free telephone, we also limit resources, because instead of having two mobile phones, if you have an employer's and your own phone, you can settle for one. I know that in the alternative it is thought that one of the major victims of fighting the climate challenge is that one has to settle I think there are a lot of Danes who cannot, but that was the alternative solution to the climate crisis, and to that I can say that with the financial law agreement we ensure that you do not have two phones if you have an employer-paid mobile phone. That is a very sensible way of restricting the consumption of resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103525	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103527	Thank you. That was a number of very strange answers to something I did not ask at all. What I was trying to ask was that the whole development of green national accounts has been reduced. After all, this is one thing we are faced with having to work seriously on now and in the future, among other things. As a result of the UN's global goals. So how do the rapporteur, the government and the Left think that we can work seriously on this area when we have a
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103605	We can do this because we have a large number of other measuring tools and do not believe that green national accounts are essential for our climate action. It is in this way the concrete initiatives that are measured and calculated in all sorts of other contexts. We don't need that and then I just allowed myself to draw attention to some of the concrete initiatives that we are delivering, because I think that may be more interesting, i.e. what we are doing actively to combat climate change. I think that is more relevant than how we measure it, because we measure it in many ways, and we continue to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103643	Then it's mr. Bjarne Laustsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103645	Thank you. It is a strange financial law, and it has also been a strange process. We are trying to solve some problems which are non-existent and, on the other hand, there are a number of other things that I have at least received a lot of mail about, and this is the thing about Production Denmark. How do we secure enough labour? How do we ensure that vocational schools and other AMU centres have enough resources to be able to train young people so that they can enter the labour market and arrange for this change? I understood from an earlier answer given by the rapporteur of the Left that it was good that vocational schools were spared. Why, then, do you not save anything more if it is the case that you think there will be more in vocational schools if you save as much as you do? What will be the reality is that you are going to lay off employees in vocational schools, you are going to cut down on all teaching material. Does the rapporteur really think that young people will go somewhere and get vocational training, where every day from morning to night they talk about cuts instead of ensuring that there are the funds available to enable people to get good education, which is also demanded by business?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103755	Basically, I think it is a very good financial law. I do not think it is a financial law with many very positive initiatives, which I do not really think the Social Democrats are against. That is, when we give priority to 2 billion. kr. for health, 2.7 billion. kr. for the elderly, 1.3 billion. kr. to the police, I think the Social Democrats will agree with that anyway. Yes, we are making a re-priority contribution to vocational schools. We are also doing so in the other field of education, and I have actually noticed that the Social Democrats seem to think it is a good idea, because on questions from the Radical Left, the answer from the Socialist Financial Rapporteur was that this had not been given priority. So it is believed that this can be done in the other field of education and not in vocational schools. We also agree that when we make a re-priority contribution, the money must also be returned to where it can benefit, and that is why we are creating a quality pool, and that is also why we have said that, in relation to the ambitions we have, to increase the activities of vocational schools with more pupils, which we share, we are keeping a close eye on it, and we are also taking a status next year. It's part of our deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103908	Sir. Bjarne Laustsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103910	I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his reply. He does not answer the question I am asking at all, which is why it will be somewhat different. I asked how it might be that the Left wants to cut back, so that some people in vocational schools should be fired and cut down in teaching materials, all that makes the people who choose vocational training far too few even receive less training, rather than making sure that the vocational schools receive the funds they need, so that the business community, Production Denmark, gets the people they want. This means that there is no educational waste, they simply get to work. Why is it necessary for the Left to cut back on the area that is so important for what we are going to live on in the future? That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222103958	This was also, in all modesty, what I spent the last half of my time giving an answer to, because we believe, as has been done in large parts of the public sector for many years, that it is possible to get a little more out of the crowns, that efficiency can be achieved, and we believe that this can also be achieved in vocational schools. And again, I just get so puzzled. When the Social Democracy was in government, its 2020 plan operated with a modernisation contribution of 12 billion. kr., because it was well thought that you could get the money to stretch a little longer. We also believe that vocational schools can do so. It is just strange why the Social Democrats believe that you can make a modernisation contribution when you are in government, but that you cannot make a 2-percent contribution when you are in opposition. It's just hard to see the context. I am not saying that this is an easy exercise, but it is certainly not possible, and that is why I just wish that there was a little more coherence in what the Social Democrats did when they sat in government and what they say when they are in opposition.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104057	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104104	All good comes to those who wait, and it must be easier to be a Dane. Would the rapporteur please answer my question when I ask this: what about the 61 000 Danes who have their health destroyed at work because there are employers who do not care about fair competition and who simply have a bad working environment? Why are the rapporteur's party and the government cutting down on the Labour Inspectorate, which has to control these employers? After all, they will be cut by 40 employees this year, next year with 14 employees and next year again with 16 employees. After all, we cannot control those bandits who have a bad working environment if we do not have proper labour inspection. What's the point?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104142	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104147	I basically agree that we must ensure that there are proper conditions in the labour market and that employees can safely go to work every day. With the agreement for next year there are 146 million. kr. In fact, it is 11 million. kr. more than was set aside this year. Then there are some intercepts that I do not think it is appropriate to go into detail about, but I would just like to say that there is a much greater risk-based approach today, with a greater focus on those companies and industries where there is the greatest danger to employees. In fact, this also means that efforts can be made a little more effective. However, I just think it is important to emphasise that the effort on labour market conditions is 146 million. kr. to 2018 and it is 11 million. kr. more than has been set aside this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104239	Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104244	Yeah, that was an answer to a question I didn't ask. Now I'm gonna have to try to ask you quite clearly, for sir. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party also stayed out of it. The Labour Inspectorate has been cut year after year, and if this government continues until 2021, we cut 25%. of the number of employees of the Factory Inspectorate gone, and that's what I'm asking. It costs us 84 billion. kr. a year • a year! It's money we could have saved. It's gluttony to spend so much money on it when you can prevent it. I would like to ask once again: is it right or wrong that the Labour Inspectorate has cut 40 years' work this year and that the next year is cut 14 years' work and that the next year is cut 16 years' work again? Is that right or wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104332	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104335	I do not know the figures in the slightest detail, but with the enthusiasm that Mr. Christian Juhl shows, it seems as if Mr. Christian Juhl has it completely under control. However, as I say, we are making a boost in a number of areas and we are making a more risk-based approach, which also allows us to get more for the efforts that are being made, because none of us disagree that we should have a labour market where we can safely go to work. Monitoring must be a factor in this. The main responsibility, of course, lies at the individual workplace of the individual employer, who is responsible for ensuring that the employee can safely go to work every day, and to ensure that, yes, we must have supervision that can look particularly at those who are at risk in order to break the rules thoroughly over the shoulders.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104419	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104422	Thank you. I would actually have asked about education, but since I would probably be the 15th in line to see that it is crazy to save on our education, I would like to ask something else. After all, we will have media negotiations next year, and now there are a number of parties who have been out to say that time seems to have run out of the licence. It is both administratively heavy, it is socially unfair and it is a little stupid, because if you live three people together, you pay more than a family does because you pay each one. So there have been several parties out to say that they were ready to abolish the licence, but I have had a very difficult time discovering what the position of the Left really is, and this is going to play a crucial role, perhaps already in the context of the tax reform to be discussed, I understand. So what is actually the Left's position on the licence? should it be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104511	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104514	This is an issue on which we have discussed many times in the Left, and I think there have been such differences of opinion in historical terms. We are happy to discuss this within the Left. And I am also aware that it can be an element in several contexts, and we will of course take it then. I actually acknowledge that, as Mr. Jacob Mark says, that if you look at it, a household's consumption of media is well independent of how many are in the household and that in this way the license is relatively more expensive for a person who lives alone than if you are a family of five. I think that is quite a legitimate point of view in that debate. So I can easily see the arguments for removing the licence, and that is also some of what we are discussing in the Left, i.e. whether it would be more appropriate to finance it from the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104613	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104616	One of the reasons why we believe that the licence should be abolished and that a media tax should be created or a tax-financed model should be created, which is multiannual, so there is an arm's length principle, is that it would be more socially equitable for the recipient of cash benefits not to pay exactly the same as the director, to put it that way. Our Minister for Culture has previously believed that there was a need for a subscription scheme, and there I have heard some Liberals speak in favour of a tax-financed model. I think this is gonna be one of the keys to making a broad media settlement. So does the Left or the government or somebody who runs this country have a position on the license?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104654	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104657	I know that we have internal discussions in the Left about our position on a future media settlement. We have not finished those discussions yet, and that is why it would probably be a little unfair if, like short-sightedly, I said that here is the final proposal from the Left. But that is something we are discussing, in other words how we ensure that there is funding for the public service area. We also have a challenge with people who use the media but who do not pay for it. But Mr. Jacob Mark must have a little patience until we on the Left come up with our media play.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104731	Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104736	Thank you. I would just like to get past this with the vocational schools, because the rapporteur of the Left is standing on the floor and is very puzzled that one can criticise the need for vocational schools to save. But I think that when we give a little attention to this in the debate, it is because the story that lived in the first hours, and perhaps even the first 24 hours on top of the Finance Act, was that the government had lifted the vocational schools. It was also said earlier that you would; you would like to promise to do so. Well, then somebody sat down and rained after the flight, and I agree with Mr. Knox. Mattias Tesfaye in that it wasn't because it was the big calculator you needed to have rather than to see that on the bottom line is equal to 100 million. kr. savings in vocational schools. I think it is the amazement and disappointment that remains, not only here, but also around the vocational schools I myself come to the SOSU schools as rapporteur for the elderly and in the municipalities, where there is a huge lack of trained SOSU helpers and SOSU assistants. It is therefore one of the major challenges for our care for the elderly, our core welfare in the future, that we have not sufficiently trained. That's why it screams to heaven that you choose to save that way on those educations. Just a comment. My question relates to something which the rapporteur replied to my good colleague, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Leif Lahn Jensen earlier. We understand from the rapporteur of the Left that the Left has no plans for general savings in the area of daily allowances. Sometimes you have to listen to what people are actually saying, because that's only a partial answer to that, sir. Leif Lahn Jensen asked. So I have to follow up and ask the rapporteur of the Left: are there any areas where the Left is actually planning to save on unemployment benefits?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104905	I replied to the question of whether we would reduce the level of unemployment benefit, and there we have said: No, we have no intention of doing so. Because I think it is important that we have a system where we can insure ourselves against unemployment and have a guarantee that there is a proper level. It is, of course, a bit strange to get the question again from a Socialist who helped to secure a tax agreement in 2012, which reduced transfer income, including the daily allowance. But, of course, there is so much. Whether you meet inappropriate things and things along the way that make things better and more effective, I think you should always stay open to. However, as I said, we do not have a proposal to reduce the level of unemployment benefits in general, no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104949	Thank you. That will then be the last question for the rapporteur of the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222104954	Then we might have come a little closer to an answer. It wasn't something that comforted me that way. That is why I must just try to ask quite specifically: all the things that the rapporteur of the Left is saying now that we do not want to reduce the daily allowance rate and have no intention of doing so, does this also mean that the Left can refuse to cut the rate of unemployment benefit? That would, of course, be the easiest way, just before the rapporteur of the Left has to come down from the floor, to give a very brief answer. It can actually be answered with a 'yes', you can guarantee that you will not touch the graduation rate on unemployment benefits, or a 'no', you cannot guarantee that you are actually planning to do so. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222105033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222105037	As I said, I think it is important to make it clear: we do not have a proposal to lower the level of our daily allowance. Are there things that can be adjusted to make things better? I would never say that I can never do that. In the proposal and the Finance Act that we are adopting now I hope the Social Democratic Party will agree with that there are no changes in our benefit system. This is quite clear, and I think we have a financial law agreement that delivers what is essential, namely both an effort to improve core welfare and to ensure that the foundations for growth are also strengthened. This is probably the best thing to do: to ensure that there are jobs and a place where people can be in employment. It is the best answer to give to people who lack a job, and the Finance Act here is part of the answer to that. Unfortunately, we have that answer for the benefit of the Social Democrats, because there is not much growth and progress on the part of the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222105134	With that we say thank you to Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen from the Left. Then we'll move on, and that's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten, as finance rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222105145	Yesterday you could read about Ib Gustafsen in Aarhus Stiftstidende. Ib is 93 years old and he lives in Malling, a small town south of Aarhus. Ib from Malling has taken care of himself all his life, and he has put an honor in it, he says in the interview. However, age has begun to print it may be very natural when you are 93 years old and he gets easily out of breath when he has to solve household chores. That's why Ib came to the municipality this summer to get a little help in vacuuming and cleaning. But from Ib to the municipality and until something has happened in the case, it has been 5 months and he has still not received the help he wants. That is simply not fair, Ib says in the interview. And he is absolutely right, that is simply not fair. It is not at all reasonable that people who have worked their entire lives, who have contributed to the community for decades after decades, who have paid their taxes, who have built up our welfare society, should wait five months for an answer when they ask for help, because they have grown old and cannot manage themselves, or, unfortunately, as many people do, never get the help they need. No, Ib, that's not fair. Ib Gustafsen's history is unfortunately a very good picture of the situation in our country after the economic crisis of the last decade. Our welfare has been cut deep, and it has hit hard, especially among our elderly. Six million home help hours have been cut away since 2008 in a period where more elderly people have come in need of help. Those are the hours that, among other things. Ib from Malling is now cheated. We hear stories of nursing staff alone on night shifts with up to 40 elderly people, many of them demented. But it is not just the elderly who have been hit. They are also people with disabilities. It is our children's institutions where we hear stories over and over again that the educator is alone with 20 children in the outer classes when the morning-tired kids are to be delivered. In our hospitals, there has been so much efficiency that employees often do not have time to solve basic tasks such as health care. talk to relatives of people who have been diagnosed with a life-threatening disease. We are seeing, as we have heard in this debate, that our education is being cut deep, of what we have to live on in the future. As Ib from Malling says, it's not fair. But the good news is that we can do something about it. Denmark is out of the crisis. It is progressing in the economy, new jobs have been created that are being paid more in tax. The banks pay buzzing profits to their shareholders, and the exports boom. So we can afford to clean up. We can afford Ib from Malling not to wait 5 months to get the help he needs. We can afford to hire some more colleagues for the skilled SOSUs, educators and nurses who work for our welfare. We can afford to invest in education and in green conversion. We can also afford to ensure proper safety for workers affected by illness and unemployment and to provide a good working environment for those in work. We can make that choice if we want to. The only problem is that the government doesn't want to. Instead of spending the good times refurbishing our welfare society after the crisis, man is manically obsessed with lowering the tax and, above all, the tax for those who already have enough. Every year its tax rebates to those who have the most. The richest families have had their inheritance tax reduced, luxury cars have become cheaper, and this continues with the financial law we are debating. Billions have been spent on a so-called business and growth package, which gives large tax rebates to Danish companies. Let us just look at one of the elements, the so-called investor allowance, which provides large deductions for those who have the capital to invest in companies. I've been asking the tax minister who's actually gonna benefit from that tax rebate. They get 10%. the poorest any benefit from it? No. What about the 30%? lowest income? Neither do I. So let's try the 60 or the 80 percent. by those of us who aren't quite at the top, are we enjoying it? No. The only group to benefit from this tax rebate belongs to the group of 10 per cent. The richest Danes, and even within this group, it's them at the top, the one percent that runs with the big win. I guess it won't be much more crooked then. And the imbalance applies to all the tax rebates that are included in this finance agreement. The compensatory tax, which is only paid by them with the greatest pension savings, is abolished. Tax is abolished on the part of the salary paid as access to the telephone. And no, it's not the 3F that now gets a tax-free good. It's the lawyer, it's the director. But we haven't seen the worst yet, because even though the government and the Danish People's Party didn't succeed with the historic tax cuts that we were promised for Christmas, and no matter how much rabble came from the circus Samuelsen, it's still the plan that this will happen in the new year. And the fact is that the tax reduction that the government wants is simply not affordable if we are to have a good welfare society in the future; there is no advice if Ib from Malling and many of the other people who enter their third age in the coming years are to have the help they deserve. Much has been said about the room for manoeuvre, and it has almost been given the impression that there are just billions waiting to be spent and that there is plenty of money for both welfare and lower taxes. But that's not true. If we want our welfare society to keep up with both the demographic trait, that is, that there will be more elderly people, but also with the general development of prosperity in our society, then we saw, for example, that there are more elderly people. can afford the latest treatments, so there is actually a lack of money in the room until 2025. Even if we spent every penny and every penny in the room now available, it would not be enough to ensure that the Danes experience a modern welfare society towards 2025. Someone might be thinking if they're wondering if it's not just the socialists who always draw a scare picture. No, it's not. Indeed, some of the country's main economists do not belong to the left. This is among other things. ex-surrectionists. You write in a speech in Berlingske, and I quote: 'Of course it is politically entirely legitimate to want a smaller public sector and higher private consumption. However, it is important that we stand by our policies and recognise that if public consumption increases by less than 1.1%. per year, the quality of the public service will not be able to keep pace with the development of prosperity. More than 10 billion are missing. kr. in the room for manoeuvre, so that we can just have a welfare society that, as has been done historically, goes with it. Let's say that we, for example, are... at home experience an increasing quality in what surrounds us, for example. Be that as it may, we get computers. Well, if we hadn't had the development that welfare had to keep up with developments in the years up until today, then there wouldn't have been computers at a single school. So no, there is no room for both historically large tax cuts and for a proper welfare society in the future. It's a either or. Over in Malling says Ib Gustafsen about his long wait for help: I didn't think it was supposed to be like that. He didn't think it was gonna be like that at all. And I can understand that. For Denmark is precisely built on a social contract, a generation contract that means that we pay a, yes, relatively high tax throughout all our years of work. On the other hand, we also expect that we have a safe and well-being society and that we get a helping hand when we get sick or suffer from unemployment or grow old, so that when, like Ib from Malling, we can no longer handle everything ourselves and he's even made it until he was 93 years old, the community is ready to help; then we get something back of everything we've provided through our lives. That's how Ib from Malling thought it was supposed to be. And so it should be in Denmark. If we are finally going to talk about Danish values, this is one of the most important things in my view. This is one of the hallmarks of us as people and as a country. But this Finance Act and this government are taking us away from that Denmark and away from the values that are so important to us. You talk about welfare and sometimes even solidarity. But their policy leads us in the opposite direction. Let me finish by giving Ib Gustafsen from Malling the floor one last time. He concludes by saying: I just want a little help so that there will be energy to enjoy life as well as possible at my age. And dear Ib, you deserve that help. We owe you that help, and don't wait five months to get that help. Because the expectation that we are there for each other when we need help is so much more important than a thousand tax cuts. And I can promise that Enhedslisten will work hard to ensure that this is the way we go, no matter which government is in power in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110206	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first one's from sir. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110210	It is true that we will have to spend more money on welfare in the future because of all demographic developments. But since it is so dear to Enhedslisten that we can offer help to our elderly people as they need, how does Enhedslisten react to the other part of the problem? One part is the question of whether there is enough money. The other is that we need hands. Just in the SOSU field, the last four months have offered 300 posts that could not be filled, simply because the lack of labour in both the private and indeed in the public welfare sector is really violent. How to get those hands is also for us a very big question. Education and homework are, of course, one thing, but what I would like to ask Enhedslisten is: How do you actually feel about getting help in the form of outside labour? It is, of course, subject to the fulfilment of Danish agreements and so on, but are we really opposed to the free movement of workers? Is it against calling for outside help when you cannot fill the posts, or are you really in favour?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110319-2	We are certainly not opposed to obtaining labour from outside. We think it is a great good thing that you can move to other countries and work. However, the EU rules on the free movement of workers that exist seem to us to have become too much a weapon in the hands of employers to push wages and working conditions. That is why our approach is to have new rules on the movement of workers which ensure that in the jobs occupied in this way, people work on the same conditions and that the trade union movement has the right to conflict. That's one of them. That is why we recently discussed a proposal for a social protocol which, fortunately, is gaining increasing support here in the Danish Parliament, that is to say that Denmark must work for a social protocol in the European Union which ensures that these considerations are taken into account. The Enhedslisten does not mind getting outside labour if we ourselves lack labour at home. And in Europe we can see that there is a huge reserve of labour if you can talk about people like that so I'm not so worried that it should not succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110432	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110433	I am glad to hear that, in principle, there is nothing against it. Then there is the whole of the European Union track, and we do not agree that there are so many problems there, but let it be, because it will take a long time to change in any case. What we are then masters of is those who come from outside, that is from outside the European Union. And when I ask this question, it's because Enhedslisten, together with the Danish People's Party and others, has helped make it much harder to hire foreign labour. Especially if you do not earn so much in wages, it has become harder to enter the Danish labour market. Although we actually lack our hands and do not have enough SOSU assistants and nurses, it has become more difficult for Danish hospitals and nursing homes to get outside help when they cannot get labour at home. So, what's the point? 'Cause if Ib, like mr. Pelle Dragsted referred to, stands and lacks help, why should he then not be able to get it, even if it is perhaps someone from the Philippines who helps for a while?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110531-2	As far as I remember, our approach to labour from what is called third countries is that if you can come here and get a contract on a job on proper pay and working conditions, and if this is an area where we lack labour in Denmark, then we are not in principle opposed to it. It is clear that we also have a concern about the fact that many people are still outside the labour market at home. And I do not like the employers who call a temporary agency in Lithuania because they can get some cheap labour while there are plenty of available labour in their own municipality, because they can get some cheap labour from outside, which may not be organized in a union. So it seems to me that it is a matter of finding a balance between, on the one hand, ensuring that employers do not speculate about this and, on the other hand, that those who live here at home and are here have the opportunity to get a job and not be undercutting, but that, on the other hand, you can also get that labour if necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110624	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110627	Thank you. A discussion that we have both in SF and in Enhedslisten and also in general is the relationship between private schools, free schools and primary school. We can see a development in which many opt out of primary school. There are many reasons for this too many to get into here. But there is also the reason why the government has increased the subsidy to the free schools in several stages. So we just want from SF to be absolutely sure where Enhedslisten is in this discussion, because it's not really about not having free schools in this country... free schools is a really good idea in many places... but there has to be a balance in it. Then Enhedslisten agrees that we have to get back to the level that was before the government stepped in, i.e. 71 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110724	I fully agree that it is a major problem that we see almost an escape from our primary school. I think that is due to a lot of things. I very much believe that this is due to the school reform which the rapporteur's party, I believe, helped to carry out itself and which has meant long school days and other things that make us see it here. This is a development that we must put a stop to. I also fully agree that we have nothing against free schools in the Enhedslisten. We think it is an important part of our tradition, of our history, that there are schools that offer other educational opportunities. But we should not have an unequal development. What are we going to do about it? Is this about cutting grants to the free schools, or is this about raising the primary school? I'm sure we're gonna make our mark at the end. We're not gonna make this a fight between free schools and primary school. We must ensure that the primary school receives the necessary resources. What I was talking about. It also requires that we have room for manoeuvre so that we can keep up with demography, and then we must ensure that schools have proper conditions. I think that may be the most important thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110829	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110830	After all, I agree with Mr. Pelle Dragsted in that there are a lot of things that need to be done. The other day there was also a major study on toilet conditions, where one really was shocked that in today's Denmark it could be so sorry the term "disgustingly" out there in schools. There are many things that need to be done. This is not a fight against free schools, but it is simply to ensure that there is the right balance between free schools and primary schools. From the SF's point of view, it is not a saving that you come back to the level that has been there. Of course it will be, the more you set it up. But just again quite specifically: Will Enhedslisten be involved in setting the level where it has been for many years, namely 71 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222110922	Now I am not a training rapporteur, but as far as I remember back from the recovery plan, the coupling rate was cut and then it was set up again. I don't remember what the historical level is. However, we will not vote if that is what the issue is about the SF's amendments to the Finance Act to cut the economy of free schools. We think it's wrong to make this a fight between public school and free school. We believe that the primary school must be raised. We believe that we must first of all clear up the reform in which the rapporteur's party itself was involved, in relation to the intervention against teachers, which was unacceptable and which has meant a great deal for the functioning of our primary school. Then there is a long discussion about how we can organise our free schools, whether they can take greater social responsibility and everything else. I'd love to go into that if I had more time, but I haven't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111012	The next question is Mr. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111015	Thank you. We have seen on several occasions in the past that the Enhedslisten has announced that it would only support a new S-led government if guarantees were given that foreign policy was relaxed. Is that something that still stands?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111031	I don't think you've seen us quoted that. But let me reply this way: we are part of the opposition; we want a new government, and right now the Social Democratic Party is the largest party in that block; it seems that it is after an election and it would be natural for us to point to Mette Frederiksen as the negotiating leader. But it is clear that we must discuss together what policy that government should pursue. We do not make the ultimate demands for that talk, but it is clear that the policy that that government must pursue must of course also reflect the parties that support it, just as the Danish People's Party naturally also expects the government they support to reflect what they stand for. Now we have to see if they stand firm in the spring. But there's not that much hocuspocus in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111128	The rapporteur should remember to address the questioner in the third person we do not use the word you in this Chamber. The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111135	Thank you. I do not know whether the rapporteur is suffering from such remembrance or general pitifulness, but it is quite clear to most people that there has been a debate in the Enhedslisten about it, and the political leader has reported quite forcefully that you were rather tired of what you were exposed to under the former S-led government, where you were quite clearly run over sometimes, for example. in connection with the fact that the former S-government carried out top tax concessions and also ensured that municipal budgets could be linked. And there was actually a minus growth in municipal budgets under an SR government, which contrasts somewhat with what we are hearing now. There, too, in connection with the debates by Enhedslisten, we have clearly announced: Where are the red lines compared to the Enhedslisten? And one of them has just been this one... you've been thundering against the austerity we've been doing together with, for example. Danish People's Party in relation to foreign policy. And that certainly had to be changed. So it is quite clear that these were some of the things you wanted to pull up very hard. But I can hear now that there may be some wavering. Or is it still gone what is at hand? Are you going to point it out, or are you just going to say it's okay, just keep going?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111246	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111247	Well, I can promise you there it was again!), regrets, the questioner, that Enhedslisten will fight from house to house for change, including in the field of foreign policy. And an obvious question is, for example. the issue that has been discussed in recent days on quota refugees. It is quite clear that it will be a crucial issue for us that a new government will put an end to the embarrassment that Denmark, as the only country in the world, does not accept quota refugees. There is also a great deal that can be done in the area of integration and in many other places. Of course, in all policy areas, we will fight for our influence. And then it is the voters who decide how the Folketing is composed and how far we can go about what we are fighting for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111334	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111338	I would like to ask Enhedslisten how high the tax burden should be in Denmark. After all, we have the highest tax burden in the whole OECD. The Enhedslisten is always against it when we make some minor tax cuts, even if we only maintain the tax burden on the status quo and have not had it seriously reduced in recent years. If we had followed Enhedslisten's policy, we would have had a much higher tax burden than we have today, because then all the tax cuts we have made would not have come through. So how high are we going to get into tax pressure? Let's put a distance down to no. 2 and, if so, how much more than 50 per cent. Do we have to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111414	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111414-2	First of all, this is where we have the highest tax burden in the world, in dispute, because it is a discussion about what we recognise. We pay, for example. tax on transfer income, and it pulls up our tax burden; on the other hand, the child's check with us is a check instead of tax, and that is how things are pulling in the wrong direction. But actually, I think that the discussion about tax pressure is a little silly if you don't talk about what you get for the money. Well, you can put the tax down, but if you then introduce user charges when you go to the hospital or send your children to school or to education, then you don't call it tax pressure anymore, but for the individual it doesn't matter. I think it was Martin Thorborg, a serial entrepreneur who had lived for a few years in the United States, who said that when he made up his expenses he had children, he had to pay health insurance, he had to pay for their education, then he escaped cheaper in Denmark than he did in the United States because there was so much user fees. So I think that this debate on taxation is a little silly. One has to ask: what is it that we get for the money we pay? And then, at least, everything that is user-paid in other countries must also be taken into account when comparing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111516	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111518	The tax burden is a very specific and well-defined one on which the OECD has clear definitions. It's not like you can sit here and say whether you have to figure one out or whether you have to figure out the other. It's completely well-defined. There's no point in Mr. Pelle Dragsted is shaking his head because it is, and we cannot discuss whether we have the highest tax burden in the OECD, because we do. That is what the OECD says, and they must be the authority, in relation to whether we have the highest tax burden in the OECD. It must be the OECD that makes those statements. So you can't talk around and say, "Well, there's all sorts of other things you could do if you wanted to." - Sir... Pelle Dragsted confirm that there is a definition of the tax burden and that the OECD shows that Denmark has the highest tax burden in the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111603	I think the rapporteur should google tax pressure and find the page on the Tax Ministry's website which describes the tax burden and which exactly describes these issues that I am talking about, for example. the question of whether or not to pay tax on transfer income and how it affects the tax burden in, for example, the United Kingdom. two countries, so that in one country they pay the transfer income without tax and those in the other country pay the transfer income and they have been taxed. It will affect the tax burden, and therefore you cannot just compare the two countries one to one. It's not something I'm inventing. That's how it is. But let me just address the fundamental question: do we think that the tax burden is too high? No, we don't think so. Do we think that anyone in Denmark could deserve tax relief? Certainly, but we think they should then be paid by asking some of those who have received the really big discounts to pay a little more to the community again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111645	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the Enhedslisten rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222111655	Thank you for that, President. After a long, grueling and intense negotiation process, it is now gratifying that a historically large tax agreement has finally fallen into place • an historic agreement that includes both a reduction in corporation tax and the tax on the last earned crown. In fact, it is the most comprehensive tax agreement in over 30 years. For us, it is of course a small line in the bill that it has been adopted in the United States. However, although the Finance Act may not quite provide for tax relief in the region of $1,500 billion, it does indeed contain a large number of good elements which I would like to highlight. We remove the taxation of employer-paid telephones and the Internet. This means that by 2020 almost 500,000 employees will no longer be taxed because they will have a working tool available. In general, I believe that the Folketing should refrain from levying such special taxes. It's a relic from a time when having a phone was very exclusive. Time has simply run out of that arrangement. For most, an employer's phone is not a gift but a task. This includes being available, even outside normal office hours. We're happy to change the fact that it's even gonna have to be specially taxed so hard. The first and most important task of the state is to guarantee the safety of its citizens. Police and defence budgets must match that task. The budgets should not be larger than necessary, but now it is necessary for the budgets to be larger. Bands are shooting in the streets, and former great powers are rattling with the saber. The security threat to Denmark has reached a level that we have not seen in decades. That is why this financial law strengthens the police force and the defence is expected to be strengthened in the context of a new defence settlement, and we are very pleased with that. Today, when gang members come out of prison, the public boxes are open. It's too soft. With this financial law, we ensure that a number of benefits cannot be received after they have been released from gang crime. Participation in the destabilisation of society represented by the gangs must have severe consequences. In the Liberal Alliance in 2015, we chose to make it cheaper to drive over Storebælt. It is a good principle that it is the user who pays, but the Storebælt Bridge has evolved into a money machine. When the price suddenly goes far beyond the cost, it is no longer a question of user charges, but of extra taxation. There is no good argument for drivers on the Storebælt Bridge to pay more taxes than everyone else. So now we're going to lower the price of crossing Storebælt by 25%. for the benefit of the many commuters and companies who depend on using the bridge every day. This is a very good element for which we have been working for many years. We are also getting rid of the envy tax introduced in 2011, namely the so-called compensatory tax. Citizens who had saved up a lot for their old age were simply punished with an extra tax. We have always been strongly opposed to this because we must then encourage people to save so that they can take care of themselves, even when they can no longer work. This envy tax is finally being removed by this Finance Act. The agreement raises the coupling rate for free and private schools again this year. With the Finance Laws for 2016 and 2017, the switching rate has already been raised from 71 to 75%, and with this agreement it is raised to 76 per cent. The grant is targeted at pupils with special needs. We often have to listen to the fact that free schools undermine primary school. I find it very difficult to see that free schools are responsible for the ills of a reform school. Parents move their children because they do not see that the public offer is in order. The problem is not that the free and private schools provide too good education, but that the primary school does not deliver one that is good enough. The reason for this development is probably political rather than resource. Opponents of a higher switching rate often argue that free schools only take the children of well-off parents. It is just not very good that students in free schools are socio-economically similar to pupils in primary school. There is not the social divide as it is claimed there is. On the contrary, there is a private and free school system which solves an important social task. With the Finance Act, we support that they can increasingly help the weakest pupils. I do not think that anyone will give the Liberal Alliance very good styles on top of the debate on this Finance Act. We have made mistakes which have helped the process to become unsightly. We'll probably take some deserving beatings for that, and I imagine that some of them will be handed out today. But, after all, politics should be about political content, not about process. It is political content that makes a difference in the everyday life of the Danes and which determines how prosperous and successful a nation Denmark should be. We want the tax to be lower in Denmark. Lower taxes in Denmark are a means of more personal freedom. It is a mystery to me that the left has had such a strained relationship with lower taxes. In the third verse of the International, the old red battle song about the working class, it says: and we are torn by the sharp claw of the treasure. In Denmark we have the world's highest tax burden. Nowhere does the tax claw penetrate deeper. In the tax debate that we are about to resume, we can take an important step in which we really think that all bourgeois parties and also parties on the left should be able to see themselves. In recognition of the fact that only one third of the Danish Parliament wants to lower the tax on the last earned crown, that element has been pulled out. It is, however, a mystery and completely incomprehensible to me that a majority cannot be gathered to lower the tax on the last earned crown. It is still quite ordinary employees as metal workers and nurses who pay as much as 56 per cent. of the last earned crown. So they work more for the welfare state than they do for themselves. Nevertheless, lower marginal tax is packed away, and there are two central pillars left. Firstly, we must tackle the problem of interaction. It's a bottom-up job. It must pay to save up for your own old age. In Denmark, we have made a number of special services aimed at older people without the means to take care of themselves. It is sympathetic, but every targeting poses an opposing problem, because suddenly it may be attractive to make sure that you are in the target group. People are not willing to save if they have to both pay a high tax and then experience losing the right to benefits, so that overall there is no gain from savings. This is an important economic agenda. The state simply cannot afford to provide the very large benefits to all, and the state finances are not linked if people do not save up for their own old age. But it is also an important moral agenda. Punishing those who save and spending resources on those who do not is fundamentally unreasonable. The second pillar is about lowering the tax on people in work. We have had a long discussion about whether working is worthwhile. It is the clear view of the Liberal Alliance that the current difference between transfer income and labour income is too small. There must be a noticeable difference in living conditions for those who go to work compared with those who sit at home on the couch. Individuals should be able to see the meaning of going to work. It is about fairness and it is about employment. But for the Liberal Alliance, it is also about the citizen being allowed to dispose of more and the state less, and that families in Denmark simply have more and better opportunities than they have today. Danish private consumption as a share of GDP is the seventh lowest in the OECD, and consumer prices are the highest in the EU. If you listen to how we talk about private consumption in Denmark, you understand. A little less insane overtaxation of cars is immediately called a Ferrari reform. And the kitchen of conversation has become the ultimate symbol of morally corrupt overuse. Sometimes you might think that the political conversation in Denmark is a bit like an extremely sluggish parent meeting in 9. B. No one will be accused of being a bad parent. A mood is whipped up about less alcohol and less smoking, healthier diets and less pocket money. In Danish politics there is little room for an ambition that it may also be a little fun to be here, and that the goal of life is not only that we live as long as possible and pay as much as possible in taxes. We must not be reduced to gears in the great machinery of the welfare state. We think it is a huge step forward that ordinary people over time have got a little more consumption that enables them to travel, to drive, to drink red wine and yes, to talk during cooking. If it's up to us, that's exactly what we need more of. There must be a larger space to unfold in, also economically. Less state, more community. Of course, the Liberal Alliance will continue to fight for this in 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222112701	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222112706	Thank you. I would like to ask a whole question of principle. How does the rapporteur really feel about the debate that is going on between the Danish People's Party and the government, that is, the kind of trade or the wreath, or whatever you would call it? I know that politics sometimes trade. But how does the rapporteur really feel about the fact that in order to have some reductions in taxes, and you do not even get what you would like to have in the Liberal Alliance, you have to be prepared to accept something in a completely different area, which has nothing to do with tax policy at all and which, for example, has nothing to do with it? Can't we now know what ends up with refugee children growing up in some closed camps with no connection to other people, perhaps for many years? Does the rapporteur just feel good about it in his stomach, so it is fine that this is the way it is, so that you get a little in relation to taxes, and then in return the Danish People's Party gets to shut some children in some camps?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222112822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222112823	After all, politics is about making compromises with each other. With regard to the entire refugee agenda, it is of course the case that we are all moving in the right direction in the blue block. In contrast to the left, where I sense there are strong and great differences, from the Enhedslisten to the Social Democratic Party, about the direction to be taken, it is actually the case that we agree on the direction in this respect. We want a tighter policy on foreigners. Personally, I think it is quite reasonable that when you have some refugees in Denmark on a temporary basis and you notice that people in other countries and in the neighbourhoods are returning to the areas from which the refugees who are here in Denmark have fled, you are looking at how to get a process going so that they also return home. Because it has never been intended that obtaining asylum in Denmark, having a temporary stay, should be such a way of getting permanent residence in Denmark. So I think it makes sense for us to look at this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222112934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222112935	That may sound reasonable, the problem is that many of the conflicts take 10, 15 or 20 years. This means that we have people who come to, for example. to live in camps for 10, 15, 20 years and may never return, and then they are not integrated, and then we face the problem. So it's not that simple. But it was actually more in relation to the principle. I don't quite recognize that picture of a blue block just pulling in the same direction. I don't think that's the impression the Danes have got through the last month. But I think that is fair enough if that is the way the rapporteur actually feels in his belly, so that you actually think that what the Danish People's Party is asking for is okay, that that is what you agree with. And yes, politics is about compromises, but often in the same areas... that's what I'm having a little trouble with. What is the rapporteur's position on this trade, which accepts something completely over in one area in order to get something in another area?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113019	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113020	Well, isn't that what compromises are sometimes? It's a trade. There is something more important for some, and then they give something in another area. That's politics. I do not know how it worked when Enhedslisten was the support party for a social democratic government and how much influence Enhedslisten actually got. I guess some people think they didn't get much, I shouldn't be smarter about that. I just note that in a whole range of areas we are in the right direction. Of course there are differences, otherwise we would not be in different political parties. But in these areas we are in the right direction, and I am very comfortable with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113101	The next question is Mr. Morten Bødskov, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113104	Thank you for that, President. If you have followed the debate this way over the last few weeks, you may well feel sorry for the Liberal Alliance. First, the top tax relief had to go all the way up and with steely eyes down by 5%, and then it failed. Then you came into government, and then you thought you could handle it from there. Then we were allowed to try to implement a financial law which, with the rapporteur's own escapades on Twitter, we had to understand was only adopted if there was a correspondingly large tax agreement with historic tax cuts, the biggest tax concessions in the memory of the man. That is why the question to the rapporteur is very simple: do we still believe that top tax concessions will be made with this government?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113159	No, we do not believe that top tax concessions will be made. It's been put away a long time ago, and we think that's too bad. When Mr. Morten Bødskov was in government, he helped to vote through, that the top tax limit was changed and that many people were pulled completely out of the top tax line. That was the one element of the tax reform that Mr. Morten Bødskov's government carried out, which increased employment the most. That is why it is quite strange and strange that the Social Democratic Party has now received such an aversion against some who have to pay less in top tax. But it's kind of been taken off the table, among other things. It is also because the Social Democrats lie in the hammock when they are in opposition. There are two Social Democrats in Denmark: what is in government and what can well figure out how to take responsibility sometimes and also make tax reforms that lower the tax on the last earned crown, and then what is in opposition, where you do not want to be involved in anything. And I think that's super bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113251	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113253	It was a clear answer: the party, which has fought most fiercely and has promised the Danes historicly great tax reductions, at least the biggest in man's memory, is now quite clear in today's debate that there will be no top tax reductions. The next question to the rapporteur is: if you are going to make a tax reform, will you ensure that the tax reliefs are paid to those you are fighting for go to the lower groups in our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113326	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113327	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that in the rapporteur's view, which I fully agree with, it is the Liberal Alliance that has fought most hard to reduce the tax on the last crown earned. I fully agree with that, and I think that is right. But it has always been the case that it has been an element of the policy we have put forward ourselves and which we got through by Bjarne Corydon when he was Minister of Finance. In other words, we have always wanted to lower taxes at the bottom, and that is why I think that this discussion about historicly large tax cuts sometimes becomes a little weird. I do not understand why the Social Democratic Party does not think it should be able to and if we want to lower the tax at the bottom of those with the lowest incomes, it will of course cost quite a lot of money, because it is a matter of a lot of people. But the Social Democrats will not be helping to reduce taxes on those with the lowest incomes, we must understand. There is not much Labour Party over Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113426	The next question is Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113430	Thank you. One of the most important changes in relation to what we hope to adopt later this day, compared with the government's initiative, is the much more money spent in the area of the elderly. I just want to hear from the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur whether this is one of the changes in relation to the government's proposals that are particularly satisfied with in the Liberal Alliance or whether it was something that was best left out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113455	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113456	No, we're glad about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113501	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113502	To understand the rapporteur quite clearly: when the government proposal was not more ambitious, it was simply because the Left and the Conservative People's Party were dragging on the Liberal Alliance and saying: no more money is going to be spent in the public sector, you must quiet down a little in the Liberal Alliance, your ambitions for more public spending should simply not be so high?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113523	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113525	It is quite clear that we want the public sector to be made more efficient. We have the words of the Productivity Commission for that. The Productivity Commission specifically referred to the area of older people as an area where the same service can be provided with less money, and we think that is the task that should be addressed first. However, in our own 2025 plan, which we got through by the Ministry of Finance before the elections, we have also taken account of demographic pressure. In other words, we should start to streamline and, in recognition of the fact that there are more elderly people, we must, of course, add some money corresponding to the demographic features. So that's what you gotta do. This is where you add money, so you get up on the demographic move. But it should not be a secret that we also think we should start looking at whether we could not get anything more out of the 0.5 or so bio. kr. that you spend on public spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113617	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113620	Thank you. Fortunately, I have seen here today, there has actually not been much debate about the process of tax negotiations against restrictions on foreigners, and I really think that is very good. I have a great deal of respect for the Liberal Alliance's desire for tax relief. That's one of the things the Liberal Alliance has gone to the polls on. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur whether it is not possible to compromise too much anyway. In other words, when you look at the demands that have come from the Danish People's Party to the restrictions on foreigners, they are in complete contradiction to what the Liberal Alliance stands for. For what the Liberal Alliance stands for, as I have seen from the refugee policy of the Liberal Alliance, is precisely that the refugees who come to Denmark should be allowed to work. I don't want them fading in refugee centers. They're going to work right away. Now I will not say the order, but that is almost what is stated in the Liberal Alliance's own refugee initiative. That is why I ask the rapporteur: is it not a problem that tax relief and so that these extreme demands for immigration restrictions have been so markedly raised against each other? How does the rapporteur feel about this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113738	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113739	Well, I am in the situation that it is not only the Liberal Alliance that believes that refugees in Denmark should be self-supporting when they are here. We must ensure that they are in employment, because if they are not in employment, then it will only cost more to have refugees in Denmark. We're talking about these famous 33 billion. kr., which immigrants from third countries cost the Danish Treasury every year, similar to what we spend on upper secondary and higher education. That is why it is extremely important that the bill be brought down, and that is why it is our clear view • and it is also the government's view that, of course, refugees should be self-supporting as far as possible. It should just not be the case that being self-supporting becomes an entrance to obtaining permanent residence permits in Denmark. It must be the case that you have to support yourself; but when you can return to the country from which you have fled, you have to do so, and there it should not count extra that you have been in employment while you have been in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113836	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113837	One of the demands that has been on the table, as can be understood by the media, is precisely that the refugees should not get out to work. It is, of course, a fundamental element of Liberal Alliance policy that we should have the opportunity to live and work outside asylum centres and it cannot go quickly enough because that is exactly where they have the opportunity to integrate. That is also what it says in the Liberal Alliance's own party programme. So it's not really true that there's agreement in the blue block about this policy. In other words, the Liberal Alliance must feel very, very bad about allowing people to go to asylum centres without being able to enter the labour market. One must feel really bad about the IGU being negotiated, despite the fact that it actually has a very good effect on refugees getting to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113926	Just as far as the IGU is concerned, we voted against it when it was adopted at the time, because we did not think that the fact that you came to Denmark, that you entered the IGU and thus could get on the daily allowance, was the right way to do things. So we can help to talk about that. However, there are, of course, political differences between the governing parties and the government's support party in this area, in other words whether refugees should be in employment when they are here or whether they should not be in employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222113958	The next question is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114001	Thank you. I would actually like to continue along the same lines, especially after what Mr. Joachim B. Olsen just said. Is the Liberal Alliance behind the tripartite agreement between the Danish employers and employees and the state, which is, after all, an attempt to achieve faster and better integration and which has actually succeeded? It is one in three of the refugees who came in 2015 who, as I understand it, are now in work and can support themselves and their families. I can only imagine that we agree is the right way to go. It is good for Danish business, it is good for the refugees themselves, it is good for integration. I just want to make sure, and there the IGU has also been mentioned, that the Liberal Alliance supports the tripartite agreement and, of course, continues to support the tripartite agreement reached by the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114052	As a governing party, we are, of course, automatically part of the agreements of which the other governing parties are part. But that should not prevent me from saying what is quite factual, namely that when the IGU was dealt with in the Assembly and when we were not a governing party, we voted against. So the position of the Liberal Alliance is that we fully agree with the intention that refugees should be self-supporting. I don't want to hold them against anyone. There must be low benefits, and people must be on the labour market and on their own. But we do not regard the IGU as a great success. It is relatively bureaucratic, it has not led to very high levels of employment, and we do not think there should be such a system which becomes a springboard into a benefit system. And if you first get into it as a fugitive, there is no longer any gain from having a low - wage job.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114149	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114150	But now a tripartite agreement has been reached, so let me ask you a little more directly: does the rapporteur not agree that if the government suddenly starts to run out of the tripartite agreement, a few months after it was concluded, it will, in addition to having quite fatal economic consequences in terms of poor integration and human consequences, in terms of those people having to go on public support rather than being allowed to contribute to the community, actually have consequences for the whole way we organise labour market policy in this country? I mean, I'm really just out to hear 'cause we know that the Liberal Alliance will give a lot of money for tax breaks if there isn't a limit if it's about bombing a tripartite agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114231	There are limits to everything. But now there is a debate which starts here after New Year, among other things. on foreigners as well. Then we'll see where it leads. It is so well known that there are different views among the governing parties, which I actually believe are among the red parties and in the red bloc. Then we'll have to try to figure it out the best way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114300	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114302	Now Mr. Joachim B. Olsen was International, but he forgot a few lines. In addition to tearing off the sharp claw of the treasure, the rich can also sleep, and the kings of gold have never had a goal other than to thrive on the labor of the proletarian. I don't think that's the last of it, sir. Joachim B. Olsen mentioned. But when he says that the left has a strained relationship to tax relief, it is not true compared to the time that the song is written in. For there it was a real and revolutionary task to fight against these taxes, which only benefited a tiny elite, the king, the nobility, and the burdens were on the narrowest shoulders. Fortunately, then, we had another society in which it was said that the widest shoulders should bear the most and that we should pay for a common society where those who were not born with a golden spoon in their mouth can also receive education and so on. My question is: does Mr. Joachim B. Olsen really that the tax concessions that came in, for example. The business package, does the ordinary Dane benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114412	Well, I definitely forgot a lot of lines in Internationale. I also forgot the one that says: "We are hung under state and laws'. I clearly believe that this business package is of benefit to ordinary people. Well, now it is not because I am as concerned about the success of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that is to say that we must all obviously end up with the same income. I am certainly in favour of the broadest shoulders carrying the heaviest burdens. This will also be the case with the tax policy of the Liberal Alliance. There it will be the case that a top tax payer pays seven times as much in tax as someone who has a low income. So it will be the same with our tax system too if you completely remove the top tax. And that's the way it's supposed to be. But, yes, one of the things that increases inequality the least is when you lower taxes. I think we should do that, not because of inequality, but because I think it is right to lower some of the crazy taxes such as nut taxes and other things. And I'm a little sorry that Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is having a problem with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114526	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114527	Now Mr. Joachim B. Olsen longs for the American tax reform. It is a reform that supposedly gives Warren Buffett, one of the richest men in the world, a tax relief of 200 billion. kr. Fortunately, things are not so bad here in Denmark. But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says that the business package benefits ordinary people. I can then inform the rapporteur that 90%. of the Danes receive less than 200 DKK. out of it, whereas the 1,000 richest get just under 80,000 kroner. I mean, are there proportions in it? There are not even jobs in it, we have heard. Well, is that something that benefits ordinary people?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114604	Well, of course, ordinary people benefit when you remove taxes and when you make it more advantageous to invest in companies. It does. This increases, for example. productivity in companies compared to new machinery, new technology, new buildings, and this makes the workforce more worthwhile and leads to higher real wages in companies. So the zero-sum game that the Left and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would like to talk about in relation to the economy just does not fit in with the real world. There is also a reason why people with the lowest incomes in the United States and Denmark and other countries with a market economy are very, very wealthy and have a very high standard of living compared to those in countries where there is no market economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114653	The next question is Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114656	Thank you. I must be honest and admit that I had both believed in and expected a little more humility from the rapporteur in his rapporteur's speech. With the very chaotic course we have been through, in particular with the rapporteur's party, I think it had dressed the rapporteur with a little more humility. I think that there was such an underlying tone that both in the broad sense of the Danish Parliament, but also in the population, we are both stupid and mean because we do not want to contribute to lower taxes. But the rapporteur's problem is that the Danes do not agree with the rapporteur. There is a very large majority of Danes who give priority to welfare before tax relief is granted. That is also what leads me to my question, because it is indeed what the President of the Danish People's Party has said here in the last few days, namely that welfare comes before tax cuts. There I would like to hear the rapporteur: what are the expectations of spring negotiations? Does the rapporteur believe that it is possible to make an historically large tax reform with historically large tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114805	In relation to asking the Danes whether the tax should be reduced, one could also have asked the Danes whether it should be worth saving up for pension. Is it reasonable that the 3F, which saves up for pension, does not benefit from it compared to the 3F, which does not save up for pension? Then I think that many Danes had said that of course it must pay to save up for pension. If you had asked the Danes if it is a good idea to lower the tax at the bottom, so that the cash help recipient who gets into work actually gets something out of it, I also think that there are many who think that it is okay. Moreover, we should not listen so much to what people are saying, but we should look at what people are actually doing, and this is also true of political parties such as the Social Democracy, for example, which havecelerated over tax cuts and registration tax reductions and everything else, and then when they come up here on the platform they say that they are voting for them and not going to roll them back. That's what the reality is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114903	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114904	The rapporteur is wrong. We haven'tcelated over anything. We are, of course, a party which, through many rounds in our history, including in our recent history, has made tax reforms. This is also one of the reasons why we do not think that there is a need to provide further tax relief right now because we did a tax reform in 2012, which has not even been phased in yet. However, the rapporteur did not answer my question as regards the fact that the chairman of the Danish People's Party says that in his optics, the Danish People's Party's optics, welfare comes before tax cuts are to be granted. What expectations does it give the rapporteur and his party in the spring negotiations, which are hoped for again, again to provide historicly large tax reliefs?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222114947	After all, there are some tasks that need to be solved. I think everyone agrees with that. I have said that it must be worth saving up for retirement. So it costs some money. This requires the introduction of deductions which make it possible for people to actually pay pensions. We think we should lower the tax at the bottom. It's always been LA's policy. I actually sense that there is agreement on that too. I remember that Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen wrote a post in Politiken, where he harcelereted against the left being given such a strained relationship to lower taxes. This was in the context of the 2012 tax reform and the whole Karina case, etc. That's where Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also said that one should lower the tax at the bottom, but it is always the case that it is only just when the Social Democracy has done so that it is good, but when the rest of us want to continue down the same path, it is a great disaster. I find that very, very strange and I think it has more to do with political teasing than with substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115047	I can tell those who begin to sit and be little hungry that I intend to allow the meeting to continue until approx. 8:00 p.m. 12.15 so that we finish this round. The next question is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115059	I would also like to welcome the fact that the announced top tax concessions have been abandoned. This is not something that we in the Social Democratic Party and the Danes in general have wanted. But I think it is interesting to follow up on what my colleague Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen asked what was going to happen in the spring. We're sitting here with a whole Parliament and we're excited about it. So can the rapporteur not make us wiser about what is in Dynamitanders' belt in the spring? Where's the red line in the spring?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115134	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115135	What is going to happen in the spring is that we are going to negotiate foreigners and we are going to negotiate taxes. Then I have just, and it is widely known, tried to outline what kind of problems we think need to be solved. Mrs Trine Bramsen does not think it should be worth saving up for retirement, I understand. Mrs Trine Bramsen does not believe that it should be possible for the 3F to be able to save up for retirement. We think so. We believe that the tax on work should be reduced. Mrs Trine Bramsen did the same last time she was part of a government party. That's when she meant it. We still think so. We also believe that foreign policy must be tightened up. Mrs Trine Bramssen now thinks so. She hasn't always done that. Then we'll have to sit down and figure it out together and see where it lands. But what it is all about for us is how we create a Denmark, where citizens keep a little more of the money they have earned themselves by going to work. It is not Mrs Trine Bramsen's money that we are talking about here. There are some people who go to work, sell their labour and their time, and then we think they should be allowed to keep a little more of that money, instead of Mrs Trine Bramsen being allowed to spend it on what she would like to spend it on.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115246	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115248	The best defense is always an attack, one must understand the rapporteur, and if it is an untrue attack, it seems to be better than a proper attack. It is certainly not true what the rapporteur says about social democracy. But that does not change the fact that the rapporteur does not actually answer my question. It is very simple: where is the red line for the Liberal Alliance in the spring? I have the expectation that the financial rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance will be able to respond to that. Does the Liberal Alliance not have any political desires for the negotiations that are due to take place in the spring? Where do the boundaries go?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115323	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115324	In fact, now we have become wiser, because now the Social Democrats also believe that the tax should be reduced. It's a new break. Mrs Trine Bramsen recognises that saving up for pension must be worthwhile. It's gonna take lower taxes. Thank you. Perhaps then we could get some of the Socialists who constantly problematize that the rest of us want to lower taxes to have a slightly more nuanced view of the matter. Then a cadeau for it. It is the case that now we go in and negotiate, and that is what I have to say to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115358	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115401	Thank you very much, sir. President. The rapporteur would like us to save on public expenditure, less state and more I do not remember what it was Olsen Society, Mr. Christian Juhl!), yes, community. I also agree with that with regard to the unnecessary costs, and it could be that we could meet on a single item of expenditure. 84 billion kr. It's a sloppy money, though. We use them every year for the 61 000 people affected by an accident at work because there are some employers who do not want or can provide a proper working environment. What if we could save the 84 billion? kr. Then the state would save money, then the injured would save money, then the employers would save money. Nobody would lose because we made an improvement here. Now that the Liberal Alliance has once again provided for a financial law cutting the Labour Inspectorate to control the small group of employers who are not behaving properly in this area, how are you going to ensure that we reduce this amount?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115505	But that is not true, that is to say, it is simply not correct what is being said. Sir. Christian Juhl takes a figure that covers the fact that there will be some reported work injuries. That's exactly what, sir. Christian Juhl does. He takes all reported occupational injuries, but the figure to be taken into account is, of course, occupational injuries. Many people report occupational injuries, but not everyone gets a job injury. So it is manipulation of the worst degree when Mr. Christian Juhl is trying to create the impression that 84 billion could be saved. kr. in that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115538	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115539	I asked you something else. The Minister for Employment tells us that all these accidents, whether or not it is 61,000, cost society and employers 84 billion. kr. It is in the terms of reference of the new committee and I am shocked by that figure, because I thought it was down to about 60 billion. kr. That's 84 billion. kr., says the Ministry of Employment, and the rapporteur must discuss this with the Minister for Employment. I just want to hear how the Liberal Alliance is going to make sure that fewer people get hurt and that this amount is being reduced?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115622	The debate on the 84 billion. kr. We have to go at another time. But for us it is absolutely important, just as it is for everyone else, that there is a good working environment. There are many things that make sure there are. First of all, there is the basic mechanism for employers in a market to compete with each other, including attracting the best labour force, including ensuring that there are good working conditions. Then there is legislation that must be complied with, because of course there must be legislation. And we have a Labour Inspectorate that does, and we allocate more resources to it in Denmark than you do in any other country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115703	The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115705	Thank you. Actually, I wanted to ask you something else. But when I hear the rapporteur now and also the Liberal Alliance in Danish politics at all at the moment, I have such a question that often arises, and that is: where did liberalism go? And here I mean the classical political liberalism, as we know it and understand it, which means that all citizens must be guaranteed the social opportunity to have a dignified life of self-respect. That is what classical liberalism is all about, at least according to Rawls, and which also means that limitations on the basis of ethnicity, skin colour, religion and what I know are unfair in classical political liberalism. Because the restrictions are precisely the result of depriving citizens of the same capacity to contribute to the liberal state that I assume the Liberal Alliance would like to have. So how are we to understand the Liberal Alliance in Danish politics at the moment when the party goes in and votes in favour and advocates limitations that apply to certain sections of the population? Is it a benefit for integration that one should not dress as one wants, that one does not all be equal in this country when the party claims to be a liberal party at the same time?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115818	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115818-2	First of all, putting Rawls into such a liberalist tradition is quite an insult. He doesn't belong there. He believes in something like this about us all growing up behind a veil of ignorance. Well, he's a social-constructiveist. He's not a liberal. There is no liberal who sees him as part of any liberal tradition. Liberalism is doing very, very well in the Liberal Alliance. Our policy is completely unchanged. It has been worked through and we are a liberal party. And it is primarily about individual freedom, the right to live your life as you like, as long as you do not harm others. And that is why we do not have a problem with such a thing as the benefit of integration, as mentioned, because it is given at the expense of others. There are others who have to give some of their freedom, so that you can give some money to people who come here and who are not Danes and who have never helped to build this society. We think that is fair. We also think it is sensible, because, of course, if those people are to become part of society, they must be able to pay for working. And fortunately, everything suggests that it works really well. And the best social policy is to ensure that people get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222115936-2	But I fully agree with the rapporteur on the latter point. That is why I hope that the rapporteur's party will fight to ensure that the achievements achieved in this area continue. But that is not true when the rapporteur says that liberal politics is being pursued. For the rapporteur's party does not give everyone in this country equal opportunities to contribute to the state. This is not the case when some people get a service that is smaller than others, despite being in exactly the same place. Well, I just miss the classic liberal in Liberal Alliance politics and in government too, for that matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120015	Well, listen to what the rapporteur says. So let us have a cup of coffee and talk about liberalism, because there is something the rapporteur has to learn. The rapporteur says that we do not all have equal opportunities to contribute to the state. It certainly has nothing to do with liberalism, that everyone should have equal opportunities to contribute to the state. I'll tell you what. Liberalism is about individual freedom. It's about us all being equal before the law. Whatever faith, color, sexuality, etc. We are all equal before the law, and we have the right to live our lives as we please. We can go our own way, or we can go with others. It's freedom from coercion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120100	I would ask you to pay attention to the speaking time so that as many people as possible can speak. The next in line is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120105	Thank you for this social science class, and now back to the debates of the spring in the government and with the parliamentary basis. I took note when the rapporteur replied to Mr McMillan-Scott's question. Jeppe Jakobsen's question, that we should understand it so that the reason why the promise in the area of the elderly that we see now was not part of the government's proposal was that the Liberal Alliance was beaten in place by the Left and Conservatives, who would not be involved in spending money on this kind of public spending, and the Liberal Alliance can now rejoice that the Danish People's Party has negotiated that money for the elderly. It's a slightly different picture than what I thought had happened, but thank you for that. Following on from that, I would just like to ask the rapporteur a question. After all, we now have to negotiate here after New Year, and on Wednesday we could hear the Danish People's Party's finance rapporteur say something wise during the discussion of B 28, namely that one should reserve part of the room for manoeuvre to follow the demography, so that one is sure that one has money for welfare. You can debureaucratize, you can simplify, you can optimize the public sector. After all, the rapporteur's party can do that at any time, now that they are in government offices, but as far as the basic idea of reserving some money that is not used for tax cuts is concerned, because you want them to be used to ensure welfare when there are more elderly people, does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur agree with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats that this should be the basis for spring negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120226	First of all, I would like to say that no one has been beaten in place. So, the government has come up with a proposal for a Finance Act, and it has been negotiated with the Danish People's Party. I have to admit that it is well known, it is no secret that the Danish People's Party wanted even more money to be spent in the area of the elderly. So when I said that we were satisfied, it is because we are satisfied with the overall result. It's a relatively tight financial law. I think it's gonna land at 0.6%. in public consumption. The one-percent talk is due to the fact that we had a low level of public spending last year. So we're kind of happy. We have historically low public spending right now, and it is important in a situation of capacity pressure on the Danish labour market that not only a whole lot of money is spent in the public sector, which will increase the capacity pressure. It is a responsible economic policy and, of course, we are very sorry that the Social Democrats will not pursue a responsible economic policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120326	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120327	I'm just trying to ask you another way. Then maybe I'll actually get an answer. It follows that Mrs Trine Bramsen tried to get the rapporteur to say a little about the red lines of the Liberal Alliance in the spring negotiations. The logic of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, Mr. René Christensen, on Wednesday, was such that it is not the size of public consumption completely isolated that counts, but that is also what it is used for, and I fully agree with that. However, one cannot know in advance how successful it is to be effective. We can see that, for example. in the area of the elderly, so far, no proposals have been put forward by the Liberal Alliance's older rapporteur. That is why it is wise that the logic of the Danish People's Party rapporteur, whom I share, was to reserve some of the room for manoeuvre that is not passionate about tax cuts, namely the size of the demographic trait, so that you do not suddenly have your hair in the mailbox and do not have the money needed to ensure the quality of our hospitals and our care for the elderly and all the other things we share. I think this is very wise and there is a majority in the Folketing behind it. What does the Liberal Alliance say about that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120424	After all, we now have the situation that we have a government which has an ambition that public consumption should be 0.3 per cent. After all, we have been quite honest about the fact that we do not want public consumption to follow the demographic trend. It is, of course, a crazy technocratic approach to politics that we take some kind of computational concept over from the Ministry of Finance, and then we elevate it to something that will make us, if we do not follow it, less well-being. That's terrible nonsense. We must then understand that in some of the years under the Social Democratic Party, there was less growth in public spending. So the public service has been destroyed when you were in government. I mean, honestly, it's just not serious. It is quite legitimate political to want to increase public spending, but don't tell people that as long as you increase public spending in line with demographic trends, everything is gold and green forests.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120520	I have to remind you once again of the speaking time so that we can reach as many people as possible. The next is Mrs Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120528	Thank you. This year's Finance Act raises the coupling rate from 75 to 76 in the free and private schools. It's historically high, it's never been higher. In the Social Democratic Party, we think that enough is enough, and we want to put the coupling rate down to 71 again and spend the money at our common primary school. We think that all children should be as skilled as they can, regardless of their social background, rather than just glorifying these free schools and private schools. Now it is the case that the last percentage, corresponding to 71 million more annually on this year's Finance Act, is to be used for pupils with special needs. Now it's just that the Danish Private School Association doesn't actually like this way of doing things at all. So I would like to ask the rapporteur because there are a lot of people who do not know how to put it into practice, whether he can reveal how this money is to be translated into the specific needs of private schools. What if private schools fail to take social responsibility at all? So they're gonna get the money anyway? And what is the rapporteur's view that private schools really do not like to get this money to take this social responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120637	First of all, it is very significant that they say that they are glorified by the fact that they get 76 per cent. of what the public schools receive on average. In that logic, then, it must be the primary school that is gilded. I must start by saying that the socio-economic background of children in free schools and primary schools is virtually identical, and the free schools are already making a great deal of social responsibility. We would also have preferred it to be just a pure swelling of the coupling percentage. So now you get this as a pool of 71 million. kr., which the free schools can then apply. Then we'll see if it works, and I hope so, but we'll of course turn it into a clean swelling of the clutch rate if it's less bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120736	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120737	I noted in the rapporteur's speech that the rapporteur said that the reason why there are more pupils in private schools is that the primary school does not deliver well enough. I would like to know if that is the position of the Liberal Alliance. It is, of course, especially when you are in the post of Minister of Education that you then have that attitude towards those things. Then I would like to hear from the connection rate: it is the case that the Liberal Alliance said earlier that the coupling rate should rise year by year and should like to reach 80. Where is the trend in relation to the grant to private schools? Should it rise to 80% if that is how the Liberal Alliance gets power to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120818	I can say 'yes' to the latter. That is our ambition, and it is part of our policy that the coupling rate should be up to 80%, so that the free schools get 80%. of what the public schools receive on average. It is only in some twisted social democratic brain that you get 80%. by what other sheep may be regarded as some form of golden or overpayment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120845	The next question is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120848	Thank you very much. I have noticed that the rapporteur very often highlights the United States as the good example of a society. In any case, the rapporteur was very impressed by the tax reform that had been made in the United States. And one of the things that worries me about the one you can say fascination with tax relief is that we have to ask: how much is left to run a proper welfare society? In Denmark we can see that this has meant that education is systematically reduced by the government; here it is approx. 2 billion kr. a year, one removes from education and research. In other words, the quality of education and research is at a disadvantage. And if you turn your eyes to a society like this... the Americans, you can see how this means that a great many talented young people do not have proper opportunities to get an education and, moreover, that parents have to save their entire lives in order to afford their children an education. This is not the way I think we should go to Denmark. I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur recognise that it can actually be a sensible investment as a society to spend money on research and education?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222120955	Yes, of course, spending money on research and education is a sensible investment. It is quite obvious that it is, and it is simply nonsense to say that savings are being made, that less and less money is being spent. We use 30 per cent today. more education than we did 10 years ago. This year it peaks and it is historically high: we spend 32.9 billion. kr. in education, in upper secondary and higher education. It's historically high. Then I have to say that I know there is as much of a youth year in the United States as there is in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121037	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121038	I would say that it is certainly no nonsense to say that education and research have been reduced. The first thing this government did when it came to it was to cut 1.4 billion. kr. Research has been reduced, and there has been systematic removal of approx. 2 billion kr. each year from the field of education. It's a cut. When more money is spent on education now, it is simply because a great many more young people get an education, and that is something we should be happy about. However, I must say that I am very, very pleased that the rapporteur recognises that there is in fact this link between investment and positive social development, because otherwise that is not what the Liberal Alliance's education rapporteur thinks. Is the rapporteur not concerned that Denmark will be lagging behind when there is not just as much investment in education?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121122	Well, there's a lot of investment in education. We increase budgets every year and the higher the budgets, the more sensible it is, then, to look at whether you get enough out of the money. Well, that idea that if only we add to the education area in Denmark, which we already spend a lot of money on, 1 billion. kr., it automatically gets better, isn't it? The more money you spend in an area, the more attention you have to be given to whether you spend the money properly. Then we are talking about a change of priorities. This means saving some money in order to be able to use the money in a targeted manner elsewhere, for example. 0.5 billion kr. to raise the weakest pupils in primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121201	The next question is Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121203	Thank you. If the Liberal Alliance should now look not only 2-3 years, but rather 5-10 years or perhaps 15-20 years into the future, what does the party see Denmark come to live on? Is it old-fashioned, traditional fossil-based growth, or is it the green agenda for which Denmark has long been a pioneer? And if the party now agrees that what Denmark should not only, but can also live on in the future, is to be the world leader in the whole green agenda, from green technology to climate adaptation, infrastructure and sustainable living, can the rapporteur not see that it would also be a really good economic investment to put everything into the green transition, so that we are in super top shape and at the top of the lead?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121254	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121255	But there is nothing more amazing than politicians who, in their great wisdom, know what to live on in the future. It is actually strange that the questioner does not earn billions of dollars on the stock market because he knows what developments will be in the next 10 years and what will remain in the future in the field of technology etc. It's unbelievable. I don't know exactly what we're gonna make a living on in 10 years. That is why I believe that we need to create a framework which is generally good, both regulatory and fiscal, so that investments can be made in Denmark, and then it must be those who are out there and not us who are sitting in here and who know the markets and know where there are some openings that find out what we can live on. The jewelry company Pandora is one of the largest companies we have in Denmark now • Who knew that we should live on it 10 years ago?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121353	Does the rapporteur think that we would have made just as much progress in the green area if we had not made massive investments over the last generation in the form of subsidies, subsidies and targeted adjustments to tax rates and the kind that has just helped the green transition? Would it have happened by itself if only the market had shown the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121420	It is true, but the assumption is also basically wrong. The questioner himself says that we need a lot of billions of aid, and it is clear that if you give me a few billions and I distribute them to some companies, then something will happen in those companies. But where the billions have been taken away, it has cost something, so overall it is not a good business. There is, of course, some activity that we do not have in Denmark now, which we would otherwise have had if the billions had stayed out in the companies and had not been used for PRS and everything else, which became far, much more expensive, because things did not develop as quickly and as well as was predicted. Politicians could not foresee the future, and it became expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222121506	These were the last brief comments we made in this round. I would like to thank the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I am now suspending the sitting for lunch. The sitting will resume at 1 p.m. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222130127	The sitting is resumed. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and the next one on the floor is Mrs Josephine Fock as rapporteur for the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222130152	Thank you for the floor. I would like to begin my speech with a worrying comment. I speak not only as a politician now, but as a concerned citizen and a humanist. I will not comment on intergovernmental cooperation and the internal process between the parties, but I would like to comment on the further slippage in our humanist and democratic values that we have witnessed over the last few weeks. I must honestly say that I am shocked by the way in which we make people fleeing from war and subjection to throwing balls in political negotiations. I fully recognise that several parties are of the opinion that the issue of foreigners is the overriding challenge for Denmark, but the debate we have been watching has, in my opinion, reached a completely moral low point on how we talk about and how we treat our fellow human beings. Quite frankly, I am in agreement with the fact that hetzen is allowed yes, I will allow myself to use such a strong expression against people in need to dictate so much of the debate on the Finance Act and tax negotiations, even if everything suggests that the tighter catalogue will not be quite as comprehensive as it might be feared. Of course, I am sorry because it really has consequences for people, but I am also sorry because it distracts attention from the important issues that we should be talking about and which affect us all at an entirely existential level: the climate and the need for sustainable change and the growing inequality. I have not yet, as an elected representative, experienced a Christmas time at Castle, which was not about tightening the course towards people on the run, and I sincerely hope that next year we will seize the opportunity to allow other individual matters of value policy to hijack the debate, namely the debate on climate challenges and the increased inequality in Denmark. Yeah, that's it. I would, of course, also like to use my speaking time to discuss the Finance Act itself, which is about much more than the restrictions on foreigners, although sometimes one may well be in doubt. If you compare the proposal made by the government in August with the proposal that we are now discussing today, yes, in fact there has not been much change in the broad lines, and there should be no doubt that we could have thought of it by the alternative. For even though the Christmas atmosphere has begun to spread so little, there has been no room for the great Christmas presents, either for the climate or for the poorest in society in the latest version of the Finance Act. It is still the people who already have the least to pay the price for the people who already have the most: a tax relief, a cheaper car, a free telephone • all of which they can probably afford in advance. At the same time, the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit are unfortunately maintained. Because it increases inequality, and it weakens the social sustainability of our society, and it also undermines the empathy of our society • neighbourly love, if you like. Right now, for example, this means that in many families of children there has been less money for Christmas tree, Christmas food and Christmas presents, and in the longer term, lower benefits risk pushing the very same families into poverty, even out of their homes. The fact that government reforms create poverty is clear from the statistics. Since 2016, the number of poor according to the bourgeois think tank CEPOS has increased by 2,600 people. So that's 5 per cent. more than the previous year. I cannot help thinking that it is evidence of an ever-increasing lack of compassion and neighbourly love in our society that all of this is happening at a time when, as a country, we may never have been richer and therefore we can afford to take care of each other properly if we want to. But the government will not, and I think that is very sad, just as I find it infinitely sad that this week the government has said no to quota refugees, and that at the same time it has been negotiating with the Danish People's Party almost too openly about how many restrictions on foreigners need to vote in favour of a tax agreement. It should not be a secret that the general absence of neighbourly love in both the Finance Act itself and in the process of its creation is one of the reasons why the Alternative votes against the Finance Act. Another reason why we are doing this is that several of the proposals directly weaken the green transition, and I am thinking, above all, of the extension of motorways, of speed increases and of the agreement to lower registration fees for petrol and diesel vehicles. At the same time, the government is planning to scrap green national accounts, and that only makes it worse, and it is almost tempted to believe that the government is afraid to answer for its own policy. At any rate, it cannot be for the sake of the environment, nor is it because it saves a lot of money, and it goes against the UN's objective of sustainability that countries should be measured more on parameters other than economic ones. So, with green, sustainable glasses, we have to note that the government's proposal is a rather disappointing one, partly because of the measures already mentioned, partly and most of all because the absence of serious investment is so conspicuous. I know that the Minister for Finance has pointed out that Denmark is already doing a great deal for the climate and that, moreover, the financial act contains a smaller pool for ecology and nature, and it is also very good that we have this smaller pool for ecology and nature, but we just have to note that it is by no means enough. It is not at all when one considers that the government has previously abolished the PSO tax, granted tax rebates to oil companies, extended fossil extraction in the North Sea and implemented an agricultural package that damages nature, the environment and the climate. Bearing in mind that the climate challenge poses the sovereign greatest threat to the world, yes, it is, in short, a completely wrong development that we are currently witnessing. And unfortunately it is probably a very good idea that even here in the Danish Parliament we have not yet really understood that in the future we will have to deal with nature and all the lives we share the Earth with at least if we want to ensure that there is a healthy planet for our children and grandchildren. I know that some of my colleagues in this Chamber disagree with me that the climate poses the greatest threat to society and the planet. Here I could spend a lot of time mentioning that there are a lot of people who confirm the opinion that confirms the analysis that we have a huge threat in the climate area. Instead, however, I would just like to say that even for a bourgeois government there should be a lot of good reasons for increasing investment in the green transition. For one thing, it is quite obviously crucial to the survival of the planet, but another thing is that it also makes sense from an economic perspective. More and more companies are already demanding more ambitious targets from the government. This is particularly true in relation to the conversion to renewable energy. And why do they do that? Yes, some do well because they want to help save the planet, but others do, because they know that it is in the green sector that we have to create jobs for the future; because they know that it is the green transition that we have to live on in the future; because they know that, according to the European Union, 20 million jobs can be created in the green sector by 2030; and because they know that Denmark has very good opportunities to take a good share of these jobs if we still want to maintain that we are leading in the development of green energy, environmental technology and new solutions to the climate challenges that the whole world is going to demand in the future. It is not because we cannot afford to invest more in the green transition, on the contrary. Most of us in here, at least all the finance rapporteurs, have read Economics Statement: The Danish economy is healthy, employment is increasing and our fortunes have never been greater. As a country, we have never been richer than we are today. But what is the point of that wealth if it is not used wisely, for example. to create better and more meaningful lives; to ensure the future of life for our children and grandchildren; or to create sustainable jobs. The perspective, the reason, the neighbourly love for future generations, but also for that part of the present generation that has least to day and road, I very much lack when I look at this Finance Act. One of the things that always becomes clear when we discuss the Finance Act is how different we parties are. Today is certainly no exception. We should not listen to the debate very long before it becomes clear that we are nine different parties with widely different perceptions of what is good and bad, both for the planet, society and all of us who are part of it. Fortunately, all parties are free to make their own alternative financial act, and the alternative in best tradition has also been made this year. It bears the title "A future in balance sheet" because we want to emphasise once again that it is possible to create an alternative financial law that strikes a balance between the economic, social and green bottom line. With a redistribution of 150 billion. kr. We are again showing this year that it is actually possible, within the existing economic and political framework, to bring together a financial law which is both visionary, realistic and sustainable and which, moreover, ensures that Denmark bears international responsibility. In addition to raising development aid to 1%. of GNP and allocation of 10 billion. kr. We propose, among other things, climate aid. to allocate 39 billion. kr. for green conversion, 24 billion. kr. for education and research and 11 billion for education and research. kr. to better day care institutions. There will also be room for a new chemical tax, a significant increase in energy research, and a new national homeless effort to mention some of the measures compared to last year's draft Finance Act. And, of course, we have also made sure that the roll-back of poverty benefits is financed crown by crown, precisely to show that there is plenty of money to strengthen social sustainability in society if we just want to. And we would really like that in the alternative. What we have seen further this year is that we have actually assessed our own proposal, both on the economic, social, green and gender mainstreaming. So it is possible to bring together a financial law aimed at a balanced future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131408	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131416	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. I very much agree with the alternative that we need a serious sustainable transition. I also agree with the alternative rapporteur that there are some people in this society who are having difficulty getting things together right now. The rapporteur himself mentioned the need for Christmas aid in many places. There are very many poor families, and in this respect I am surprised at today's proposal in the policy of the Alternative, namely to introduce a climate tax on pork roasts and risalamandes. Bearing in mind that there are people who find it difficult enough to get it together, I just want to hear: What are we actually going to eat for Christmas if it is to be completely climate friendly according to the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131459	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131501	The rapporteur must eat completely what the rapporteur wants, and people must. What we have tried to write in that speech today is to say: what would it actually cost if we calculated the right price, i.e. what the rapporteur could also call the ecological footprint? It is to show that we are not paying the real price today. What we have then done in our financial legislation is to make measures which then make it go straight up. In other words, where we are asking people to pay more, it is, of course, for the particularly vulnerable to remove the ceiling on cash benefits, to increase the benefits of integration, to abolish the 225-hour rule. It is because we think that we should pay for what it actually costs to produce, also in relation to the climate image.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131550	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131554	It's hardly quite equally distributed where the red steaks and lobsters are eaten, and that's why there's still a social side in it if you want to regulate it this way. Last summer, the alternative suggested that income tax should be completely eliminated and that the money should be cut in by making as high taxes as the alternative says, so that you really pay for your burden. It is just that I say that we need to find a way to make a green transition where the social battle side is not so big that those who already have enough difficulty getting it together for Christmas cannot eat risala men or pork roast with a good conscience, because they need to know that they are really eating the future. I think that we should make the matter of resolving the climate problem a collective discussion, a collective solution and not an individual problem which makes Mr. and Mrs Jensen at home must sit with a bad taste in her mouth during the Christmas dinner. That would be too bad, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131653	I believe that what is really important to us is, firstly, that we draw people's attention to the fact that the prices that you can actually buy a pork roast are far below what it costs to produce in real terms in climate images. Furthermore, it is no secret that our taxes are also calculated on the basis that we would like to do so that the framework for our society at home says that people buy healthier and better. That means, for example, that we are going to do something about it. would like to make it cheaper to eat organically and make it more expensive to eat non-organically. In addition, it is absolutely crucial for us that we raise the bottom in Denmark at the same time. As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, inequality has increased a great deal at home, and we would like to limit that, so that there is a greater balance in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131744	The next question is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131749	Thank you. I have also read the same speech in Politiken today, and I must say that I do not quite share the view that we should sit and simply put taxes on products in such detail and that Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party said: sit with a guilty conscience about eating a pork roast or enjoying the risala man on Christmas Eve. It's for me to see a weird approach. Instead, the alternative could of course welcome the elements of the Finance Act that support the green transition, for example a lower tax on electricity, which means that we will have an energy supply that makes more use of climate-friendly power in Denmark. I thought it was more obvious to enjoy it instead of wishing for such a very detailed management process, which in the end is going to lie as such a conscience over each individual Dane, if you allow yourself to enjoy the pork steak on Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131853	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131856	Well, I'm standing up here and I'm almost happy, because some of what we just wanted to do with that post was to provoke a little. It was to draw attention to what we put in our mouths, both in terms of quality and also in terms of what it costs to produce a pig, produce a steak and so on. That is why I think it is very good to take this debate. And as I also said to Mr. Jens Joel, it is because we think it is time to put a proper focus on what it really costs to produce things. So not just what it costs financially, but also what it costs on the environmental bottom line. This is one of the things we do not spend any time talking about and the government does not spend any time talking about in its Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131940	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222131942	It may just seem a little remote from people who are not on the green branch economically. 'Cause that's where Mr. Jens Joel rarely has to refer so nicely to a social democrat so many times during such a debate, but it happens, and then the person who is honored should be honored, of course, a point in that this affects people with lower incomes. Now, in one of my answers, when I had the floor, I used the example of the political leader of the Alternative, who thought that one of the ways in which we as citizens, like really, could show something about restricting the use of resources, was that one had to just change one's iPhone every two years. It is to me that only a very well-off section of the population can afford to have the approach to how often a mobile phone can be purchased. But if that's what's behind it, then of course it doesn't do so much either that the risala man, Santa Claus and the pork steak get a little more expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132037	Well, I guess that's more of a comment. However, one of the things I would like to point out is that we really have a lot of focus on the green transition in our draft budget. As I also said in the speech, it is both on the basis that we need to discuss how we want to ensure the survival of our planet forward-looking, but also, because it is a healthy economy. We need to invest in green jobs. This is one of the things the government completely ignores. And then I still think it's relevant to discuss what the environmental image is in relation to what we eat. Nor should it be a secret that we know and know the whole Parliamentary Chamber here, I assume that producing meat is one of the things that is very difficult for the climate. That's why it's a really good idea if people eat less meat. But people have to eat exactly what they want. It's just gonna cost a little more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132125	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132128	Thank you for that and thank you for a very good and visionary speech. I would like to ask you something a little more specific in one of the areas that is close to me, namely the school area and where I am a little concerned. Because I believe that, in fact, the entire lifespan of the government has now chosen to ignore primary school when it has had to give priority to state finances. As a result, teachers have been given less time to prepare, and many of the intentions of the reform have resulted in the failure to live out because the primary school is becoming increasingly starving. What concerns me a little is that during the same period, each year, private schools have been given more subsidies. I would really like to know whether the alternative thinks that it is a wrong priority that private schools have been given more and more in grants during the same period, when the public schools have not been given more in grants.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132223	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132226	No, we think it is quite clear that cutting down on primary school is the wrong priority. At the same time, we think it is a good idea for there to be free choice in relation to private schools. However, there should be no doubt that we fully agree with the rapporteur's party that the primary school sector needs both an economic injection and an injection in terms of, what can be said, improvements, as a result of the fact that we would like to have both the teachers' working time agreement and the working environment, etc. improved so that children get the maximum out of going to school. It clearly lags behind long stretches today, and this is also evident from the collective bargaining that has just begun, where the trade union movement is united in the need for the teachers' working time agreement to be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132318	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132321	It is on the basis of the government's work if it can be said that it will continue to raise private schools' subsidies. Does the alternative agree that the first priority must be to be given more in grants to the public schools before they are given more in grants for the fourth consecutive year next year?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132342	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132344	I think we fully agree that we need to look at the primary schools before we give further subsidies to the private schools once again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132353	The next question is Mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132355	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for a substantive speech which, unlike the previous speaker, I cannot agree with or agree with most of it, on the contrary perhaps. But there was a concept that I attached myself to, and that's the title of your financial law play... a future in balance. I would like to hear from the rapporteur a few words about the alternative's attitude to the relocation of state jobs, which has its starting point in creating a balance for Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132432	As a starting point, we have been positive about these relocations. The problem is just the new figures that have just emerged, of which you can then see that the jobs you move out are not enough at all compared to the places where you can see that jobs are being cut in the rest of the country outside the large growth centres. So I still think we have a very, very big challenge with the connection between city and country. It is not solved by simply moving jobs out. After all, something must also be moved to enable people to live out there, live properly out there, which means that we are also talking schools, and we are talking educational institutions in general how to promote growth in the outermost regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132517	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132520	Thank you for that and I agree. But the numbers are what they are. Having said that, one can at least see that if the 3,900 had not been moved out, it would have been even more wrong. Can we take into account the concern expressed by the rapporteur, namely that it is obviously not enough, as an indication that the rapporteur will help to move out even more, in other words beyond the other parameters, which I also took note of when the rapporteur drew attention to? But now I am talking specifically about the relocation of state jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132547	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132550	We want to help discuss this, but I just think it is really important to focus on it, and we certainly have a lot of focus on it, that just moving jobs out does not solve the issue in the outermost regions. There are many other things that need to be resolved there. Now we were on the subject of education just now, but that is among other things. the fact that parents who are moved out have the opportunity to send their child to a school that is not too far away, and that there is also in some way an effective health service in the local area. Well, there are a lot of other things. There we must be careful not only to see the isolated approach as a solution to the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132625	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132635	I would like to thank you for the challenge, because I think that whether you are a burgeoner up on Strandvejen or if you are a cash aid recipient at Nørrebro, or where you now live in Copenhagen, it is important that you consider yourself. Because we all have the right to vote, and I think that those who must have the worst taste in their mouths are those who have elected politicians who, quite unbridled in the area that the rapporteur called the moral area, allow themselves to continue to tighten and tighten. It is, of course, those who have given the mandate to the Danish People's Party to give away and also to the Left to just accept it. And so, of course, we must ask everyone to think carefully. Having said that, I also think that there are many shortcuts to it, so I often visit Stop Madspild Silkeborg, and they do two things: they make sure that you don't throw out a lot of good food, including healthy food, and they help people who are having a hugely difficult financial time at once. But can we do this by private initiative alone? Do we not also have to say that we need to take some political initiatives that move things so that we do not only reflect on it but also make some real political changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132743	Yeah, I totally agree with that. What I mean is that the Folketing must create the framework so that the people can act more easily. And then it is we who decide the framework politically: what kind of framework do we want? And there is one of our tools, among others. tax increases on the things we know are damaging the climate. And, of course, it's to get people to buy less of it. At the same time, I think it is important that we really start to have a fundamental discussion here in the Danish Parliament about what we want our future society to look like, where we take the climate seriously. And I don't think we do today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132820	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132823	We discussed some time ago whether we could have such a small subline in any legislative proposal on the consequences for 2030. When we discussed it, it was rejected by the government parties, because it filled too much, and it was too hasty to make that assessment. And then I thought: How can we get the largest law, that is, the Finance Act, evaluated, in terms of whether it benefits or damages the 2030 targets? Because it could be really, really interesting. There could be a small section under each main section which stated that this would have some harmful effects there and there etc. Does the rapporteur have any ideas on how we could proceed with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132903	Yeah, well, that's where we're going and now we're going to be very specific... to discuss the Ministry of Finance's calculation models. We have asked for, for example. could have the government's finance bill climated up, and we can't do that. In the alternative, we have tried to measure our own financial law from three different bottom lines: economic, environmental and social. And then we've also tried this time to bring the gender bottom line to see what impact it has. After all, we would really like to work to ensure that there are some very general instruments that everyone can use and that we simply lack tools today. Fortunately, we in the Committee on Finance have now instructed the government to continue working on how it could at least see that the social bottom line is included in the accounting models of the Ministry of Finance. So that is something that we are clearly going to continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222132956	The next question is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133003	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to ask a question on the basis of the question which Mr. Jacob Mark asked, because that was the rapporteur's reply to Mr. Jacob Mark, as if he had been spared at primary school to give more money to the free schools. Could the rapporteur not just tell us and all those who are listening to what the coupling rate is? Well, when a primary school student gets a hundred kroner, how much of that money gets a student in free schools then?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133029	Now I'm not an expert in primary school. What I know, of course, is that, in general, savings have been made in the public sector, including the primary school sector, including in the whole of education for several years. The percentage in relation to the free schools, as I remember the government's proposal, which we agree with as a starting point, is 76 ■ from 75%. Last year, as I remember.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133055	Yeah, that's right. So every time a student in a primary school gets 100 per cent, a student in free schools gets 76 per cent. of it. This means that if the primary school is spared, the free schools will actually be spared, because the calculation is linked. Look, I have a very, very warm heart for primary school, but I just think that we should have a real political debate, and I actually thought that was a goal for the alternative. So if you do not know anything about things, perhaps you should not conclude as sharply as the rapporteur did.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133124	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133127	Now I think I just said the number. I also think I can say that the first time the government set it up, it was from 71 to 75%. Last year and then at 76 percent. Now. The percentage bill is quite correct: when there is less money for the primary school area, there is also relatively less money for the private school area. However, the money has been increased by 5%. Since 2015 • Does the rapporteur agree with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133149	There are no more brief comments, so I would like to thank the alternative rapporteur. I give the floor to the next in line, Mr President. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133158	Thank you very much, President. A quite creepy phenomenon has arisen in Danish politics. A political Bermuda triangle is stretched between the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, a triangle in which important initiatives and major policy areas mysteriously disappear. First, Denmark's green profile as dew for the sun disappeared, then thousands of jobs were lost at the country's vocational schools, colleges and professional colleges. Then vanished, sir. Anders Samuelsen's tax relief quickly followed by the Kingdom's Finance Act... the latter has now been saved ashore at the last minute, but greatly lost and greatly delayed. The political Bermuda triangle in Danish politics is, in a sense, a fascinating phenomenon to witness, but it is also, above all, a frightening phenomenon, because it is the story of wasted opportunities. It has been many years since Denmark had better conditions to prepare the way for the next generation of Danes. Never have we had better opportunities to pass on a society to our children, which is even better than what we had, and never has so little happened. That ambition has also disappeared in the wondrous game between the Left, the Danish People's Party and the Liberal Alliance. Most devastating are the persistent and completely incomprehensible savings in the country's education which are being carried out in these years. It is a failure of those children and young people who do not get a complete education because there is no resources in the country's youth education to give it an extra hand to the socially disadvantaged. It is a failure of young people who get an education but have to live with lower quality because it is education that is being spared. It is a failure of the country's rural areas, which is hit the hardest by the savings While the government has moved small 4,000 government jobs to the province, it is at the same time up to cutting the equivalent of more than 17,000 years' work in education outside the capital area in the period 2016-21. It threatens to close vocational schools, colleges and other institutions in rural areas. It doesn't make any sense. In the world we look into, we need more knowledge. We need to dress our kids better. That is also the message from the business community, which is as puzzled as we are that a bourgeois government will cut both education and research as hard when the lack of labour is as intrusive as it is. The savings in education are unsympathetic from a human perspective, but they are also from an economic perspective. The most recent economic report makes it clear that Denmark's biggest economic challenge in the years to come is the lack of qualified labour. Education is a major part of the answer to that challenge. But there are other answers. We need to make it easier for Danish companies to attract skilled labour from outside when it is not found at home, and we need to ensure that all Danes can and will contribute. And here I would actually like to praise the government for the tripartite agreement that has been reached to promote the integration of refugees into the labour market. That agreement has produced results. It is no secret that we radically criticise those parts of the government's immigration policy that go the wrong way and point back, but we welcome the fact that one in three of the refugees who came in 2015 is now in work and can support themselves and their families. We welcome the fact that together we have got the logic reversed, so we start with the link with the labour market and then follow with other efforts. It promotes the integration of the new Danes and makes it much cheaper. The new refugees are now beginning to fill the gap that arises when Poles and Romanians return home and take jobs in their country of origin. Thus, the new Danes fulfil an essential social function and can help to ensure that Danish economy stays in a good track. That is why I must not hide the fact that we radically believe that the next victim of the Bermuda political triangle is precisely in danger of becoming the tripartite agreement reached by the government with employees and employers on better integration and training for refugees. The government's reports have not been very clear, and one can get the impression that at least parts of the government would be able to slaughter the tripartite agreement if that is what it takes to get the Danish People's Party on board in greater tax relief. It would not only be a profoundly unsympathetic thinking to force people not to contribute to the community; it would also be a huge economic challenge and put a bomb under the whole idea of tripartite negotiations if a government were to run from an agreement a few months after it was concluded. Therefore, I would like to say directly to the Minister for Finance, if he has time to listen, and hope that later today he will guarantee the Folketing that the tripartite agreement which the government has concluded with the support of a broad majority in the Folketing will of course remain in force and that the government will not include it in the forthcoming negotiations with the Danish People's Party. In the Radical Left, we are concerned that we can pass on a Denmark that lives up to the many dreams and hopes that Denmark's children and young people have for their future. That future is too important to lose in the political Bermuda triangle. That is why we have presented a draft Finance Act which gives much more priority to our children and young people by investing in better day care institutions and better education. It is a financial bill that brings Denmark back on the green track with green ambitions that can be felt and that can serve as a role model and inspiration for the rest of the world, as we have done before. It is a financial bill that prioritises integration by giving refugees a worthy reception in Denmark, both human and economic, but it is also a financial bill that will prioritise more money to prevent the causes of migration in the form of higher development aid. In short, it is a financial bill that will bring Denmark out of the political Bermuda triangle and indicate a direction and an answer to the whole of Denmark now and in the future. Unfortunately, we do not have the prospect of adopting the draft budget today, but we hope that it will serve as an inspiration for the government which is most concerned with its own inner life and which is threatened to become the next victim of the Bermuda political triangle itself with those words, Mr President. President, on behalf of us Radicals, I would like to wish both the government, the Folketing and the rest of the country a very merry Christmas and a happy New Year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133853	Thanks for that, and you too. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133859	Thank you. I would like to sign for the speech, which strikes at one of the challenges that we in the Danish Parliament are concerned with: the challenge of ensuring that there are enough hands in the labour market. The lack of labour is central, says the Radicals, and so we agree with the Left. We want to help ensure that we get more hands on the labour market. That is why we want to reduce the tax on labour so that more people enter the labour market and that people in the labour market are motivated to work a little more. I would just like to ask whether the Radical Left is wondering about the alliance partner, the Social Democracy, who says that there is no need for labour supply reforms, that there is no need to reduce the tax on labour. Does the Radical Left not find it worrying that the Social Democrats in this way reject the fact that there is a challenge to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222133958	I think it is one of the oldest news in Danish politics that the Social Democrats and the Radical Left do not have the same economic policy and therefore do not have the same perspective when talking about tax cuts. But now that I have the opportunity to reply to the Left, I would like to say that for the Radical Left, neither is tax relief at all costs. It must be tax relief that works and it must be tax relief that actually provides an increase in labour supply, both when it comes to getting more people to work more, but also when it comes to having some of those who are not working today invited into the labour market. So now that we see what the Left has in the drawer, and which one might not be able to get a majority for, we are very interested to see whether it is also a package that has a positive effect on the job supply. Because there are rumors that it is not necessarily. But, of course, we are optimistic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134049	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134053	After all, it is positive that there is a common understanding that the tax is one of the tools that can be used to solve the challenge. After all, the Government has an ambition to increase labour supply, and I just want to hear whether the Radical Left, when looking at economic policy in relation to the ambition to secure more hands on the labour market, feels that it is more in agreement with the economic policy that the government has put forward with its 2025 plan, or a message from the Social Democrats that there is no need for further reforms, that there is no need to ensure greater labour supply, that everything that has been done in the past is enough and that there is no need for any more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134130	When it comes to the specific policy area, which is about creating a tax package that, overall, provides a greater supply of labour, then the Radical Left is thinking of long stretches in the same direction as the Left Party is doing. I have no doubt about that. The question then is whether this is the kind of package that the Left Party can put forward. However, one step further in this discussion will be whether the government will consider inviting the Radical Left to discuss such a tax package, so that hopefully we can also put our fingerprints in the right direction, and it is not just the political Bermuda Triangle, in which I might fear that this tax package could also disappear.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134208	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134212	I would like to ask a few questions about the business package, which is also part of this financial law. I also referred to it in my rapporteur's speech. Many of the elements in it are extremely skewed. If we look at the investor allowance, it's the only 10%. The richest people who will benefit from it. If we look at the stock savings account, the picture looks about the same. But what I really wanted to ask was something else, because what is being done with the business package is that the economic room for manoeuvre is being reduced to finance it. It is not a question of billions, but we are doing so, and that is how we are going to break a principle that we have had, namely that tax cuts should be financed, if I may say so, on budget estimates. You didn't start using the money of the future that maybe wasn't there. The fact that we are beginning to make use of the economic space is, of course, one of them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is something which the economic wise men have very strongly criticised. I normally see radicals, for good or for bad, as a party which is very concerned about pursuing a responsible economic policy. Does the rapporteur think that it is responsible to be part of an agreement that provides room for manoeuvre to finance tax cuts?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134319	It is quite true, as the questioner says, that it is a very mixed bouquet, and it is no secret that here too we would prefer to fund all initiatives crown to crown and it has not quite succeeded in this package. Once we have agreed to the agreement, it is because we have made some very significant concessions in the green area, and the biggest of all is the reduction in the electricity tax already mentioned by several rapporteurs, which I must not hide from you has been very, very high on our wish list for many years. We had a chance to get it through here. Then we welcome the fact that this is a so-called vote agreement, which means that some of the tax reductions that are also included, for example. In the case of PVC, which has not grown in the radical backyard, we are looking forward, hopefully, to being able to re-introduce by a different majority at some point. This will also reduce the problem of the room for manoeuvre.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134410	Then I would like to ask a little bit about another element that I wonder a little bit about in that agreement, and this is the investor allowance. After all, if you invest in a small or medium-sized enterprise, you can obtain a very large deduction. I just want to hear from the rapporteur how to avoid abuse, so that the rapporteur and I, for example, are able to do so. not each creates an ivs of DKK 1, and then we invest in each other's companies and get deductions. What safeguards are there in order to prevent abuse? Because, as I see it being deducted, it is leading to an enormous abuse which can strike some serious gaps in our treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134449	Of course, when you introduce this kind of deduction, it also follows that the tax administration has to carry out random checks and check that the rules that exist are actually followed. You can also think of so-called protective measures that make it more difficult. We are not that far from implementation. This is something that we will, of course, take seriously and which I assume the SKAT will also make some solid suggestions on how to avoid. When we have wanted to promote investment by ordinary Danes, it is because especially small and medium-sized enterprises in Denmark, which have reached a certain size, have had major difficulties in obtaining capital to grow and create even more jobs in Denmark. If we can get, I would have almost said, more Danes to invest in companies and future jobs and then maybe drop one of the flight trips to Mallorca, or whatever, then we really think it's a good idea to go that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134536	The next question is Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134544	The rapporteur mentioned this a little earlier, but I must also admit that I had to pick up my lower jaw from the basement floor when I saw that the Radicals were part of an agreement that completely removes the tax on dangerous phthalates. Now I know that it was launched as a tax on raincoats, and that is a good political spin, but this has been a tax on substances which are endocrine disruptors, carcinogenic, some which we have known for more than 30 years were extremely harmful and which we must at least ensure to keep far, far away from our children. So I would just ask the rapporteur to confirm that if there is another political majority who wants to deal with public health and who recognises that these substances are very dangerous, then that tax will come back.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134619	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134621	I can confirm that. It was not with our good will that that tax reduction was included in the package. As I mentioned before, it's a mixed bouquet of flowers. We think there are some very large beautiful roses that we ourselves have helped bring into the bouquet and which we thought were worth a lot. We could see that this tax reduction would be implemented in any case, but if there is a majority with us and with the Enhedslisten, I understand, to remove it, then we will certainly remove it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134648	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134651	I am very pleased and thank you for that. Not only has it not grown in the backyard of the Radicals to remove this tax is basically totally unacceptable and irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134701	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134703	Yeah. As I said, it is not our invention either, and we would like to change it again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134707	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134715	Thank you. One of the major negotiations that are likely to be waiting for us in the coming year, and which are also about the economy, is the SU negotiations, in which the government has said that there will be an increase in the supply of labour and a huge saving of billions by cutting the SU without knowing exactly the final model. I would really like to know whether the Radicals could imagine being part of a model where you cut the SU, either by the model that you put forward last year in the government, where you cut a percentage of the SU, or by, for example, by. to remove the candidate SU. Can the Radicals see themselves in a new settlement where there are huge savings in the benefits of the SU?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134752	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134754	The Radical Left has no desire to cut the SU. This is not part of either our financial bill or our 2025 plan, and not something that is a political wish at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134803	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134805	Thank you. When I ask, there is a reason for this, because we have a very good cooperation between the Radicals and the SF, and I believe that we in both parties have the approach of trying to be involved in some agreements. And then there are some agreements here lately, when the Radicals have made such a bit surprising, perhaps, and so I would like to ask: is there any scenario that the Radicals can imagine where the party ends up with an SU agreement where there are savings on the SU? Can you live with such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134836	Well, it is not something we see for ourselves or which is in any way in the cards or which we have been asked about. So I find that hard to imagine. But I have also been long enough in politics to know that no guarantees should ever be given. There's so many things that can come up. But that is certainly not a radical policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134849	There are no more brief comments, and I thank the radical rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222134908	Like so many others, I've been watching Star Wars here in December... a movie whose director came out in a storm with the main players, where the fans raged, where the rebellion in the film continued until it was knocked down. The modern version of Star Wars even has a gender aspect: the reactionary men against progressive women. For as it is revealed in the end and apologize to you who have not seen it Luke Skywalker is not the last jedi. There's hope ahead. This little anecdote is not really a flick to the government or to the Liberal Alliance, because I actually think there's been enough process talk. This is a political anecdote about how one can overcome so much to win in the end, and when in the centre left we have a large number of cool female presidents, and we also have a man in the Radical Left, and he is also good • it should not be that way • of course I hope that we will then have a change of government next year. Today, we are dealing with the Finance Act, the State's household budget. Last year, the Finance Act and the 2025 Plan were inextricably linked until it did not do so anymore. This year tax relief and the Finance Act were linked until it was no longer linked, and that is the way it is, one is tempted to say when there is no majority for it in the Folketing. We have talked a lot about the room for manoeuvre, about the money that is in the coming years for welfare or tax relief, not both, as the government is trying to deceive the population, because the room for manoeuvre that we know now is not enough to cover the 1.1 per cent that the demographic trait and the rise in prosperity require. The council room is for welfare. There is no money for tax relief if we are to ensure a proper level of welfare. If the public sector does not follow the development of prosperity, our common welfare, our schools, our day care institutions, our care for the elderly and our health services will seem increasingly worn out for every year that goes on a development that will cause citizens to look more closely than today for private alternatives. I mean, that's the government's strong wish. At least it is in the government base: • We will improve the free choice of the supplier and spread it to several welfare areas...We will put more tax-financed tasks on competition in order to get higher quality and lower prices. In the draft Finance Bill agreed between the government and DF, money has even been set aside to spread and advertise more private tenders despite the many private bankruptcies. Today we could read that in older areas we are heading for bankruptcy no. 50. We must go forward into the future, says the Prime Minister often. That's a very good thing to say. Nevertheless, the savings knife is flung over and over again in the field of education: 100 million. kr. in vocational education and training only. It's not just stupid, short-term and unsolidarous towards future generations. It's also commercially hostile. Where the government could find just under 15 billion. kr. in a business package without significant jobs or training elements, yes, apparently there is no money to ensure a basic decent level of education. The government's basis also says: "We will create a stronger and richer Denmark where the development of wealth not only benefits the few but offers better opportunities for all. However, the business package means less than DKK 200. for 90%. of the population, while the 1,000 richest get almost DKK 80,000. out of it. The government's basis also says: "We will insist that Denmark can make a difference in the world around us... We win by entering into binding communities with other countries and we can positively influence international organisations. On Wednesday, a majority then adopted a stop for quota refugees and a proper cut in the United Nations system which is just about to give us some form of governance, ensuring a proper system for refugees. What remains is that the richest corporate heirs have been given a huge tax relief, telephones and cars are becoming cheaper, and there is a very uneven tax relief to the top in terms of share taxation. Significant tax cuts have already been agreed with a very clear overweight to top tax payers, while the growth of public spending to welfare in 2018, and next year, if properly done, will be at the bottom of the 0.3 per cent that the government has set up and clearly less than the demographic pressure of approx. 0.7 per cent and, as DF has said over and over again, that is what needs to be done. The financial law agreement, and that is also fair, certainly adds more money to welfare, but it does so on the basis of a very poor starting point, very scraped agreements with municipalities and regions and large cuts in education, including vocational training. The growth in public spending from the budgeted level in 2017 to the level in 2018 is 0.4 per cent, and of course you have to subtract it from that which goes to the police and defense, if we want to go in and talk about what is nuclear welfare, and then we are down to about 0.3 per cent. On the other hand, tax reliefs have been agreed, which amount provisionally to 1.7 billion. kr. in 2018 increasing to 3.1 billion. kr. in 2025. If it had been spent on welfare instead, growth would have been raised from 0.3 to just over 0.6%. So we were more close to just keeping up with the demographic move, with more older ones coming. In SF we have made our own financial act, and it can be read on our website. We would very much like to measure the money we spend. We received criticism from DF that we had squandered the money to get rid of the poverty benefits, with the ceiling on cash benefits. We are proud of that, and we would very much like to stand by it. We have also found money for better standards in day care institutions, because it is unreasonable that there are not enough adults for our children. A good life starts in the day institutions with enough adult contact. Then we have also found money to compensate for the cuts in education that the government has introduced over the last few years and a green pool, because some of what is perhaps the most striking thing about this government, which prides itself and dresses itself with borrowed feathers abroad, is that it has systematically shaved everything that has to do with climate, environment, nature and green conversion. In the draft budget they allocate a little small green, which amounts to a maximum of 2%. of what is being spent on tax relief. It is almost ridiculous when we know what the challenge we are facing is. We propose that a green billion in a pool be set aside for more nature, ensuring our drinking water, cleaning up toxic deposits, energy savings and much more. Overall, we are an incredibly rich country, but inequality is increasing and more are becoming incredibly rich, while others have far too little. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen said in his speech that we should have a little more fun, we should feel a little better, we should have a little more fun. It is therefore easier if you do not have to worry about how to pay your bills if you are not affected by the ceiling on cash benefits or some of the other poverty benefits. The future of Denmark must be a place where few have too much and fewer have too little; where it is better to work than speculate; where we give a helping hand to those who do not have a job, instead of indulging them; where the pattern of inequality is broken, so that there is no 13 years difference in living years between two districts in Aalborg; where we organize our labour market, so that worn-out people should not be dragged to conversations lying on a sick bed; and where we actually improve the well-being we know today. In view of this speech, I do not think it surprises anyone that we cannot vote in favour of the Finance Act. We would like it to look a little bit more like our own proposal and to cross our fingers to ensure that the agreement to be reached in January in the crossroads between significant immigration restrictions and historically high tax cuts is not as severe as both parties have proposed. In fact, we think that we have a bit of a scary outlook. But thank you for the floor, and when I stand up here, I would also like to wish everyone a very merry Christmas. I think we could all use some vacation soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222135905	Thank you, too, and I think the rapporteur is right about that. We move on to the brief remarks, and the first question is Mr. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222135915	Thank you. It seems to the SF that you've forgotten what you were doing when you were in government. So, you are now thundering at things that you yourself helped implement in more or less the same style earlier, so that the Danes should have the opportunity to keep a little more of their hard-earned money when they go to work. It is simply an attack on our welfare society. If I don't remember quite wrong, SF had a tax minister who said it was a good idea to let hard-working Danes who got up every morning, smeared liver errand sandwiches for the kids' lunches, have a little extra once the salary had entered the account, i.e. to leave the tax a little lower. Apparently all this is awful now. And a talk of equality when you were part of a government that increased inequality just seems kind of hollow. So the question is: is there really a connection between what the SF is saying now and what was said when you were in government? And secondly, I just need to know if it is not a core element of a welfare society to ensure the safety of our citizens, to ensure that we have a defence that can protect us; that we have a police force that can ensure that you are safe on the street, that you are safe at home. Isn't that really the welfare of the SF?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140037	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140039	When we talk about core welfare and those institutions, we usually separate it from police and defence. It is not because we do not need a police force and a defence, but demographic development, that is, the fact that there are more elderly people, has a greater impact on core welfare than on the size of our defence. In relation to the second question, whether we should give tax reliefs to those who have the least time is the answer: Yes, very much, if it was financed. But that is not the consequence of the business package. The business package provides 90 per cent. of the population under DKK 200. and the 1,000 richest nearly 80,000 kroner. So that's not it, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen is talking about. I also find it a little strange to compare the richest period we have had in the history of Denmark where it is roaring and where both the government's own Economic Statement, the National Bank and the wise men say that we should be careful that everything does not boil over, because things are actually going really, really well with a period when one comes out of the worst financial crisis we have seen, at least since the 1930s. To compare the two periods is absurd, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140156	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140158	But now the financial crisis did not arise in the days when you sat in the black tower and negotiated the government base in 2011. At least there were some of us who had discovered that there was a financial crisis. It did not prevent the Social Democracy and the SF from going to elections on some fantasy papers called "Fair solution" and "Fair change." When it met reality and we were the ones who predicted that it fell apart, of course, for it was electoral deception of another world. If the SF is now moving towards a business package that aims to ensure that capital enters the companies, that more people invest, then I just have to hear: are the reliefs that exist to secure more capital in the companies and, for that matter, also lower registration fees, something SF will roll back if you become part of a majority after a parliamentary election that does not include the current government parties?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140248	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140250	Well, sir, that's what I'm gonna need. Torsten Schack Pedersen is not waiting at all because we have today tabled an amendment which everyone is welcome to vote in favour of. That, sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen talks about is the myth that is recounted over and over again, namely that there is a lack of capital, and not that there is a accumulation of capital out there in the Danish economy; that 85%. of the money, of the capital circulating in the financial sector, never leaves the financial sector. So it's a myth that there's a lack of capital. There are some who lack capital, but there is a build-up of capital and record yields are paid, record amounts for the buy-back of shares. So that is a myth and, as I have said, we have tabled an amendment, such as Mr Beazley. Torsten Schack Pedersen is welcome to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140334	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen from the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140347	Thank you. And thank you to the SF rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. Sometimes I actually get a little sad when the SF's rapporteur is on the floor, because it seems as though it is difficult to please the SF's rapporteur. So, almost no matter how many billion extra we set aside for core welfare, etc. What I would actually like to get an answer to is this: I understand from the SF's rapporteur, as is also said in the rapporteur's speech, that you want those who have the least to have more. And that is actually one of the things I would like to see confirmed by the rapporteur. For does the SF generally take the view that those who have the least should have more? And it's really just a question of saying yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140432	I do not think Mrs Anni Matthiesen should be sad. It's almost Christmas now, and I like Mrs Anni Matthiesen too. We have tabled a large number of amendments in order to gain a different social profile on the draft budget that we have before us today, including among others. a break-up and a farewell to poverty benefits, a roll-back of tax relief to the richest corporate heirs, etc. So with those suggestions it would get a markedly different profile. So, overall, you can answer: Yes. We find it sad that in one rich country what we and many others call poverty benefits should be paid. They are simply too low. And that means that children grow up in poverty in an increasing number.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140518	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140521	If we in the bourgeois bloc are actually fighting to get tax relief for those who have the least, I simply do not understand that the SF rapporteur cannot accept from the platform that it is actually a good step to take. In other words, when we really want them to get tax relief at the bottom and thus be allowed to keep more of their own money, it should actually be some of what SF also thought was a very good idea. And I would actually like to confirm whether that part of the tax agreement might be supported.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140559	Yeah, but that's just not what we're dealing with today. We are faced with tax cuts which mean that those who buy the most expensive cars have been given the greatest relief; in fact, the very cheapest cars have become more expensive. We have a free telephone, and there we can also see a clear distribution in relation to incomes and jobs. We have a business package, which means a relief of DKK 200. 90%. of the population and almost DKK 80,000. to the 1,000 richest people. That is my criticism. If what Mrs Anni Matthiesen is proposing was well funded, then I am sure we could find each other. That may be some of what we will be discussing in January. I'm afraid I'm not sure. However, the fact is that if we take the money out of the room, we will de facto have a worse welfare service, and that will certainly also affect those who have the least.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140655	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140659	Thank you. I am not at all in a bad mood by the SF rapporteur. I think it is a wonderful debate we have today. However, I have given some thought to the way in which the public debate has been conducted here during the course of the second block, where we have had a government party which is quite historic, it must be said that we have threatened not to vote for the Finance Act and where there have been threats and there have been real ramashangs. So I've been thinking: I wonder how the media coverage had been in such a circus if it had been SF who had had the behavior? Then I think we had heard that one should step out of the government and that one was totally government useless. How does the rapporteur actually see the debate that has been going on? Is it not rather strange that there is the difference in the treatment of different government parties in the public debate that we have seen here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140758	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140800	I don't really care much about that. Well, I've been excited and worried about how the outcome would be. In other words, it would end up being coupled with historically large tax cuts that would reduce our welfare and would increase inequality and so on.? That's what I've been worried about. I really do not think it is I who should give points for style, but I really do like the fact that the Liberal Alliance has a very clear profile. It is a policy that I do not agree with in any way. But it is very nice to have some to play the ball up, so to speak, with which one can disagree, but which also has some idealism. So I think that's fine. At any rate, I have learned that we must be careful not to have too many opinions about what things look like from the outside. I think that the press coverage of what has happened has been massive. Perhaps that is natural enough; perhaps one might just wish that there was a little more coverage of the political content than the actual process around it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140915	Well, I kind of agree with that; I also think that there has been a lot of focus on the process. The great scandal is, of course, about the outcome that may come to pass, which means that we are draining the money for what needs to be spent on ensuring proper welfare in the future. But what I really asked was more that there is apparently a slight difference between how different parties and their behaviour are commented on by commentators, journalists and others. I just think I have to say that I have not heard anyone demanding that LA, following this behaviour, should step out of the government, or say that they were certainly not government capable. However, this was the case with SF, as they had some of the same problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140951	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222140953	Anyway, it's back in time. I do not want to say that the SF experienced anything, and then the Liberal Alliance must have the same treatment, or whether they got it or not. I understand perfectly well, sir. Pelle Dragsted's question, but I am actually more concerned with the cross, which may be in January, where the DF will say yes to some big, biased tax cuts to get some foreign restrictions through, and where the Liberal Alliance will give up some liberal basic ideas on how to treat other people, in order to get tax cuts through. That's the intersection that I'm really afraid we'll just push a few weeks into the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141037	The next question is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141041	Thank you for that, President. I just want to hear: does SF mean that you have to solve this so-called interaction problem, which means that for the 3F, with a relatively low salary, it is not worth saving up for pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141059	There is an interplay problem. I don't think there are any parties in the Folketing who disagree, so yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141105	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141107	I'm glad to hear that. But it's gonna take a few tax cuts. This requires that it pays to set aside money for retirement, and it requires some deductions from one's income, so SF is on some tax cuts. It's pretty expensive to solve this social problem. It certainly takes a few billion. But that has to be resolved. So is the next question: Does SF also believe that ordinary employees have to pay less in tax? Is it not also an improvement in the welfare of employees that they retain a greater share of the fruitage of their work that they can use in their families? In other words, when the trade union movement wants to have higher real wages, and it is a legitimate wish that you want to have it, it is because you want to have higher real incomes and thus get a higher disposable income. That's what you get when you lower your taxes. Is it not also a good thing for the worker that the worker retains more of the wage that the worker has earned by selling his labour and his time to an employer?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141218	Just as quickly as regards the first question: the proposal that is on the table for compensation, we think that is an unsolidarous solution. But we agree that you can do a redistribution and solve this problem. In relation to the other, I have to say that the Liberal Alliance has begun to define welfare as if it had read Orwell and learned such a little new language. No matter how many times you say tax relief is private welfare, it just doesn't get right. Welfare is what we have decided to have together, such as schools and day care institutions and other things, and the other is what we keep for private consumption. And, of course, we could see there that a great reform was being carried out, in which we said: now we have to redistribute a little from the top and then to those who pay relatively much in tax at the bottom. And if the Liberal Alliance was involved in that redistribution, I'm sure we could reach each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141317	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141320	SF behaves like a watermelon compared to the criticism of car taxes: You look green, but you are red inside. SF pretends that it would like to do something that is good for the environment and a change in registration fees to make them more environmentally friendly. But the SF opposes making expensive cars cheaper, because that is contrary to socialist policy. There are Conservatives more green than SF: We are ready to make some changes to registration fees, which make us reward cars that do not pollute so much. But that also means that expensive cars would be much cheaper than they are now with the change in registration fees that we have made. After all, expensive cars do not pollute ten times as much as cheap cars, even though they cost much more. So a shift in registration fees to more green would mean that expensive cars would become much cheaper than they do with the conversion that we have made. SF is against this, but then SF should not claim to be green, because it is really the socialist envy policy that shines through.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141431	Three agreements have been made to reduce registration fees now. They have had a bell-clear crooked profile and an incredible amount of money has been spent on it, and that means de facto that more cars are coming out on the roads. You've got to see this all in one piece. There will be more cars on the roads, and it may well be that they will be a little more environmentally friendly, but if the total amount of cars increases, then nothing has been won. The rapporteur says, and I would like to agree with the rapporteur, that there can be a dilemma between a distribution policy profile and a green profile. We have also openly said throughout there that this is a dilemma. If, for example, we do not know what to do. But because we believe that you have to give some birth aid to kick-start the electric car revolution or what to say, that is something we would do with open eyes. But the model that has been chosen seems to us to be a little in between, where you do promote some green things, but you also make it so much cheaper that with the total amount of cars on the roads as a whole there will not be a climate gain.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141609	It is quite true that the model that has become this country is not only a shift to environmental impact taxation, what might have been sensible if we thought about what was good for the environment, but that there are also some heavy distribution policy considerations. For that is what a majority in the Folketing wants. A majority in the Folketing is very much opposed to expensive cars becoming cheaper, because then all these maths come up with what it means for the director and people living in Gentofte get more than people living in Lolland etc. So this ugly envy rhetoric stands in the way of us turning it into a more environmentally friendly registration fee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141646	I didn't just hear a question there. But I would say that I believe it is an Audi A6, which will be DKK 60,000. cheaper on top of the latest deal here. Well, why spend so much money on it instead of saying that now we are betting wholeheartedly on fossil-free traffic? When we were sitting over at the tax minister's office to make this deal where we were supposed to find 800 million. kr., SF had plenty of suggestions, and they were more than financed. But you wouldn't. Now, as a whole, even more money has been spent than that on reducing the registration fee broadly. And we just don't think that in SF is wise.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141725	There are no more brief comments and I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Rasmus Jarlov as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222141742	Yesterday I'll be honest and tell you I was down to get pictures taken for election posters. I had booked time with the photographer a week ago because I just didn't know if we were going to get a bill of finance or if we were going to have parliamentary elections. If we hadn't gotten a finance bill, it would have been unforgivable. It would have been unnecessary self-torment for the bourgeois camp, but fortunately the reason prevailed. We will vote through a Finance Act with which all four blue parties can be extremely satisfied. Liberal Alliance gets tax relief, Danish People's Party gets alien tightenings and money for so-called welfare, Conservatives get among other things. money for defence and police, the Left gets many of the same things that they also care about, and gets ruled the country. At Conservatives, we are happy when the other bourgeois parties get their highlights through. We are in favour of tax cuts, a tighter policy on foreigners and taking responsibility for governing Denmark. And that is why we are so delighted that we have the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Left. Thank you. Not just bourgeois Denmark, but all of Denmark, needs the effort we make together. If, like us, you belong to the minority of the Danes and the Folketing, who do not have the objective of maximizing taxes and public spending and calling it welfare, then you have to set the ambition of living in a democracy in which the majority decides. We're very comfortable with that, and it shouldn't be any different. So we are happy, even when there are less tax cuts, for example, where we get rid of the bureaucracy involved in taxing free telephones, lowering registration fees for cars, lowering the tax on shares, abolishing nut taxes and other silly taxes, and when we get rid of the rightly hated equalisation tax on pensions, and not least a strengthening of the artisan allowance, so that all Danes can now get cleaning and craft work done in their homes for DKK 18,000. a year and be allowed to deduct it from taxes. In fact, when you sneak these things up, we think we have come a long way with sensible tax cuts, and we do not intend to apologize at all for that to the wing of politicians in here who are busy demonising tax cuts and believe that happiness in this world is to preserve the world's highest tax burden and some of the world's highest public spending. Welfare is not that the state gets to keep as much of our money as possible and spends it for us. Welfare is at least as much that one gets to keep a little more of one's own money, that one gets to reap the fruits of going to work, that one can find the joy of working hard and getting something out of it without the state taking all the money. Public expenditure is too high in Denmark, taxes are too high, and we work as well as we can now, and with respect for the majority of people to lower them, and we are proud of that. Denmark could be a much better country if we could get rid of the misunderstanding that we are best off by the state sitting all over society and all our money. We could be much richer if we lowered taxes and made it more attractive to go to work and operate in this country. How are we going to pay for the tax cuts? We can, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. We do not know how much immigration costs Denmark overall, but in Norway it has been calculated that the cost of a lifetime for an average non-Western immigrant is over 3 million. Danish kroner. If we accept hundreds of thousands of them, it is very expensive. It is not very clever to try to solve the problems in the Middle East and Africa by moving millions of people to Western Europe and putting them on transfer income up here. It is not so much a matter of solidarity, it is a question of a bad solution. Of course, we must shoulder our responsibilities to the misery of the world, but the solution is not to move it to Denmark. Moreover, most of the migrants who are currently looking for Denmark are not from Syria. They come from all sorts of other countries and are driven against Denmark, not by the civil war in Syria, but by the desire to share in our prosperity. We can't offer that to so many people. We need to shield ourselves from the flows of immigrants if Denmark is to survive as the prosperous and cohesive country that we are. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports a strict immigration policy coupled with increased support in what we call the neighbourhood. That's the right model. We can help hundreds of times more if aid is directed towards the neighbourhoods. One of the elements that we very much welcome in the Finance Act is the strengthening of the repatriation system. It's like we're paying for people to go home. There is a lot of debate about how we can force someone to go home. It is difficult, and it is not always possible, and therefore this is a good arrangement which there are no victims of. The state earns money because it is much cheaper to pay people to get home well and start a new life in their home country than there is to have them on cash aid in Denmark forever, if that is what the prospects are for them. We look forward to working further with the other blue parties on more alien straits with a focus on curbing mass immigration to Denmark, helping in the neighbourhoods and ensuring that the refugees who come and have come to Denmark return home so that it does not become a permanent stay in Denmark. This is important because it is a prerequisite for us to be able to accept refugees in the future and for us not to experience that it is the case that when we accept refugees, it means that all future generations are in Denmark. This makes it very, very difficult and expensive to accept refugees, and it cannot be in anyone's interest. In the Danish defence there is so little about being a dawning optimism. We are looking forward to closing a new defence settlement. So do we Conservatives, and I would very much like that to happen soon. Decades have not been funny, either for the personnel or for the state of the Danish defence, and now there is finally the prospect that we can strengthen the defence. The Finance Act lays the conditions for it by allocating money to it. This is very important. We also set aside money for the police. It costs to raise the penalties for serious violence, it costs to have border controls and to fight gangs and bikers. But it's worth the money. Security is a state core task number one. We are challenged by Russia's aggression against ourselves and especially in Eastern Europe, and at home we are challenged by a gang war that we will not tolerate. That's why we're going hard. There is also money in the Finance Act for a large number of cultural initiatives that are little for the environment, and there is a great deal for important infrastructure around here. All in all, we think it's a very good financial law. We can recognize ourselves to such an extent in tax cuts, culture, restrictions on foreigners and money for defence and police. Of course, that is not all we have got through, and not on the scale that we would like to see, that is how it is when you are a tiny party with six mandates, but it is actually some of our absolutely most important issues that are being delivered here. That is why I would again like to thank the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Danish People's Party for a very good agreement, on which we all win. Thanks to the opposition for the ritual criticism, and Merry Christmas to the entire Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142610	Thanks, you too. There are a large number of brief comments. The first question is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142623	Thank you for the floor. I listened with interest to what the Conservative rapporteur highlighted as conservative issues. I really expected something to be said about environmental policy. If you look at the government that is now, it is not the green that shines the most through, but I would like to acknowledge the Conservative People's Party for actually having an ambition to safeguard nature. However, this was not apparent from the speeches made by the rapporteur and from what was evidently proud of himself. One of the things we have greatly wondered about in the Social Democratic Party is that the Conservatives have helped to remove some taxes on, among other things. phthalates and PVC, some of what you know to be endocrine disruptors, something that you know to be one of the biggest problems in terms of the fact that it comes out in the wild. That's exactly why there are taxes on it. Why have the Conservatives been able to help remove the charges on some of the most environmentally harmful substances?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142712	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142713	The environment is a very, very important issue for us Conservatives, and it is not something that is being changed decisively. There are some minor initiatives in the Finance Act, including: some subsidies for ecology, and there are subsidies for a natural package and a few other minor things. But it is not the case that I am going to say that here we have won a great victory in the green area. That's why I didn't mention it much, because not so much is happening in either direction, either in the black or in the green direction, in this Finance Act. So it is not because it is not important, but I do not think it can be said that there are such huge steps in the Finance Act. In relation to the charges, we have made a reorganisation of taxes for that purpose, among other things. to make things simpler. We must be careful that we do not have too many small taxes and too much bureaucracy which makes it very difficult to understand the tax system. And I think that is the main reason for the charges that Mrs Christine Antorini is asking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142815	So, I assume that the Conservatives have entered into negotiations on the elimination of taxes, so that it is not just about doing something a little easier, but also about assessing whether it promotes or inhibits a particular behaviour. That's one of them. Therefore, there have been charges exactly on these substances in PVC, phthalates and PVC film. I would really like to see the rapporteur elaborate on just a little more, apart from the fact that one has apparently just been out and so broadly looking at where to remove something. Why are these drugs exactly? Because this is actually something that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has dealt with, and they have said that this does not give much money in the box. And the Danish Environmental Protection Agency writes: "PVC is e.g. a plastic type which gives rise to the most environmental problems. Will the rapporteur elaborate a little more on why the Conservatives have not been concerned that precisely those taxes would be retained because this is important in the interests of the environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142905	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142906	I have to say that, as rapporteur for the budget, my insight into phthalates and other substances is probably not quite large enough to allow me to go into such a specific issue and discuss each individual tax on each substance. What I can see as the financial rapporteur is how the money is distributed on the whole. So I think it is a question that I have to refer to our specialist rapporteur and to another time. It is not because I am trying to avoid it, but I do not have a good answer in relation to each substance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142935	The next question will be Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222142941	Thank you. In the Finance Act there is a natural pool, and I would like to sign for that. It is high time we came to the rescue of nature, because the Danish nature is in decline. We lose species, we lose nature, and we gradually make Denmark poorer. For the reality is that our children and grandchildren must live with fewer birds, fewer butterflies, fewer of the flowers that characterise Denmark and have done so for decades, and fewer wild bees; we have already wiped out 53 species of wild bees from Danish nature. And if there's something I really like about the Conservatives, that's the talk about the generation contract. We are obliged, as I understand it, not to hand over a country, a planet that is more poor and more impoverished, to our grandchildren than the one we took over from our parents. However, we are also obliged by the United Nations to stop the decline in Danish nature by 2020. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: what is the expectation of the natural pool? What can we achieve? Can we stop the decline of nature and biodiversity by 2020, to which we are committed? We are obliged to do so both internationally and, in the same way, to our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143052	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143057	I dare not say about the 21 million. kr., which I think is in the natural pool, is enough alone to achieve these goals. But I can say so much that these are objectives that we stand firm and that we do not give up. That's why this might make a small contribution to it, but I don't think this is enough alone. I believe that in the years to come more environmental and natural measures will also have to be taken so that we can stick to these objectives, which are very, very important to us, just as it is to Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143120	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143125	In other words, we can expect the Conservatives to continue to fight for even more money and even larger pools to stop the decline in nature and biodiversity. I very much agree with the rapporteur that, although it is important to have a small pool allocated to nature, much more needs to be done, not only in terms of money but also in terms of political will, for example. to set aside the 200 000 hectares of state land for truly wild nature and biodiversity, so that we can stop this catastrophic decline.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143156	Well, you can certainly expect that. Conservatives will also fight in the coming years for priority to be given to and funding for environmental action. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143207	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143211	Thank you. I have to comment on what the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party says about refugees. I hope to be able to confirm here today that the refugees who come to Denmark and whom we have to accept under the conventions also have the opportunity to enter the labour market and become part of Danish society and not to sit in asylum centres for the rest of their lives and rot if we do not have the opportunity to send them back. The reason I ask the question is, of course, that I thought I heard Mr. Rasmus Jarlov praises the negotiations that have taken place and the debate that has taken place. I may have misinterpreted it, but I would like to hear Rasmus Jarlov say how we should treat the refugees who come to Denmark and whom we should welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143302	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143304	Our starting point is that if people can contribute something, we would like them to contribute something. But we are also not blind to the argument that, among other things, we are not blind to it. The Danish People's Party has argued, namely that if we start to put people in the prospect, that now they are going to work and that they have to go through a lot of long courses to work on the Danish labour market, etc., then it may well have the effect that they might stay here permanently. And we're not interested in that. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, it means giving permanent residence to people whether it happens from the start or whether it is the consequence of the integration policy and the policy that we have, moreover, that the burden of accepting refugees is many, many times greater than if people just have to be here for a few years and then back home again. So we hold on to the fact that refugees are going back home. In fact, this will also mean that there is a future for refugee policy, because it does not mean that there will be a huge reluctance to do so, as we do not completely change Danish society, but that we will provide shelter for refugees for a few years and send them back home as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143415	Thank you. There are several things in that answer that I do not think make sense, because it will be more expensive for Danish society if they do nothing while they are here, from the point of view of the optics that they are going home again. But while they're here, they need to have the opportunity to do something. Otherwise it will really be more expensive for Danish society. What is the rapporteur's position on the fact that we know that we need labour and that we also need people who can actually work and who come here, among other things. As refugees? But it may also be other foreign labor. So that doesn't really make sense. In addition, we know that for refugees there is an average of approx. 17 years before they have the opportunity to return to their own country, if you look at the figures historically for how long it takes, in other words, in relation to wars and such. So does the rapporteur not think that they should be integrated into Danish society so that they can also contribute to Danish society while they are here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143514	I actually recognise both views, both the view of the Danish People's Party that it is very important to stick to the fact that refugees should primarily be here for a short period and then home again • it is very, very central. But I also recognise that it is foolish to have people sitting 17 years in Denmark without letting them contribute anything. It is both a pity for the people who are here and a shame for Danish society, which might benefit from their labour force. One should not just think that we have a very large labour reserve in the refugee flows or migratory flows that are currently coming, most of which come not from Syria at all, but from all sorts of other places. You should not think that this is a contribution to the Danish welfare society. It is far from it. It is very, very few who get to work; most of them are a huge financial burden • unfortunately.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143601	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143605	Thank you. I would like to share an experience with the rapporteur, I had the other day when I sat and put the finishing touches to SF's media play. There I sat with a bunch of SFs who have been in the game for a long time, and they said, "What about the Conservatives?" Don't they mean anything about this anymore? Why aren't they there to protect the public service and the DR? Conservatives should, of course, be looking after the institutions of society. I've been thinking about that a little bit, and that's basically right. For it should surely be conservative policy to take care of the strong institutions that bind us together and create cohesion in society. So what exactly is the Conservatives' attitude to the savings on DR? Is there no longer any need for strong public service, or can you just cut a lot on DR without it having consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143656	It is also a very fine and fairly correct interpretation of the position of the Conservatives that we think that public service is very important for the cohesion of Denmark and also for democracy. So there are some people who can tell about the things that may not of themselves attract spectators to the debate on finance, too, it seems. A little help will be needed to get the public debate to know what is going on, and that is crucial for our democracy. There are a lot of good things in DR, and it is very good that there is a focus on Danish history and the story that binds us together and creates an identity in Denmark. So we certainly believe that there is room for public service. We also think it makes sense to have a critical look at whether the money is really going to public service or whether there are elements of DR that have little to do with public service. D.R. doesn't have to be big just to be big. It must be huge if the money is spent on something sensible, which is precisely public service and not just something that could be produced on TV 3.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143751	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143753	I'm glad to hear that you haven't left it. Now I could see in the media that in some tax reform that may land one day, we are planning to save 12.5 per cent. It is difficult to predict such things, but you think that Conservatives and the rapporteur think that we can save 12.5 per cent. or maybe even more, as the Danish People's Party suggests, they propose up to 25%.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143819	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143821	I do not want to lay down any percentages in relation to how much DR can be cut. That depends, I think, on whether you look at what the money is really going to do, rather than whether we report some percentages in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143836	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143842	Thank you. After all, the rapporteur was not entirely able to answer it with the environmental and health problems. However, I will address another part of the green transition, namely the agreement made by the government with the Danish People's Party in September on support for renewable energy. In fact, the pace of the green transition is reduced by half, i.e. we get half as much renewable energy per year. years in the coming years, as we have had in the last few years. I would like to hear how rhymes with the Conservatives' concerns and desires to have a green profile. I would also like to ask whether the Conservatives think it wise that the model of support chosen is the opposite of the one recommended by a single industry and a single industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143922	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143924	We are in the nature of the agreement made in this area. What is important is that we stick to the long-term objectives, and that is what we are doing. We have not changed the objectives we have for Denmark's conversion to renewable energy, and we are sticking to them. And it is still our assessment that we are on the right track with those objectives, including the energy agreement that has been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143949	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222143951	Then I will recapitulate what it means: the Conservatives are okay with half the pace of the green transition. Conservatives are okay with choosing the opposite model of the one the business wants. And may I add: are the Conservatives also okay with concluding a narrow agreement in an area where business needs broad agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144018	At least we're okay with the deal that's been made. And, as I have said, we are particularly concerned about this because we are sticking to the ambitions of climate change, which we believe can still be achieved by means of the energy policy that is being pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144031	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144034	That was fast. I thought it was my turn after my colleague Mrs Stine Brix, but it's really fine. In the course that has been here, it can be said that it has appeared that the Conservatives may have been a little squeezed between some cock elephants or something, or that they have played some role as a party therapist or something else. It has certainly been an exciting process. However, I am counting on the Conservatives to continue to play some role and to influence future tax reform. That is why I would like to ask the same question that I have also asked previous rapporteurs, namely where the pensioners stand. Because when you see what's been leaked in this process... and I don't know who leaked it... about what's coming from the government... there's exactly 0 kroner. to the one million of the Danes who are folk pensioners. They should not benefit from the relief of the treasure that may come. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144128	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144129	It is true that what is addressed is not, in the first place, that more money is needed for the pensioners. We may look a little differently at the purpose of tax reform. Well, the Enhedslisten and the Left generally have this view of it that it all has to be done in who gets what. We look a lot at how we can make Denmark richer, how we can make it more attractive to work and operate in Denmark. That is the objective that we also have in the tax negotiations. It must pay to save up for pension, it must pay to get to work if you are on a transfer income, and it should also pay to work more if you are already in work. That is the aim of tax reform. Then, of course, there will be some groups which do not fall into the categories where you either save up for pension or where you are in work or on transfer income, so that you do not get anything out of it. But we can barely do it, or we can't do it. There's nothing you can do about it. And who says that exactly the tax system we have today is an expression of the highest justice and that we should change nothing and that it should be cast in concrete? Then we won't be a richer country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144242	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144244	No, I don't suspect the Conservatives think that everyone should have the same thing. But what is merely a fact is that people's pensionists have systematically been sidelined in tax reform following tax reform. Then the rapporteur says that the Enhedslisten cares a great deal about who gets and who doesn't get. But I think the pensioners do too. Actually, I think it means something to them whether they get anything or not. And then it may be that the rapporteur can stand and talk about labour supply and all sorts of other things. But what is really happening is that there is a large group of Danes who are clogged by the general development of prosperity when everyone else gets, and they time and again not.Then there's the thing about that it has to be attractive to work. Yes, yes, but the pensioners have worked their entire lives and helped to create the wealth that may now be translated into lowering the tax. So how are you going to explain this to the people who have worked their whole lives and worked their whole lives, but over and over again have to be passed over?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144340	I fully agree that it matters to the pensioners out there, and that is also why Enhedslisten can score votes against tax reform. That's probably why you are. I'm totally into that. But we talk past each other, because Enhedslisten keeps arguing that when you make a tax change, it must mean that everyone should have equal regard. That's not what this is about for us. It is about Denmark getting richer, that it better pay to save up for pension, that it better pay to be in work. This simply means that if we are to make a tax reform that meets those objectives, then it will not be the case that everyone gets equal. That's impossible. Then there is no tax reform. And we will not hold back from making tax reforms that can make Denmark cheaper to live in, just because it means that you can set up some calculations where there are some groups that get more than others.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144425	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen from the lovely town of Kolding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144432	Thank you for that and for your love from Kolding. I would like to return to the discussion that Conservatives and the government have abolished taxes on harmful phthalates and PVC. The Government argued in connection with the removal of the tax that the tax no longer has any significant effect on behaviour and on health and the environment. This is a curious argument because the government's own reorganisation committee has written that when you remove the tax on PVC and phthalates, it is not surprising that more phthalates and more PVC will be used. I would ask the rapporteur to confirm that if more PVC and phthalates are used, this will have a negative impact on health and the environment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144513	As I said, and as I said to the previous questioner, I am not quite so familiar with the individual drugs that I think I can have a very detailed discussion about it. My immediate feeling will be that in relation to some of these substances there is now so much consumer awareness that I think there is a pretty great demand that you do not fill toys and plastic and everything else with these substances. And it will greatly regulate it, probably also more than a tiny tax, which probably doesn't mean much in dollars and ear compared to the individual toy. It has obviously been the government's assessment too. But it is true that it may be a tiny step towards more of these substances being put in toys, for example. And you have to weigh that up against the trouble of having these many, many taxes. We also have a consideration of simplicity in our legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144618	If the rapporteur is not on an absolute home ground here, I can offer you this information about PVC and phthalates in general. There has just been a major research report from Odense University Hospital last week which shows that boys at 2 years of age have a significantly worse vocabulary than their peers if their mothers during pregnancy have been exposed to phthalates. So you can remove phthalates from toys, but if the mothers have been affected by these harmful substances during pregnancy, then this has a negative effect for boys at 2 years of age compared to their language. These are quite significant health consequences, which I do not think can be minimized by talking about the need for us to clean up our tax systems and make things simpler. You simply have to take this seriously. You simply have to take it seriously that this is very, very harmful. And I think the Conservatives owe these children an answer as to why they have been ignored, why their health has been neglected in order to create a business package which reduces taxes on PVC and phthalates, despite the fact that it is known that it is harmful to health.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144723	Yes, but I didn't say it wasn't a problem or that it wasn't harmful to health. We fully agree that it is. These are harmful substances that can have an effect on the foetuses and children and everything. We are in complete agreement on this. That was not my argument at all. The question is, how much the taxes that have been are affecting the spread of these substances, compared to perhaps some of them. is a consumer demand that they be removed. So that is where I think we should look at the balance rather than argue that it is harmful to health. Because I think everyone agrees on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144756	Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144801	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the question that Mr. Jens Joel put forward earlier, because from the point of view of the Alternative we also see the Conservatives as the party in the government that has the strongest green profile, and we also have great hopes of how the Conservatives influence the government in that direction. Nevertheless, we see a financial law with a motorway extension on Funen, which means more cars on the roads, as well as tariff reductions over Storebælt, which means even more cars on the roads. There is also the new registration fee agreement from earlier this year which makes it cheaper to drive in petrol and diesel cars. We have speed upgrades that increase CO2 So what is the rapporteur's position as rapporteur for the most climate-friendly party in the government on these initiatives, which are clearly an accelerator for climate change?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222144852	Well, first of all, I would like to thank you for the praise of our green profile. We appreciate that very much. And that is certainly something that is very, very important to us. So, in relation to what Mrs Magdalene Maier has to say about infrastructure investments, I would say that money has also been earmarked for increased investment in railways in the financial year of the budget. So it's not just roads we're expanding. And generally, when we look at what we invest in infrastructure projects, we spend more money on public transport than we do on motorways. And that's okay, too. We have such a rather undogmatic approach to transport policy on the part of the Conservatives, and we think we should invest in the projects that are best. Instead of saying from the outset that either railways or roads should be invested, we have a desire to invest in both. But that must depend on how we get the most transport for money, and this must of course also be done with regard to the environment. But this very dogmatic thing about being against any investment in the road network, we do not agree.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145002	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145004	But is that what becomes logic, that is, as long as you balance it with something else, that's okay? That is a little too bad, I think, because we all know what a challenge we are facing in terms of reducing, among other things. Our CO2 So, if we look at the consumption of Danes, then consumption in relation to the climate and the footprints we set, we will see that it is far, far beyond what it really should be if we are to stay below the 2-degree increase that we have committed ourselves to with the Paris Agreement. So my point is more that, in principle, we should never be involved in any action that contributes to climate change. And that is the Conservatives, because these measures are certainly not going the right way. So does the rapporteur not agree with me that this is the way forward? I mean, we have to go where we do not adopt policies that contribute to climate change.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145053	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145056	No, here I really think the alternative is expressing a very dogmatic, almost religious approach to the climate issue, namely that we should not be involved in any action at all which increases CO2 We simply cannot make a society work if we must never build a road that is necessary for citizens to be able to make everyday life work. We feel that it is the overall package that matters. We think it is important for the government to stick to the overall ambitions in the climate area, but it will not be the case that we dogmatically say no to all initiatives that could lead to a little increase in CO2 It must be offset by other initiatives that are moving in the other direction, but we must therefore have a pragmatic approach to it, where we look at it from project to project and have the overall orientations defined.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145145	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145149	Thank you. I am a little surprised that the rapporteur is not in a position to respond to the environmental issues and not to the energy agreement that has been concluded quite recently. But now I will try to ask an economic question, in the hope that the rapporteur can answer here. The government's proposals for tax reform show that it must be financed by obtaining 5.2 billion in 2025. kr. through adjustments to the transfer area as it is called. I am interested to have an insight into what is really in it, and I would also like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur can guarantee that this means that the benefits of the benefit recipients will not be cut.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145243	There are no plans for us to cut the daily allowance. There isn't. We have been completely behind many of the improvements to, among other things, the environment. the length of the benefit period, which has been made in recent years. And we also think it is something like that in terms of goal. In relation to the fact that we have made a cash aid ceiling, that we have made a halving of the daily allowance period, and that we have had a pre-retirement reform, etc., we think that there have been a lot of good initiatives that contribute to the fact that more Danes are going to work. It is a policy of which we are very proud. We do not think it is right that you should be on unemployment benefit for four years, but there is no suggestion that the rates of benefit should be reduced. Some of the savings, which hopefully come from reduced transfer incomes, should come from the fact that we have created these incentives for more people to get to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145337	Now it's not change that needs to be found. I mean, there's got to be over 5 billion. kr. I understand from the rapporteur that these are some very good things that have been done so far, in other words, saving on the daily allowance and saving on various other benefits. I also hear that it might as well be there that you could take the money one more time. The rapporteur is now shaking his head; that means that it is some other places to take them. But can I find out what it is in some places?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145405	No, you can't know that. In other words, there is an estimate on it, and we may expect that we will get fewer on transfer income. That is our hope. But there are no plans for us to save on the daily allowance. I also said that very clearly, so I cannot be told first of all that there is no plan to save on the daily allowance, and then to interpret it as if there are plans to save on the daily allowance. There isn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145425	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145429	I would like to pursue the lead that some of my fellow Members have mentioned, namely on CO2 For now Mr. Rasmus Jarlov said just now that it was dogmatic to say that no initiatives should be launched to increase emissions. But I think that what we're interested in or I can at least speak on my own behalf is the total amount. And it has to be said that Denmark is going the wrong way. Especially with the reputation we have had in the world that we were a pioneer country, that we have agreed to the Paris Agreement, etc. And it's the total amount of action that's in this Finance Act that's helping to contribute to it. Does the rapporteur not agree with that? Because I'm not talking about specific proposals that come with this financial law. But the overall result is to increase emissions. Does the rapporteur agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145540	No, I don't know where to come from. I have not seen any calculation of the financial law agreement that it should lead to increased CO2 i.e., you can have some conjecture about it. I do not see that there should be anything in this financial agreement that would greatly increase CO2 and so our overall climate policy is not made up of the Finance Act either. There are many other laws and initiatives over a parliamentary year and a parliamentary assembly that form our overall climate policy. So I really think it's a little bit sought to turn this finance law into a matter of climate. It's not that much that's been in focus here. But there are many other areas where we focus on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145626	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145628	I was thinking about registration fees and cheaper tickets over Storebælt etc. It's something that's pulling in the wrong direction. But the rapporteur has one point: it is the overall policy that matters. But the overall policy of this government is also heading in the wrong direction now. Hopefully, the rapporteur knows that. There will be official figures on the climate impact of the policy. What is the rapporteur's view of being the Green Government's party, and that a policy is then being pursued that, overall, overall policy is moving in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145706	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145707	Well, I don't agree with that. I don't recognize that. Well, it is true that there have been some figures on CO2 due to differences in temperatures in different winters there had been different energy consumption. I do not know whether that is what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is referring to. But to claim that otherwise we should have pursued a policy which would have been bad for the climate in general, I do not have any evidence.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145732	Then it's Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145737	Thank you. There was little social conservative in the rapporteur's speech. There wasn't much green either, we heard. But I would like to ask about the social area. Because today, we know that if you have a mental illness, you live on an average of 15 to 20 years shorter than the rest of the population. Psychiatric disease today accounts for the largest part of the total Danish disease burden by 25%. of the costs we have for illness. It is about one in three of us Danes who suffer from a mental illness during life. And if we look at just the last six years, from 2010 to 2016, we can see that the number of citizens admitted to a psychiatric ward has increased by 30%. Nevertheless, there is no mention of psychiatry in the financial agreement that has just been concluded. I would like to ask the Conservative rapporteur why the government and the Conservatives are not taking this problem more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145845	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145847	It is true that no money has been set aside for a particular psychiatry effort in the Financial Law Agreement. You can't make it all on one financial bill. That does not mean that we do not think the problem is important. It cannot be said that everything that is not provided for is indifferent to us. But what we're gonna have to look at. We would like to debate this in the future, including with the Enhedslisten, within the health framework that now exists. But it is true that the framework will not be larger specifically for that area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222145918	It is certainly not surprising to the government or the Conservatives that we have a huge problem. Now I mentioned that psychiatry is the largest part of our burden of disease, that is to say the biggest cost. This is also clearly the most significant cause of early retirement in this country. If we just look at anxiety and depression, we can see that it is causing at least 1.6 million sick days a year. So I do not understand why it has been so little forgotten what it sounds like to the rapporteur as if you have. I would say, in any case, that you have to get into gear. Because this is really a problem we have. So I would like to take down the rapporteur's remarks as an expression of the fact that this has been written behind the ear for the next time you have an opportunity. In that case, I think that is the best we can get out of this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150005	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150007	Yes, that is probably the best we can get out of the debate. We certainly think that this is an important area, and we would like to strengthen it if we can.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150018	Then we've come to Mr. Knox's office. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150022	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur and thank you for the floor. In his speech, the rapporteur says that the bourgeois parties can all be happy to have their priorities included in the Finance Act. But the rapporteur did not mention nature and the environment as a conservative priority. This leads me to ask whether the Conservatives no longer have ambitions to make a green impression on government policy. I would also like to ask about PVC and phthalates. I heard that the rapporteur explained that it was not just the rapporteur's area. However, the rapporteur is a member of the Conservative People's Party and a member of parliament, and I heard the rapporteur say about PVC and phthalates and foils that it has an impact on embryos and children and everything. I repeat: it has an impact on the fetuses and children and everything. And then I just ask: is this all sorts of things, after all, not more important than a few companies being able to get help to limit bureaucratic trouble?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150132	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150133	Yes, I think it is quite rightly quoted from my statement before. Well, then, we think it is important to keep harmful substances out of toys and consumer goods in addition, so that both pregnant women and all sorts of other people do not get too much in touch with them. It has not been estimated that these charges have had a huge impact on it. And I do not think I can contribute so much more than what I have said to the three who have previously asked about that area, other than to say that we also have simplicity as a goal in our legislation. And if there are charges that do not have a very behavioural effect, then we think it is sensible to remove them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150216	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150218	Perhaps, however, the rapporteur can relate to the principle that the Conservatives are tone down the green profile. Because quite a little small green has been included in next year's Finance Act, and as you know, the rapporteur has also repeatedly demonstrated in the debate here that the green is not something we are concerned with. It's just all sorts of things. It's something about pregnant women, it's something about fetuses, and it's something about kids. I think it's really too bad. The fact is that the Conservatives have, in recent years, relaxed the position of the Green Party in the blue bloc and that the rapporteur will not take it seriously, that there are a number of problematic phthalates that have an impact and are therefore endocrine disruptors and harmful to our reproductive capacity, and that the removal of the tax is directly linked to the fact that this is worsening. There we must be able to expect and demand that it makes an impression in a completely different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150330	I think it might be a bit harsh to conclude that because we have agreed to abolish an inefficient tax on certain substances, that means that we no longer have a green profile. It is perhaps just to draw conclusions which are not entirely justified. The green is certainly very important to us. There is no doubt about that, and we are fighting for it as best we can. However, this does not mean that we should then say yes to all the measures that some people are coming and claiming are good for the environment. We must also look at the impact of various initiatives, including: taxes. So we have a pragmatic approach to it, and we are not like the alternative or others who say yes to everything because it looks green. We assess whether the measures have an effect and then we say yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150415	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150417	I can tell you that the alternative doesn't say yes to anything that just looks green. We say yes to everything that is Now several praised Conservatives for being a green voice in the government, and I would also like to commend Conservatives for being a humanist voice in the government. I remember last year, when development aid had to be cut again, also hearing Conservatives go against it. Therefore, I would like to ask a little about climate aid, which has been cut by 40% since the 2015 elections. So we are constantly cutting the funds for those people who are most at risk because of climate change in the world, so that, of course, they start fleeing and set themselves in motion to get to a place where they can get something to eat and a place to live. And that also means that at some point there will be pressure on Europe. So does the Conservative People's Party think it makes sense to cut so much in climate aid to the most vulnerable countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150515	In relation to the aid that goes to needy people around the world, we have, of course, targeted our development aid to go more to the neighbourhoods. It's obvious you can't do it all. Well, you can't save the whole world, you can't help all people everywhere with everything. And now we are giving a fairly strong priority at the moment, so that the support we are giving goes a great deal to the neighbourhood of the Middle East, where there is a war at the moment and where we have a refugee situation, which I hope everyone agrees with is very tragic. We would like to give priority to this. And it is true that other pools have then been cut down around.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150554	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150555	But I am not talking about humanitarian aid. I'm not talking about development aid. I am talking about climate aid, that is, what the COP track at the United Nations is about adaptation, that is. the question of how to survive some particular places on Earth. Does the Conservative People's Party believe that it is sensible to cut aid so massively to the countries living under climate change, to which the Western industrialised part of the world has contributed primarily?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150626	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150627	After all, it is hard to say that it is sensible to cut back on projects that could help needy people somewhere around the world. It is, of course, a pity that we have to do so in isolation, but we also have to give priority, and in these years we have given priority, that the aid we give to poor countries around us must be directed particularly at what we call the neighbourhood. That is because we have some major problems down there, which it would also be wrong not to help solve. Then it can be said: is it not wrong that we should not give more money to refugees from Syria? That would also be wrong. So there's not really a good answer to this. You can't just ask everyone to have more money. So we're running out of gas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150708	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150710	Thank you. Let me start by just signing for something, sir. Rasmus Jarlov told my colleague, Mrs Stine Brix, that the Conservatives are committed to lifting psychiatry from now on. This is perhaps the best news of the day, and I know that there are many of us who want to keep the Conservative People's Party up to it, because it is so much needed. But that's not really what I signed up for to ask. When we had the first reading of the Finance Act, I also had a debate with Mr. Rasmus Jarlov. I don't know if he remembers, but I remember it clearly myself. Because then I would try to learn more about where the 5.2 billion would be found. kr., as will be found on adjustments to the transfer area. I could tell Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, that if that money were to be found by the pensioners alone, it would mean that the individual folk pensionist would lose DKK 11,000. a year. I could understand at that time, sir. Rasmus Jarlov, that so much money you shouldn't be afraid of losing as a folk pensionist. And I've been looking forward to learning how to find this very large amount of money on the transfers. It has been a number of months since we had this debate last time, it has to be said, and I know that we have no idea where that money is to be found, other than the fact that the rapporteur said just now that it is probably not on the daily allowance. Can the rapporteur today provide a little security for the many people who depend on their transfers to make everyday life work together and tell us where the very large amount of money is to be found?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150831	Wait a minute. The merry corner over there at the grip is allowed to consider whether they should not have another cup of coffee on the side, while they smile and laugh and enjoy themselves, otherwise we cannot concentrate here in the other corner. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150849	I cannot suddenly reveal a complete overall plan for what will happen to all transfer income in the coming years, but we have an ambition that there should be fewer on transfer income. That is what we are working for. For example, we hope that this will also be the result of the tax reform that we are trying to get through here for some time to come. But I can give a guarantee that you do not have to go and fear that Denmark will suddenly become a country where we have low transfer incomes. You can be absolutely sure of that. A lot would have to happen if that were to happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150927	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222150928	Perhaps that was not the most reassuring answer to be given. The fact is that the government has been very determined in its approach to who should benefit from the money. And it is true, as others have pointed out, that there is a large round zero for the government's pensionists. I think that is quite unheard of when you think of who has worked a long working life and paid their taxes as they should, so that you can see the government in this way bypassing the whole group of pensioners. They can get zero kroner in tax relief if it's up to the government. But you're very specific about who it is you think should have the money. When it comes to where you want to get the money, you have such a big black box of over 5 billion. kr. It's really a lot of money. Like I said, it's 11,000 kroner. per National pensionist, if it's the pensioners you want to send the bill to. This is totally absurd, and it is also unreasonable to create this kind of basic insecurity in the lives of some people. That is why I would just like to appeal once again that if not Mr. Rasmus Jarlov here today can give us the answer to where to find the money, then the government owes the Danes to give that answer very soon.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151035-2	Well, you have to say that to the government if you want it. I think it is such a little cheap point to start making a calculation of it based on the fact that there will have to be 5 billion. kr. on the one hand, and of pensioners on the other. There are no indications at all that we should have any plans to go out and cut public pensions on such a scale. So I don't know what to say to that. I would like to know how much the Social Democratic Party intends to give to the pensioners when you stand here complaining that there are zero crowns for the pensioners in tax relief. How much has been put on the table for the Social Democrats themselves? How much more are the pensioners going to have to pay tax, or how much is the national pension going to increase? It seems like you're criticizing something here while you don't have anything better yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151120	We can make one more brief comment, and it's from Trine Torp. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151127	Thank you. I took note of an answer given by the rapporteur to my colleague, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, that the overall policy of the government improved the climate effort and that it was due to the weather that it had to look different. But is it not true that the Danish Energy Agency in its statements on how CO 2 is progressing?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151156	The numbers I remember standing there are an increased CO2 that's how I remember it. I do not think it is correct that I am not aware of the fact that there should be any overall calculation which has shown that government policy has worsened the climate situation in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151222	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151223	Okay. In other words, what I can at least be absolutely sure is true is that the weather has been corrected in relation to CO2.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151238	Well, that's how I remember the inventory. There was a lot of debate about it here in the Parliamentary Chamber at a time when the left side was out to claim that now the government's policy had caused a large extra energy consumption in Denmark and an increased CO2 and it turned out not to be right because it was largely due to the fact that there had been a cold winter. But I have not said here, I would just like to say that government policy has led to a dramatic drop in CO2 that is not correct. But I am busy constantly, I think, defending ourselves against the attacks which are somewhat over-sharpened, from the left, where it is always interpreted as if everything we do, including this Finance Act, is a disaster for the climate. So there is no justification for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151324	Thank you so much for sir. Rasmus Jarlov's efforts and welcome to our North Atlantic candidate, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222151337	Thank you very much. The Finance Act is one of the most important laws we deal with here in the Folketing. The 2018 Finance Act has been marked by a lot of chaos and uncertainty that we have seen in the blue block. With Greenlandic glasses, we welcome the fact that for the second year in a row the government has chosen to invite us to the discussions on next year's Finance Act. Inuit Ataqatigiit would like to thank the government for creating this new tradition, in which we have felt more openness. The negotiations in the autumn dealt with both the Finance Act, the criminal justice settlement and the defence settlement. We Greenland MPs have been more involved in the negotiations than we have seen before. It is historic and it is also important for relations between the countries that we, as representatives of Greenland, are taken more seriously. That doesn't mean we're in the finish line. Cooperation is not entirely satisfactory until we are involved on an equal footing with other members of parliament and party groups, just as it is also important that Naalaksusut should of course take part in these discussions. When I arrived in the Folketing 21⁄2 years ago, it was personally important for me as a representative elected in Greenland that I not only demanded and criticised in relation to the Danish government. That would be to contribute to an unconstructive cooperative relationship which would not bring any good with it. On the contrary, it has been crucial for me personally that as a representative of Greenland I was and is a constructive and solution-oriented partner. Over the years I have been able to see a development towards a more constructive, equal and respectful way of cooperation, and I think that is the way forward. It places greater demands both on me and on the party I represent, Inuit Ataqatigiit, but the result is better for both countries. Targeted work with clear objectives, formulated in our policy proposals, has helped to strengthen, among other things, the role of the European Union. justice and, I hope, defence as well. On the way, we have met with the government and we have met with a large number of parliamentary rapporteurs in the areas. Through dialogue and cooperation, there has been listening and talking. But overall one can say that the Finance Act for 2018 is a mixed pleasure seen with Greenlandic glasses. A total of 40 million has been set aside. kr. over the next four years to strengthen justice, which is a good start. The entire area of justice is thus given a necessary first boost, but it is by no means the goal of the general boost that is needed, especially in the criminal services and the police in Greenland. In part, the judicial system has been given an ongoing boost, not least when money was set aside for the fight against massacres, something that Inuit Ataqatigiit also helped to fight for in the Folketing back in 2014. In addition, the government has promised that money will be found for police radio communications equipment, which will be replaced next year. It's a replacement for 10-35 million. kr. for essential equipment. The Greenland police today find it difficult to communicate with each other. It is not fair to the police or to the people of Greenland. It is ultimately about security for our police officers, but also about the safety of all of us. That is why I have also put pressure on Naala Suisut to find a solution in the new year. In the area of justice, a national defence office is being set up this year, but it seems that money is not sufficiently accompanied by the demands that are made for office. It is important that a solution is found, and Inuit Ataqatigiit is annoyed that this Finance Act has not succeeded, but that you have to get in and find the money within the 10 million. kr. that is set aside annually because the money will represent a large part of the sum. Despite the many meetings we have held with legal rapporteurs and with the Minister for Justice in connection with the settlement of criminal justice, it has, frankly, been a huge disappointment. Greenland is mentioned in the final agreement with words, but the settlement is set aside 0 DKK. to strengthen the training of asylum officers and improve the physical environment in the establishments outside Nuuk and for more rehabilitation measures. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we have fought to strengthen the training of asylum officers. The training is at a lower level in Greenland than it is for Danish prison officers, and to this we also fought for further training and restraint for the asylum officers. Fortunately, money has been found in the financial law negotiations for the further training of asylum officers, but these have been found in the Finance Act and not in the Criminal Welfare Settlement. In addition, the Finance Act has found room for some new initiatives, which we find very pleasing, which is targeted knowledge and dialogue about Greenland in Danish society. NUKIGA, which in Greenlandic means my strength, is a cultural and business-promoting project originating from the Greenland House in Aarhus. In the coming years, the NUKIGA will be made nationwide thanks to the government's priority of the project in the Finance Act. The NUKIGA should help to spread knowledge of Greenland in Danish society, and the goal is that at least one in five Danes should know about NUKIGA and know more about modern Greenlandic society in particular. In the coming years, Danish young people will also have to be heard about their knowledge of Greenland and the lessons they hope to have received in primary school: How much do we really know about each other's history? How much do we really know about each other's present? The questionnaire will be given priority in the final Finance Act, and it will form the basis for the forward-looking efforts for better and more teaching about Greenland in the Danish primary schools. In the new year we will work to get more Greenlanders in Denmark to work. This is welcome and I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for its constructive cooperation. It is in everyone's interest that more Greenlanders enter the Danish labour market and that we demand more active participation in the labour market. The defence conciliation negotiations are still under way and have been postponed until 2018. Inuit Ataqatigiit has not been represented at the negotiating table, but since August we have been continuously in dialogue with the Minister for Defence and with the Danish Parliament's defence rapporteurs, and there is evidence that the conciliation circle has chosen to downgrade new efforts in Greenland. Only yesterday the message in Jyllands-Posten was that the Arctic stands to become the great loser in the game of defence billions. During the late summer of 2017, we launched our defence policy initiative from Inuit Ataqatigiits with the heading •10 goals for a secure Arctic, and in the playout we presented a number of proposals for new efforts and improvements for the defence of Greenland. In this we particularly highlighted the desire for a more locally anchored defence in Greenland with a focus on the civilian tasks. We would like to see more people trained and employed at Arctic Command and Navy ships. It is thought-provoking that in the rest of the world, Denmark assists in the work of greater local involvement in defence. Education, competence building and training of local men and women in the Middle East are a priority for the government, but if we look at our own community, we can see that there is only competence building in defence in Denmark. We believe that this is wrong, especially in view of the massive challenges facing the defence industry in Greenland. We want to contribute here. I know that in the negotiations the Radical Left has supported Greenland's desire for a more locally anchored defence, so much for that. Inuit Ataqatigiit considers it important to take part in the debate and in the vote on the Finance Act, including here at the third reading, and also in spite of the fact that I am the only North Atlantic MP who is represented. However, because of the very mixed result, we shall abstain. We will work towards improving the negotiations next year with Greenlandic glasses. This requires a more responsive government and hopefully even better cooperation in the future. In conclusion, I would like to thank the government for its cooperation. I would like to thank the parliamentary parties from the extreme left to the extreme right. Thank you very much for the good cooperation this year. And at the very end, I just wish everyone a very merry Christmas. Jullimi pilluaritsi. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152315	You're welcome. There is a brief comment from Mrs Karin Gaardsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152318	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and, if I can put it right, I would say Qujanaq. The area of justice is, of course, a core area for the rapporteur. It is quite clear that we feel that in the Greenland Committee too. There have been several initiatives here this autumn and, as the rapporteur also mentioned, 40 million have been allocated. There is now hopefully also a new radio communication on the way to the Greenland police. But what is the priority that must be given to this? Because I was able to hear from the rapporteur that there are a number of requests that the rapporteur would have liked to have met, and I can actually follow the wishes of the rapporteur, because when we have talked to the police, when we have visited Greenland, a number of very serious things were also mentioned which should be changed. But what is the priority? What does the rapporteur see next?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152422	Thank you very much for the question. First of all, I would like to express our concern, because if we are to live up to the money that is needed for the national defence service, we must live up to what is stated in the notice, and then we must actually spend almost all the money that is allocated annually to strengthen the area of justice. That is why this is a very important concern on our part, because it means that there will be virtually no money for all the other new things that we know are also needed. It is, in fact, also going against Naalaksuisut's recommendation that some special money be set aside to strengthen the national defence office, and it is a pity that it is being taken from these project funds. What we would like to see is some money being set aside to strengthen, among other things. The work of the municipal officers, so that there may be two municipal officers in some places where there is only one today, so that we ensure that the police are present everywhere. This is absolutely essential if we are to ensure a proper legal society. So that is one of the specific points I will be able to draw attention to. Then we have pointed out that I believe 40 different recommendations in our legislative proposal which, unfortunately, I cannot address to everyone here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152533	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152534	Yes, there have been many suggestions in this issue of justice, but I would also like to touch on something else. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen said that children and young people in Denmark know too little about Greenland, and I very much agree with that, but I would actually like to ask the rapporteur to put a few words on what the rapporteur really wants Danish children and young people to know about Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152605	Thank you very much. I would like to see our common history known about the history of the Kingdom Community, which is also part of young people's own history. I would also like to know something more about modern Greenlandic society in particular. What I often hear from Greenlanders living in Denmark is that they are asked whether they live in igloos or ride on polar bears and such, so, excuse me, but ignorant questions. And there I think that the Danish young people also deserve to get some real knowledge both about history and very much about our present: how do things work together? What is it like living in Greenland? We also live in high-rise houses, we also have the Internet and also live extremely modern in many places, and then there are other families where you might live more traditionally. So there is a huge difference between where you live and how you live in Greenland, and I think the Danish young people also deserve to know more about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152659	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152700	Thank you to the rapporteur. What I would like to ask is the part that concerns Greenland in the criminal justice settlement. And as I read it and that is also what has been in the agreement all the time... you give the Greenlandic prisoners who sit in Herstedvester the choice between whether they want to continue to sit in Herstedvester or whether they want to go home and serve in the new asylum in Greenland. But what I can't read in the criminal justice settlement is that if the Greenlandic prisoner chooses to stay in Herstedvester, he or she will be cut off from the possibility of having his or her family visit. It is the case that today's agreement, as I understand it, provides an opportunity for the prisoner to have a visit from his family from Greenland, and there is also an opportunity at the end of the trip to Greenland. So I would like to ask whether it is not true that it is being cut off in the future. What is the rapporteur's position on that part of the agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152801	Thank you very much. After all, there has been a process in Greenland, where you have dealt with a bill that the government has presented to Inatsisartut. And there you have actually gone against what you have decided in the criminal justice settlement, namely that you really want there to be an opportunity to change your mind so that if you move from Herstedvester to Greenland, you have the opportunity to move back again. At the same time, a majority in Inatsisartut has also called for the maintenance of its rights in relation to, for example: visit from your family if it is the case that you choose to stay in Herstedvester. Many of those who are in Herstedvester today have received their verdict many years ago. Many of them have an unlimited sentence, so it could be 20 years since they got this verdict. Then you are cut off from having real contact with your family, because it costs between DKK 7,000. and 10,000 kroner. for a regular ticket between Greenland and Denmark. Most people can't just scrape it together to visit their family. So I think it has been a rather clumsy debate. It is here that I think it is really a pity that you have not had a better connection to what is really going on in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152919	Thank you. So I would like to ask whether this is something the rapporteur is working on in relation to the Minister for Justice or what is going to happen from here?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152930	We haven't finished this bill here in the Folketing, so we're going to have a debate on it where we're going to hit these things really hard. It has, of course, been a wish of a majority in Inatsisartut, and of course some solution must be found together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152947	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222152949	I would like to ask about the Greenlandic Reconciliation Commission, which has recently produced a report here. How does IA feel about the work that's been going on? I myself think that some excellent recommendations have been made; some of them may be a little unconcrete. What, of course, has a special interest on the Danish side is that there is a recommendation that one should continue working on the subject of whether there should be an apology from Denmark. How does IA view that question?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153027	Thank you very much for the question. I will choose to answer personally. Of course I represent Inuit Ataqatigiit, but it is not necessarily an expression of the overall position of the whole party. I am, in fact, slightly critical of the work that has been done. I think it is important for it to be very concrete and, in relation to this excuse, which is one of the recommendations made by the Reconciliation Commission, it is, of course, suggested that there should be a debate on whether there should be an excuse. In other words, there is a very long time left for us to actually come there and talk about a real apology. What I have noticed in the work of the Reconciliation Commission and the comments they have made is that they are particularly older citizens of Greenlandic society. I would say that there are some groups, particularly the children, who were part of the experiment back in the 1950s, which I think one might consider an apology to. But it's a relatively small group. I do not think we are talking about a real excuse for the things that have happened, because they have also had a political, what to say, the involvement of the members who were on the National Council at the time.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153144	The asker, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153145	That is, after all, a very pragmatic approach to it. I think it is important to distinguish here too between regretting some specific things that have happened in Greenland and, of course, mistakes have been made, it is clear that it is a matter of making it a question of Denmark having to go and have a bad conscience in general. There is a very big difference between the two: whether you say that Denmark has generally behaved badly, or whether you go in and say that there are some concrete things that should have happened differently. Of course, we should be open to the latter. It would have been very strange if one had gone through a story without making mistakes, and one can of course also recognise that mistakes have been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153238	Thank you very much. I think there is a huge difference between assimilation and allowing Greenlanders to be Greenlanders, even when they choose to move to Denmark. Therefore, I also think that there are some experiences in history that are interesting to take into account in relation to how we are more forward-lookingly creating a good relationship. I think it is important that it is equal and that it is respectful. This is where I think development work is still going on. After all, we also have a Constitutional Commission in hand in Greenland. I think it is important for the Danish Government and, as such, also for the Danish Parliament to keep up with that process, because it is of course also something that can have an impact on the relationship between Greenland and Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153320	Thank you very much to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who probably represents the entire North Atlantic group. Then the trip is to the finance minister. It would be a great pleasure to see him on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222153338	The pleasure is all mine. Things are going really well in Denmark. I think we should start by welcoming that regardless of which party we belong to. Denmark is entering a boom and the growth in the Danish economy last year was the highest in 10 years. This year we expect the Danish economy to grow by 2%, and all the indications are that we can prolong the recovery if we think about it. But what does it really mean that there is growth? Is this the kind of thing that ordinary Danes can feel that we have growth in Denmark? Yes, it is very much. 2% growth in Denmark means that in 2017 we have created value for approx. 43 billion kr. more than we did in 2016. For 43 billion. kr. For example, you can build seven super hospitals or a brand new Storebælt Bridge if that is what you wish. That is why we are talking about a quite tangible increase in prosperity when there is a 2% growth. in Denmark. And prosperity benefits everyone. The recovery is widely based, and historically many Danes are either in jobs or ready to take one. Since spring 2013, employment has increased by over 160,000 people, and in the coming year another 62,000 Danes will get into jobs. The recovery can also be felt in all parts of the country. Over the last two years, employment has increased in 96 out of 98 municipalities. This means, for example, that in Southern Jurs 500 more people have entered employment. In Esbjerg, 800 additional people have entered employment. It provides a stronger socio-economic environment. But equally important is that it offers new opportunities for the individual. Progress means that groups that have had difficulty in getting their feet into the Danish labour market can now get into jobs. For example: The proportion of refugees and family members in unassisted employment increased from 13 to 33 per cent after three years. 3 years. In some places, things go faster than elsewhere. The government would like to ensure that the growth in employment reaches those parts of Denmark who have had the most difficulty in benefiting from the recovery and have had it only to a lesser extent so far. Therefore, the government as the first government has ever placed thousands of state jobs outside the capital, outside Copenhagen. We have a desire to create a Denmark that is in better balance, and state jobs belong throughout Denmark, because the state is the whole of Denmark. In January we will begin the next round, and here again we will ensure a fairer distribution of government jobs, so that they are located throughout Denmark. I think that if you are born a little pessimistic, you are better off as a finance minister. But it's actually kind of hard to keep pessimism these days. Unlike previous recovery, there's a lot of evidence that this recovery is both robust and stable. We can see that many Danish families have a large savings and therefore also have the opportunity to buy a little more for themselves or renovate the house. Companies are investing more now than they did in the past. It is also going well in the countries with which we deal most, and Danish companies enjoy it very, very well. Housing prices go up, and they do so throughout Denmark. This applies both to condominiums and to ordinary single-family houses. Over the last five years, the price of single-family houses has risen by more than 20%, and that is good. For rising housing prices gives a safer economy for the many homeowners in Denmark, and a secure economy matters to the Danes' view of the future and view of their own economic security. At the same time, rising housing prices are also a sign that new homeowners have a better economy and are able to pay more for their dream home. Although housing prices have risen most here in Copenhagen, prices actually increase throughout the country. This also shows that economic progress is broadly based in Denmark. The task now is to keep the recovery on track. We must avoid overheating, bottlenecks and labour shortages. The government is determined to pursue a responsible economic policy. That is why we are gradually tightening up fiscal policy in the coming years so that we ensure that the recovery is stable and can last for a very, very long time. At the same time, it is also crucial that we have enough hands and brains when demand is increasing. Some industries are already reporting a shortage of labour. Over recent years, successive governments have implemented reforms that create room for growth and continued growth in employment. Our prosperity today is based on the reforms that have increased labour supply and thus helped to increase employment. It has been a huge success. Critics were wrong when they thought that increasing labour supply would only mean more unemployment. In fact, the opposite has been the case. That's why we have to move on that way. The government has a clear vision that after New Year we will have an agreement that lowers the tax on work for all Danes who go to work, and especially for the Danes, where the benefit of being in employment is low. Basically, work must pay better. And at the first reading of the Finance Act, the Socialist rapporteur, Annette, who is a cashier in Køge, emphasised. During the dinner break back in September I called Annette, and she is one of the Danes who actually seem to get more out of her work and look forward to a noticeable relief from the tax. And both Annette, the cleaning assistant, the SOSU helper, the craftsman deserve to be allowed to keep some more of what they earn to themselves. At the same time, lower taxes will ensure that better welfare is available. Welfare and tax relief are not contradictory, they are not a either-or. Thanks to the reforms, we now have a room for manoeuvre that is so large and strong that there is room for both better welfare and lower taxes. Because when the cake gets bigger, there's room for more proof. Therefore, the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has also agreed a Finance Act for 2018, which strengthens the welfare and security of all Danes. We are once again lifting our health services, just as we did with the previous Finance Act. We are adding an extra 2 billion with this year's Finance Act. kr. for health over the next four years. By means of these means, we will ensure, among other things, that we are able to do so. money for a strengthened emergency response in the form of an extra emergency medical helicopter in North Jutland. My experience is that a scheme such as the emergency medical helicopter makes it safer to live in different parts of the country, especially where it is far from the hospital. One of the citizens who needed a medical helicopter is Claus H. Hansen from West Jutland, who earlier this year needed the emergency medical helicopter. Claus had heart problems a little south of Lemvig and fortunately could stop at Vilhelmsborg Kro and call for help. An hour later, he was in the hospital in Skejby. Today Claus is home again and has been re-elected as a council member in the municipality of Struer. In 2016, approx. 3,600 Danes were helped in the same way as Claus received last year in the form of one of the country's three emergency medical helicopters, currently in Skive, Ringsted and Billund. Now we will have a fourth emergency medical helicopter for North Jutland, and it will in my view be a clear help and a clear increase in the safety of the Danes living in North Jutland, but also for the many others who benefit from the fact that we are now freeing up the capacity of the three helicopters we already have. But I know very well and fortunately that most Danes do not need an emergency medical helicopter; but we are actually many who need good health care during the year, and that is why good health care means a great deal to all of us. We are also spending more money to follow up the committee on close and coherent health care in the spring, so that among other things. more elderly people and people with chronic diseases can receive better and more coherent treatment. We have agreed with the Finance Act a boost in our care for the elderly of 2.7 billion. kr. over the next four years. It is money that allows us to hire over 1,000 more SOSU assistants in the municipalities to ensure better and more dignified care for our elderly. At the same time, we are strengthening free elections by means of an experimental system, among other things. with food service. The promise of care for the elderly in this year's Finance Act is based on previous years' promise, where among other things. has been allocated funds to a rock map scheme and to renovate and establish kitchens around the country's nursing home. The rock card gives the freedom for the individual to choose the experiences that he or she may require. I saw on TV 2/Fyn that a group of pensioners in Odense had chosen to make a joint trip to Odense Zoo. It may seem trivial, but there is actually a lot of what we do in everyday life, which may be trivial, but it certainly meant a lot for that group of pensioners that they could choose to go on a trip themselves. Helping to establish kitchens also means that there will now be a smell of homemade food at the Birkebjergcenter in Næstved. In fact, more than two-thirds of all municipalities have accepted and benefited from the pool, which has been distributed by the Minister for the Elderly. The government and DF agree to translate the funds in a way, so we focus on quality and efficiency. We are particularly concerned with creating a better working environment, ensuring lower absenteeism and creating better opportunities for full-time jobs in the care of the elderly. This will benefit both the elderly and the employees. Overall, core welfare in relation to health and the elderly is raised by 4.7 billion. kr. over the next four years, and it is worth noting that funds are added to the 1.3 billion. DKK, which we allocated to municipalities and regions with the 2018 Economic Agreement. This is a significant strengthening of core welfare in the years to come. The Danish Government and the Danish People's Party also agree with the Finance Act to implement a number of measures that ensure Denmark as a more secure and safer society. The Danes must be able to be safe in their own homes, and they must be able to walk freely on the streets without fear of assault and unrest. We will continue with the agreement 1.3 billion. kr. to a significant strengthening of the operational capacity of the police. The money means an expansion of the police force, more policemen on the street. This means that we increase admission to the Police School by 300 people in 2018 and 2019. We also agree to tighten up the penalties for serious violence and to take tougher action against gang crimes. We are taking a number of concrete initiatives to increase local visibility at Nørrebro, and we are setting up a new monitoring system in those places where there are particularly unsafe activities and we are tightening up the penalties for witness threats. Convicted gang criminals should no longer be given the opportunity to commit serious crime with one hand and to receive ordinary public services with the other hand as soon as they leave prison. We will establish a quarantine system for public transfers. It is also important that we take action with the Finance Act against the trend which, unfortunately, has spread in relation to digital sexual abuse, among other things. platoon of nude images. Too many people have been exposed to private images being shared. Too many girls have been exhibited and all too often the authorities have not done enough to stop the violations. That is why we are now tightening up the penalties for digital sexual abuse. We will tackle crime and we will not stand idly by when insecurity spreads. But I would also like to welcome the fact that in many areas things are going well. In fact, the number of break-ins is significantly lower than just a few years ago, and youth crime has fallen. The number of charges against young people between 10 and 17 years of age has decreased from approx. 25,000 in 2006 to approx. 15,000 in 2016. In my optics it shows that the bets we make actually work that good policy makes a practical difference. This also applies to the area of foreigners, where Denmark was one of the first countries to address the serious problems of foreigners. In doing so, we have avoided many of the problems that other countries are facing today, but we still have a great job to do. The Government and the Danish People's Party agree on a number of proposals that support Denmark's fair but consistent foreign policy. We are strengthening the fight against fraud. And we are intensifying the possibility of expelling criminal foreigners. I think that a great many, like me, have wondered why so far we have not been able to send EU citizens back to serve punishment in their own country. Of course, when a country meets the requirements of becoming a member of the European Union, I expect them to meet the requirements of fair conditions for their prisoners as well. But the Supreme Court judged it differently, and that is why it has, for example. Until now been difficult to return Romanians to serve in their own country. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Justice recently made a breakthrough in the efforts to expel criminal Romanians for prosecution and serving in Romania. The Romanian authorities have recently stated, after close dialogue with the Danish Ministry of Justice, that in specific cases they are prepared to provide guarantees of adequate service which enable us to return to the country of origin. I also emphasise this in order to emphasise that political initiatives matter and that the initiatives we have taken do make a difference. One of the initiatives we took with the 2017 Finance Act was to allocate 6 million. kr. to strengthen the efforts of the immigration authorities to include residence permits granted to refugees and family-run foreigners with a particular focus on refugees from Somalia. I just got new numbers from the Foreign Affairs Agency and their numbers per year. 17 December 2017 shows that they decided on a total of approx. 900 cases of extension and withdrawal of residence permits covered by the special withdrawal procedure for Somalia as a result of improved conditions in Somalia. In 900 cases, approx. 225 asylum permits and approx. 120 family permits. In addition, the board has notified the refusal of approx. 115 extension of asylum applications in the field of asylum and 145 extension applications in the area of family reunification. This shows that the stakes we started in 2017 have an effect. And now we strengthen and strengthen our efforts with the 2018 Finance Act. It is important to stress that when the authorities consider that a refugee or a family member can return to their country of origin, they must also return to their own country. At the same time, we note that the strict and consistent immigration policy has worked. The number of asylum seekers has decreased significantly, and we are now spending significantly less on asylum seekers in Denmark than we did in 2015 and 2016. It has released a significant amount of development aid which can now be used in the neighbouring regions of the refugees, not least around and in Syria. Thus we can help more refugees for the same money. With the 2018 Finance Act, we set aside 2.5 billion. kr. to humanitarian interventions in the neighbourhood. It is the highest amount set aside in a Finance Act ever. The strengthened neighbourhood effort will include: support the stability of conflicting countries so that fewer people choose to flee. Denmark has always made an excellent effort to help the world's weakest, and we continue to do so in 2018. We can afford more if we use the money wisely. With the 2018 Finance Act, we also make it a little easier and a little cheaper to be a Dane. We give priority to barely 0.5 billion. kr. In addition, we are extending the scheme as something new, among other things. include the installation of burglar alarms. The housing job scheme facilitates the everyday life of many Danish families and helps to turn black work into white. We will also remove the tax on free telephone and free internet from 2020. After all, Denmark has landed with the beech-light islands. We're an island kingdom. It is beautiful, and it is wonderful, but it has also given us some challenges in getting from island to island. When the Storebælt Bridge opened in 1998, Denmark moved closer together. We overcame the physical barrier, but we replaced it physically with an economic barrier, namely a bridge charge. With the 2018 Finance Act, we strengthen the infrastructure and mobility. We make it cheaper to cross Storebælt, and we bind Denmark better together. We're going to cut the rates by 15%. here on January 1, 2018, and by 25% when it is fully phased in. We unlock the traffic jams on West Funen by expanding with an additional track from 2022. Denmark needs mobility, because mobility is the prerequisite for growth throughout Denmark. Finally, I would just like to acknowledge that a broad majority of Parliament's parties have supported the new agreements in the veterinary and chemical fields. With the Politics Agreement on Veterinary Conciliation III 2018-2021... we strengthen, among other things. efforts to prevent antibiotic resistance, and with the agreement on a joint effort on chemistry, efforts are strengthened to protect the Danes and the environment from harmful chemistry in everyday life and in food. We Danes talk a lot about food. We meet each other over a meal, perhaps especially during Christmas, and we are both proud and world famous for our Danish food and food culture. I want the Danes to feel safe, both when buying food and other products, and when dealing with livestock. Therefore, we need to increase our efforts to get the worst chemicals out of our food and our products so that the Danes can meet them safely in everyday life. And we must ensure that Danish livestock can be handled without fear of being infected with resistant bacteria that cannot be treated afterwards. This year's Finance Act is targeted at better welfare and increased prosperity, because it increases the security of the Danes because it raises our health care because it ensures a dignified treatment of our elderly people, because it makes the Danes' daily lives a little easier and binds Denmark better together and finally, because it all happens within a responsible financial framework. This is not all to be believed when you have listened to the speeches made by the rapporteurs during the day. That is why I have also noted some of the contributions made by the rapporteur. I'd like to start with sir. Benny Engelbrecht. I do not know whether this is due to the very early hour, for Mr. Benny Engelbrecht used to be a committed and dynamic speaker, but it was still a rather unengaged and sad rapporteur speech that we heard from this morning. I fully agree with the need to upgrade the workforce, which is why I am actually pleased that the government has succeeded in reaching a tripartite agreement. After all, it is good that the instrument of a tripartite agreement can now be used again. After a four-year break in which we failed to reach a tripartite agreement, in the three years since the elections, we have made three major tripartite agreements, and this year a boost for training targeted at those with the least education behind them. What annoys me and puzzles me is that the Social Democrats are then totally skating over the need to increase labour supply. What we have been able to see is that there are more and more industries reporting labour shortages. We see industries where it is difficult to get the right people to come and work, and we see that the lack of labour means that several Danish companies will have to downgrade their ambitions, downgrade their growth or put a production in a subsidiary abroad instead of putting it here with us, and therefore we want to increase the supply of work. In fact, I believe that the shortage of labour is the biggest and most serious brake on the recovery that is on the way. The only risk we really need to be concerned about is whether we run out of labour too early and that we will see that there is a brake on the recovery precisely because of a shortage of labour. Then I have also heard that there are some Socialists who are going around saying that there is no problem at all, because with the reforms that have already been adopted there will be more entry into the labour market in the years to come, and I would actually like to say that is true. The reforms that have been made mean that next year's labour supply will be increased by 16 000. We just expect employment to increase by 33 000, more than twice as much as the extra labour supply provided by the reforms, and that is how it will be in the coming years. Therefore, we have the problem that if we are not careful, if we do not do more to increase labour supply, then we risk facing a situation where we return to Danish companies having difficulty in coping without having to outbid their wages and then have an unhealthy wage competition. I would like to say that some people misunderstand me. In fact, I am in favour of high wages. I would like all Danes to receive high wages, but this must be done as productivity follows, otherwise our competitiveness will suffer, as we have seen in the past. That is why we need productivity and wage increases to go hand in hand. It is also such a socialist myth that the room for manoeuvre we have today is due to the welfare agreement back in 2006. If you look at it, you will actually see that the room for manoeuvre created up to 2025 is mainly built up by the withdrawal agreement, because it brought forward some things that would only come much later, as well as by the tax reform that was much reproached in 2009, when we did indeed significantly lower marginal taxes in Denmark, but where we did so in a way that overall they have strengthened the finances and strengthened the public funds, or more directly: have created a room for manoeuvre for 10 billion. kr. kr. The 2009 tax reform is the one that means that today we have a room for manoeuvre that we can choose to spend either on better welfare or on tax relief, or, as we say on the part of the government, on a boat and where we share the two options. I was very pleased with the comments from the Danish People's Party that it is important not only to look at how much money we spend but also what we get for them. It doesn't matter what public spending is like. If we spend public spending on administration, that is not what I want to prioritise the money for. If we use public consumption because we receive a very, very large number of asylum seekers, then it is not a public consumption in the sense that many Danes put the same thing about: kindergarten teachers, primary school teachers, nurses, SOSU assistants, and therefore it is important both to look at what it is that we use public consumption for, but of course also, as we have written in our joint agreement, how we get the most out of the money we spend, so what the value is of the crown that is being put down. So we measure the money we spend in relation to what civic value it creates, and not just that a crown is a crown. A crown can be used in various ways, and I look forward to it being worked out together. I forgot to tell the Social Democratic Party that I hear such regret over and over again that the government is not in the Better and cheaper conciliation agreement, and I will just repeat what I said at first reading. The government is happy to participate fully under the terms of the Better and cheaper agreement, but every time we have asked to join the conciliation circle, criteria and demands are made that we do one thing and the other and the third that is not part of the conciliation. We're ready to repeat it here. We're ready to enter the Better and Cheaper Association on exactly the same terms as there are today. We do not want to change a comma in the text of the agreement. We're happy to participate, but if you don't want us to come, don't sound like you're inviting us over and over again. Now that has been said, and that was also said in September. I am happy to repeat it if others ask me after today's sitting. We are happy to participate in the better and cheaper settlement. We are happy to agree with the purpose that you had with the settlement from the beginning. On the other hand, we disagree on the aim of the Train Fund DK, which is why we do not want to participate there. As a matter of fact, I think that Mr. Pelle Dragsted had a very touching story about Ib Gustafsen in Malling with him on the platform. The story was that there was so little welfare in society that this 93-year-old Ib Gustafsen from Malling couldn't get cleaned up. I just thought there were some details, like Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsted forgot, which is why I just need to inform those who do not know the story fully about this: First of all, you have to be able to ask the chairman of the Health and Welfare Committee in Aarhus Municipality why a 93-year-old in Aarhus Municipality cannot get home help. - Sir, you can. Pelle Dragsted talk to his partymate about. Secondly, we can then talk about the fact that he has actually been given home help. He already got that before the article was written. He was awarded this in November, and he has already received a visit from a helper at home today and thus solved the challenge of wanting help with cleaning. When you ask why you didn't give priority to this area, I hear that in Aarhus Municipality you have chosen to give priority to personal care, health care, more than practical help. But I hope that Mr. Pelle Dragsted and I together can be pleased that a solution has now been found and that there has also been the first visit to clean at home with Ib in Malling. In relation to the alternative, I should not go into the debate about extra charges on pork roasts and risalamands; several others have tried to do so. I would just like to agree with what was said by Mrs Josephine Fock that the relocation of state jobs does not only do so in relation to creating a balance for Denmark. I actually agree with that. I believe that the relocation of state jobs is an important parameter, an important piece, in creating a Denmark in balance, but that alone is not enough. That is why we have also supported the free schools. It is the case in many parts of Denmark that what holds together in an urban community is that there is a free school where the primary school has been closed down, or as in the city where I grew up, the free school has actually been there first and was the basic line on which the education was built. Today it is again the case that free school is the only education left for the children in my childhood town. We have liberalised the planning law. We have made it easier for the municipalities to organise the development of the municipalities in such a way that there is room for development throughout Denmark. We have abolished the PRS tax, which was a heavy burden on the Production Denmark, which actually coincides very much with those parts of the country where we have needed to do something more. I am sorry, then, that, in my memory, the alternative is not part of either the abolition of the PRS or the liberalisation of the law on plans, nor does it support giving the free schools better conditions, as we are doing here, because the alternative is, of course, voting against the Finance Act later today. In relation to the Radical Left, I just have to say that the government stands by our agreements. Although granting the allowance to the IGU was not our proposal, we stand by the agreements we have during the period that is now. A 3-year trial period with the IGU is, of course, continuing. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, I would like to thank you for many good discussions on both the conditions in Greenland and, of course, the conditions for Greenlanders in Denmark. I think we have found some good elements to work on together in 2018. Just one comment was to be that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen may put one thing a little differently. I have indicated that we want to discuss the issue of radio communication to the Greenland police further with Greenland's Self-Government. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen makes it sound like there is already an agreement, but how the extra funds that are allocated should be given priority in the future is one of the issues that I believe should be discussed with Greenland's Self-Government, and we have not had the opportunity to do so. Then there have been two issues that have been raised by many, and I will see if I can get through that. One concerns vocational schools. After all, if you look at the vocational schools, you can see that in 2017 we have actually spent 6,799 billion. kr. in vocational schools, and we have set aside 6.995 billion in the budget for next year. kr. In other words, when you look at what is really estimated to be used this year and what is set aside to be used next year, you can see that the difference is 4 million. kr. The second thing I want to say in general terms is growth in the public sector. There are many who have tried to calculate it in different ways, but it is so that when you start from what is being used this year, that is the level of welfare we know, you can see that next year growth is 1%. higher, and the demographic move from 2017 to 2018 is 0.7 per cent, and thus the growth of government consumption is greater than the demographic move. Finally, I should just like to say that some of the rapporteurs have used Christmas calendars to describe the financial law process. Well, I myself believe that the Christmas calendars on TV peaked with the Christmas calendar, perhaps combined with Christmas stars, although the last of all is due to a year-long admiration for Wikke and Rasmussen's sense of humor. But perhaps we should just acknowledge that here in the Folketing there is only one true expert on Christmas calendars, and that is Mr. Roger Courage Matthisen, so we other people just have to say that regardless of disagreements, it is the case that, despite differences, disagreements, challenges and teases, almost everyone ends up agreeing on a common message of unity and cooperation for the future. And when, after the debate and the vote on the amendments, we come to the overall financial law, I also believe that, despite disagreements, challenges and teasing, we will see that the vast majority of people will vote in favour of a good and responsible financial law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160536	Thank you to the Minister for Finance, who spent 30 minutes and 45 seconds well planned and ready for debate. Let us start with a Social Democrat, Mr. Nicolai Wammen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160548	Thank you for that, and also Merry Christmas to the Minister for Finance. It must be a rather tired minister of finance who needs to be healthy, for it has been the most chaotic course of financial legislation in man's memory. Now the Minister for Finance told us not to talk about the Christmas calendar. Another example could also be used: when you have seen the Minister of Finance try to get everyone to get together while it fell around his ears, then the Minister of Finance has given the impression of being Basil from Hello at the bath hotel rather than a finance minister who had control of a government that had to deliver a result. But it's not all the finance minister's fault. Nobody's saying that. The Liberal Alliance hasn't been easy. After all, there was a foreign minister who climbed to the top of the Christmas tree almost until he had to climb down again when Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl seriously pressed his stomach. That is why it was also interesting when the Foreign Minister recently held a press conference in which he said that he was almost reborn as a politician. Now he would no longer make ultimate demands, he would try to work in a different way. But it did not last very long because the Foreign Minister finally said that he expected there to be an agreement on taxes by the end of January. Well, that's interesting, because when you hear Mr. Simpson... Kristian Thulesen Dahl, it doesn't sound as if that scenario is necessarily very realistic. So my question to a hard-pressed Finance Minister, whom I wish all the best in Christmas and New Year, is: when the Minister for Finance comes back, can we be promised that there will be a tax agreement by the end of January, as the leader of the Liberal Alliance has understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160746	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160747	If I'm Basil, sir. Nicolai Wammen would like to be Manuel, and I wish you every success in fulfilling that role. I think things are going great so far. In relation to it, whether it has been the most chaotic in man's memory, I would say that I am delighted that my wife says that husband's memory max. It's 14 days, so we're gonna get over it. But it can be a more personal comment. I'm pretty sure we'll get a good deal on lower taxes for the Danes. I do, because we have actually promised each other in the government and the Danish People's Party in two rounds that we should put the tax down. We did so when we introduced the first job reform in 2015 with the cash aid ceiling and the 225-hour rule, where we got a ceiling on how much we could get and, on the other hand, got almost a billion created. kr. to be able to put the treasure down at work. The second time was just before the summer break, where we made the big agreement to make the Danes stay several years on the labour market. Out of it came 2.5 billion. kr., which we promised each other to use to reduce the tax on pension payments, so that it pays better to save up. Therefore, we have already promised each other to meet and make an agreement on lower taxes at work.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160854	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160856	When you hear the answer to stay again in the hello at the bathhotel terminology... it's almost don't mean the war. I mean, when is this tax deal gonna fall into place? This is quite interesting because the government has just balanced and with the edge of the nails pulled itself ashore in order to save its life, and then a new deadline has now been set, namely 31 January. And it's exciting to keep following developments in when the government can plan to put itself down. That is why my question to the Minister for Finance is this: does he agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this can be achieved per year? January 31st? It is not a question of all the good that the Minister of Finance thinks he has done in the past. This is a very specific question: does the Minister of Finance agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there may be a tax agreement per year? January 31st, or is that not realistic?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160951	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222160952	I would just like to start by saying that the government has no specific date that is the deadline for the discussions. If the question is whether it is possible for us to reach it by 31 January, then the answer is: yes, that is quite clear. I don't think there's anything to suggest that we shouldn't be able to reach that when we're talking about making a tax deal. We then have it that we have said to each other that we will try to make a tax agreement and an agreement on how to tighten up the area of foreigners at the same time. It is clear that where the tax is something that is perhaps more a political discussion, because we know the strings that are, the question of foreigners is also very much a legal issue that may require clarification. So I don't have a date that I can give to Mr. Knox. Nicolai Wammen or others, but a clear expectation that if this was a matter of finding an agreement in the field of taxation alone, it could be done quite quickly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161040	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161042	Thank you. And I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the review of the Finance Act and for such a slightly different history writing in relation to previous finance laws. I would like to sign for this because the Minister for Finance mentioned many good things, which also shows that with a bourgeois government and the Danish People's Party as a support party we can see that among other things. The welfare areas, including the elderly, have received a significant boost. I also mentioned in my own rapporteur's speech that, when compared to ten years ago, there has never been as much money in the area of the elderly as there is now, and I would, of course, like to ask the Minister for Finance if he can confirm that. I am also glad that the Minister for Finance says from the platform that with the boosts we see from year to year because that is what we are talking about when we talk about demographic features between the years, there is actually a boost with this finance law, even if there are tax cuts. Although there has been a free phone, there is actually a boost in the public sector from 2017 to 2018 of 1%. I am, of course, very pleased about that, and we would like to continue to do so. Then I have another question for the Minister, which concerns the area of foreigners. There comes the Minister with some fresh figures on Somalis that have been passed through, and I would like to ask the Minister: if you look at Syrians, for example, it was not a task we could look at in the future, so take out other sections of the population and do the same exercise?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161201	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161202	I can fully confirm that we have set aside more for possible use in 2018 than what the demographic move will require. And it is, of course, a question that over the years we have had different ways of planning. We are therefore planning to make money available. At the end of 2017, we have been able to see that, for example, we have been able to see that there is a risk that the European Union will not be able to cope with this situation. what it was expected the municipalities would use, probably not quite being used, and that means that the stairs up to 2018 will be so large that, in fact, compared to the service that the Danes are receiving today, it is more than covering the demographic trait. Should we then take the learning of the figures from the Somali study? Yeah, I really think we should. I think it shows that when it comes to assessing the country of origin, when there is an extension of a temporary residence permit, it must be a real assessment. And we have together set aside funds in the Finance Act to increase the efforts that have been made, to spread it to other groups and to see if there are places in the world where we have so far had to protect people who came from there, but now have the opportunity to send them back. That is why I would just like to emphasise once again that I believe that as a rich country we must be able to welcome refugees, but when there is peace and quiet in their home countries, they must also return.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161326	Thank you. I would like to sign for this and, of course, it is something that the Danish People's Party is looking forward to also negotiating in the context of the alien package that we would like to make. Another thing I would like to ask the Minister is what kind of service we have in the public sector, that is, this factor 100. I understand that the Minister is of course very much in agreement with this and we have also written it into the Finance Act that we should look at what we really are getting for the money. Now the area of the elderly is described in the Finance Act, but I would like to ask the Minister whether he sees for himself that it is something that can be spread out more in the future, and whether the Minister also sees for himself that it is something that can be taken in a broad circle, in other words beyond the government and the Danish People's Party, where one looks at what it really is for a welfare society that we have and what parameters we have to measure for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161412	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161413	It is clear that we need to look at the wider area than just the elderly. That is where the discussion arose and it was therefore also natural that it was there that it came into the text of the agreement. It is also where I think we may have one of the major challenges. But you might as well ask yourself the question: do we spend the money in the right way when it comes to educators or nurses? We have had the whole discussion about administrative burdens and reporting, but there is also just general work organisation or the use of modern technology to ensure that we can do a job more easily than we do today. There is also the whole question of reducing sickness absence. It may be that there is a high cost pressure, but if it is due to sickness absence, it is a problem. And I would like to invite more parties to the discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161453	Then we'll have mr. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161459	Thank you. I think it's a little too bad that the Minister for Finance is a little neglecting this story about Ib from upstairs Malling, because that's kind of how I experienced it. It is wonderful if he has been visited by the first cleaning aid after five months, but I hope we can agree that this is not fair. I also think that this matter of who is committee chairman is typical of politics without talking about it. The fact is that we are facing some major challenges out there because the municipalities have had a very narrow framework to meet the challenge that is because there are more and more elderly people who need help. And I think we can agree that when you cut away 6 million home help hours, it has a meaning. That is why I would just like to hear whether the Minister agrees that things are not as they should be; that there are many people out there who do not get the help they should get, because the search for elderly care has been tightened so hard that many have even lost some of the help they could expect in the past; and that in some way it is a breach of trust with people who have actually contributed their whole lives and helped to create the welfare society that we have today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161618	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161619	When I mentioned the call to the chairman of the Committee on Health and Welfare, it was simply because I did something similar. I called the Left member of the Health and Welfare Committee in the City of Aarhus, Hans Skou, and asked: What has happened in this case? And I received from Hans a review of what was actually the background to the accumulation that has been and the priority they had set, that they had given more priority to health care and personal care than practical help, but also that already in November, that is, before the article, which Mr. Pelle Dragsted refers to the decision that he would be given home help, that is, cleaning care, and that there had now been a home helper out and cleaning the house. It just shows that if you have a dialogue with your local politicians, it may well be that something that sometimes appears to be a huge problem has already found its solution. I just recommend now that Enhedslisten also, as far as I remember, has got a little more city council members around the country... you had a few more candidates put up... that you then take that dialogue, instead of thinking that we at Christiansborg should sit and run every single municipality in detail. What we have done is that we have given the municipalities more money in the economic agreement than what was budgeted for. We have also increased opportunities with the extra half-billion dedicated to the elderly. The last half billion means that Aarhus Municipality gets 22 million. kr. extra to do good with beyond what they have budgeted in their budget for 2018. How they spend the money, I'll leave it safe for Mr. Knox. Pelle Dragsteds and mine and the other party colleagues in Aarhus Municipality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161748	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161749	The matter is of course a matter of priority, and it is perhaps a matter of priority, as the Minister uses it, that there may be such a narrow framework, and that has been the case, for example. chooses to say: We cannot afford practical help. But that's exactly what's hitting here. The problem is that overall, even with the municipal agreement made this summer, there is not enough money to meet the needs. Because, for example, if we do... Looking at public spending, just since this government stepped in, we can see that even because of the under-utilisation that has taken place, the demographic move is not being followed. I think it is the case to ignore the fact that it is possible for the municipalities to do so. I used the story of Ib as an example. But there are thousands of examples, and if you are in doubt, you can have a talk with organizations representing the elderly, with the elders or with the Elders Case, and then they will be able to confirm that there are major problems out there. I just hope the Minister acknowledges that and doesn't just say it's something we need to talk to a councilman about. Because it's about the financial framework for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161852	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161853	I had hoped that Mr. Pelle Dragsted would have seen this as a bit of a Christmas adventure that has had a happy ending, namely that Ib Gustafsen from Malling has received his home help. And he had already had that before Mr. Pelle Dragsted raised the discussion. I am not neglecting this problem, I am actually taking it very seriously, and the government, along with the Danish People's Party, has prioritised 0.5 billion. kr. extra to the area in the municipalities, because we just want some more hands to be available, that there are some more older fellow citizens who are given the opportunity to get a visit from a SOSU assistant and get help in their everyday life to do longer. It is not just a question of whether it is public consumption or not public consumption. It is also a question of human dignity, which is the situation of the individual citizen. And if, like Ib Gustafsen, you've been on your own for 93 years, I think it's perfectly reasonable for the municipality to make a person available to handle just cleaning out in Malling. I am so glad that Aarhus Municipality has found a solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161953	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222161956	Thank you to the Minister for his speech. The financial statement shows that things are going very well. I also think that is what the Minister said from the platform, which is why I am surprised that we are not really making any investments, among other things. in the green transition, and that it's cut down here. I am just surprised that the government really has such a priority, so can the Minister go a little deeper into the priority of the green transition? For it is small things, and I think the rapporteur from Conservatives has also confirmed this, which is to be found in the Finance Act on the Green Conversion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162035	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162037	I don't think it's small stuff. I think that some of the things that are about making a greater strengthening of ecology are quite excellent. The green natural pool that has been set up is excellent. But when I look at it, I may also see a little wider than just what was agreed in the Finance Act, because when I look at what the Finance Act contains, it also contains the sum of the agreements concluded during the year, including the Business and Entrepreneurship Agreement, which lowers the electricity tax. This means that it will be much easier to use the surplus heat that is in a number of companies to avoid that we have to make new heat, but that you can recycle the heat. It also supports that we have Denmark moved to an electricity society. I believe that in the long run we must be a much more electricity society than we are today, and in order to do that, lowering the electricity tax is a good first step. I would also like to see a start being made on lowering the ordinary electricity tax, because in this way we can use some of the renewable power coming from wind turbines, solar cells and other things, and use it here in Denmark, as it is produced in Denmark. Another area is, of course, that car conversion is in fact a priority for the Danes to buy cars that run longer on a litre of fuel. So I know that the question is: will there just be more cars and thus the same emissions? But that certainly means that the Danes now get easier to choose cars that are more environmentally friendly, and if the Danes make that choice even more than the government has dared to use, we will have a greener car park.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162202	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162204	I agree with the points raised by the Minister, and I also think it is a good idea to reduce the electricity tax, and when we talk about green natural pool, I think it is a good idea too. But when we look at the amount, we can see that far, far from being enough and similar in the area of ecology. That's far, far from enough. I am surprised by the actions that are, and I hear about greater coherence in Denmark and such things, but the measures that have been taken to reduce the tax on the Storebælt Bridge, the reduction of registration fees and such things help to create more traffic, and this helps to create increased CO2 In fact, the government could have done both and just made much more on the green, so there had actually been a positive balance on the environmental part of the Finance Act. I wanted the government to do that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162301	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162303	We are, in fact, making a statement in the Finance Act that we are ready to support the conversion to ecology that will be in agriculture, even if it will go further than what we have put money into. In the past it has been the case that if you changed more than there is money for, you had to wait until later. We go the other way and say that if the change should have a higher speed towards ecology, we are ready to bring more money into play to support it. Because I believe that organic farming in Denmark will have a greater and greater customer base, that more and more people will choose ecology, and I feel that we must have an agriculture that can deliver what the Danes want, what the Europeans want, and there is ecology a greater part of it in the future. In relation to whether the natural pool could have been larger or smaller, I would say that you can always make things bigger. I just hope that we can welcome the fact that we will have the whole energy and climate discussion again in a very short time when the government in 2018 comes up with its bid for a new energy policy, a new energy proposal that looks at how we can ensure a market-driven expansion of a green transition where we need to have more renewable energy into our energy system.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162411	Sir. Martin Lidegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162414	Let me start by signing for and thanking the Minister for Finance for saying so clearly that the government stands by its agreement and that it will therefore not enter into the forthcoming negotiations or in any way touch the tripartite agreement that has been made or in any way undermine the integration process which would also be completely crazy at a time when we need labour. Then there are a number of other areas in which action could also be taken with regard to the shortage of labour that the Minister of Finance is also concerned with. One is education, and the government continues to grind away with its savings in the field of education, and one has to understand that this is intended for the foreseeable future, despite the fact that it could also be a means of creating more skilled labour. Then there's another handle, and that's the tax area. And that is what leads me to ask the Minister of Finance the following question: can we be sure that when some form of agreement is reached on the tax reliefs, it is then an agreement that will actually provide a significantly increased supply of labour and that it is not an agreement that is primarily intended, if I may say so, to meet the Danish People's Party and their wishes?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162528	Thank you. Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162530	I was just tempted to just answer yes and then leave the speaking time to later. But then I remembered that I would not have to leave the speaking time to anyone else if I could have it myself. So I will start by saying yes, we will have a significant supply of labour with the agreement, but I just want to say that for me there is actually more in tax policy than just labour supply. Tax is economic, but it is actually also attitudes. It's a matter of fairness. Is it reasonable that when all the things we have adopted in the field of taxation are fully phased in by 2022, there will still be about 2 000 people out of work? 50,000 Danes who have hardly any gain in getting to work? Is that fair? If that is not fair, then we must do something about it. And the play the government put on the table will actually reduce the approx. 50,000 Danes to approx. So 29,000 Danes didn't go all the way down there, but well down there. I think that is a good thing. Does it offer a great deal of work? No, not necessarily. There will be other tax measures that will be much more effective. But does it give reasonableness in the tax system? Yes, it does. That's my priority, too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162636	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162640	I very much agree that fiscal policy is about political attitudes, and I am also fully aware that there are two ways of increasing labour supply. One is to get those who are already working to work more. The second is to make it easier for those who do not have a job at all to enter the labour market. And we may even be even more concerned about the latter, because it offers double benefits both for those people and for society. Therefore, it is also obvious with a follow-up question that says: How many extra workers do the government expect to be able to pull home? Because that is something that matters, both for the people we are talking about and for Danish business and economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162716	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162717	That's a very good question. It is the case that fiscal policy and the effects of fiscal policy depend on how much reform ends up. And I believe that all members of parliament have a great many abilities, otherwise we would not be here in the Folketing, but I do not have the ability to see into the future. So that's why I have to stay away from guessing about the size. I am just guessing that this will be a reform that will make it more attractive to save on the one hand and, on the other, to ensure more fairness in the tax system by lowering taxes on people with low incomes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162752	Thank you. And that does not matter, as the Minister of Finance said before, if you only answer with a yes or a no, because there are a lot of people on the list of speakers and we have exceeded the speaking time somewhat, but we are trying to achieve it. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162805	I am also very pleased that the Minister for Finance is talking about fairness and fairness in taxation is not just engineering, so I fully agree with that. And that is where we may look differently at what is reasonable, because we belong to different parties. When the Minister of Business was presenting the business package this autumn, he described it as a huge breakthrough for ordinary people to now be able to invest in Danish companies. As I have asked several times during today's debate, that is what I want to ask the Minister of Finance if now there is so much reason to spend a lot of money making a package where 90%. of the population will get less than 200 kroner. out of it and the 1,000 richest will get nearly 80,000 kroner. out of it? That's what we've seen from the distribution curve that's there. Is that fair? Is that something that benefits ordinary people?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162905	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162907	So if you narrow in that group, the 1,000 richest or 100 richest or two richest, you can get a lot of very, very high numbers. I'm actually looking at the effect of this. For here is the effect that we get supported a large number of companies. There are a lot of Danes who have ideas about how to start a new company, a new production, a new service, but too many of these ideas only come to the desk at home or lie in the kitchen drawer and are not realized. And when you ask these entrepreneurs what's the biggest barrier to their getting started, they say it's a lack of funding. That's why we've done something. And yes, we estimate that it will mostly be people who have money and dare to bet the money they have saved up that makes use of, for example. the new investor allowance. But it does not harm those who need the money for a good idea, and that is why I am pleased with the arrangement we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222162958	Here you go, Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163000	But I am not talking about the investor allowance, which can be seen to benefit such people with a little goodwill. I'm talking about the tax on shares. And so there isn't some little startup that's suddenly on the Stock Exchange or that distributes shares. They're not the ones to whom this is addressed. And that's also why we can see that the distribution is this way. This will mainly go to the C20 index companies, which already have a huge accumulation of capital and which pay out record dividends and make record buy-backs of their own shares. So that is also why, when we ask about it, we are told that there is virtually no job effect of this. But there is no effect on companies either, because it is the large, established companies and the investors who have the money that will make something of it here. That is why I ask again: is it reasonable to spend as much money on something as 90 per cent? of the population gets less than DKK 200. Out of?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163056	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163057	I believe that we have made a very reasonable business and entrepreneurial package. I also think it's fair to create a share savings account because I understand that it's the one that you kind of ask more specifically about that we've got inspiration for in Sweden, where you can see that a lot of Swedes use the share savings account to help support Swedish business. We hope that the same will happen in Denmark. And then I can promise that if we get a stock-saving account system like that in Sweden, it will be far more than the 20 largest companies in Denmark • it will be far more, it will seem much wider • that will benefit from the funding that is created.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163131	Thank you. And then it's sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163133	I hope that the Minister for Finance has listened to other parts of the speeches and comments that have been made in the course of the day than what the Minister for Finance pointed out in his speech. This applies, among other things, to: The Train Fund DK, where it is of course the case that the parties behind the Train Fund DK have clearly indicated that there is a need for adjustments in relation to what the government has taken from the measures, and I think we should join forces to try to resolve this at the beginning of the new year. This is not about 2018 but about the estimates, which the Minister of Finance is probably aware of. Then I just find it interesting to note that one does not want to be part of the Train Fund DK on the grounds that one disagrees with the aim of it. There are many predecessors of the Finance Minister in the Ministry of Finance who have said wise things. For example: There was a predecessor who said a few years ago that the flagship in public transport will be the so-called hour model, which will allow trains between the largest Danish cities in 1 hour or less. This means that the trip from Copenhagen to Odense comes down to 1 hour, as does the trip between Odense and Aarhus and between Aarhus and Aalborg. Those are wise words that were spoken by the then Minister of Finance, Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen in 2008. But maybe that's how you feel until you get a new one.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163255	First of all, we have budgeted this year's initiatives for the Train Fund DK in exactly the same way that we budgeted last year, i.e. the 2017 initiatives, namely the initiatives launched this year. Let's take the time model. In fact, I also find the hour model attractive. I mean, the thing about being able to move one hour apart between the big cities in the country, Copenhagen, Odense, Aarhus and for that matter Esbjerg and other big cities, I won't say Herning, I think I'm very fascinating. What was just not clear to me at the time of 2008, when I, as a member of the government's Economic Committee, supported the initiative, was that an hour model apparently requires a new railroad to be ploughed down through some of the most beautiful scenery in Denmark. We chose from the then VK government to prioritize a new motorway section around Silkeborg to avoid having to bother the Gudenådalen. I don't want to preserve beautiful nature in one place in Denmark and then in turn help make the scar down through Vejle Fjord, as a new railway bridge will cost nature there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163405	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163407	I would just like to return to what I do not think Mr. President-in-Office of the Council. Nicolai Wammen received a particularly good reply from the Minister of Finance, namely when tax agreements might be expected. I will try to ask in another way, so I think that even the Minister for Finance will be able to respond to that: Is there or is there not a deadline adopted by the government on 31 January 2018 in relation to the fact that there should be a clear agreement on tax? Isn't there a deadline or isn't there a deadline?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163440	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163442	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163446	Yeah. We've got a little extra time left. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163454	We come up with something where the Minister of Finance can answer just as exemplary cards, so keep up the good work. I just want to give you a little advice, just like MFs to MFs, before I come up with the question that you can answer very, very briefly. I am not quite sure that this is the right time for the Minister of Finance to start with such a characterization of professional competence. The Minister for Finance made an incredibly harsh remark about our rapporteur's speech earlier. I think I would take a little care of that as Minister of Finance in the present situation. There is so much wrinkled with the brows that I am quite concerned that the Minister of Finance himself has discovered how tumultarian the course has been here for the last few weeks. To the question, which can be answered in ultra- ultra-short terms: if you go a little further into the answer given by the Minister for Finance in relation to the figures that the Minister of Finance referred to about the technical schools, does it say something about the unitary costs of the technical schools? I should just like to ask the Minister of Finance: when you look at the unitary costs of the figures that the Minister of Finance had, they are going to rise or are they going to fall in the technical schools in the government's financial bill? Are they climbing or falling?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163602	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163602-2	I was just beginning to think that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil wanted me to remember the figures, but if it's just a question of whether they are rising or falling, then they fall by about. A thousand kroner. per student in the two categories in answer to question 73 to Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, given here in the last few days.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163625	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163626	I think it is commendable that we can get such a clear answer, because what is the challenge when we talk about technical schools is precisely that there has been a political desire in this Chamber to create a quality boost for technical schools. There has been a common recognition that there is a challenge to attract pupils to technical schools, and some of it is about the fact that quality has simply not been right. That is why we, as a contracting party to the vocational schools, are puzzled by the fact that the quality of vocational schools is being cut. It's come out when the unit price falls. So when the Minister for Finance speaks and says that it is only 4 million one way and the other way, it is all very well, but if we have a wish that there should be more skilled people in the future, then it is not good for the single price to fall. That was quite counterproductive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163715	It is the case that we have an agreement on the framework, but that agreement was not reached so that it was also a conciliation agreement on the economy of vocational schools. If so, the settlement would have been broken years ago. When I took out the figures on the real total economic difference, if you take the follow-up of expenditure three, i.e. by the end of 2017 and what is budgeted for next year, then overall there is a difference of 4 million. kr., and then it is just to see the picture that some have drawn from the fact that there should now almost be mass layoffs among the teachers at the Danish vocational schools, in perspective. There is virtually the same thing available.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163756	Thank you. You have to keep to your speaking time. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163800	Thank you. I know, of course, that a theme that has filled a great deal in the financial law negotiations is the wish of the Danish People's Party that refugees should not be integrated. On the other hand, they must live in some camps or centres, and adults must not enter the Danish labour market and support themselves. I don't want the kids to go to primary school. Neither children nor adults should learn Danish, as I understand the Danish People's Party. It is for me to see a deep, deeply worrying path to go, among other things. Because, of course, we know that the kind of conflict that people typically flee from is, in average, about 17-20 years long. I think, of course, that the idea of children and, for that matter, adults who sit so long in centres without becoming part of society are very, very scary. I would really like to know what the position of the Left is on that path. Fortunately, there has been a consensus over the past many years that we must work hard to ensure that refugees who come to Denmark learn Danish and that refugees who come to Denmark enter the labour market and that the children come to Danish primary school. Is that still the position of the Left?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163911	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222163912	Now I think that questions about the Danish People's Party's politics should first be asked to the Danish People's Party and questions about the government's policy to me, which is why I should not comment on the interpretation of the Danish People's Party's policy that just came here. I'll tell you what the government thinks. The government believes that we should have more refugees and family members on the Danish labour market. We believe it is important that both competences are given, which allows you to return to your home country, and competences that enable you to make it in Danish society, because we do not know how long the stay in Denmark will be. And if it is long enough, it is also important that you can manage in Danish society, including learning Danish. But if the stay in Denmark is short and for various reasons it becomes possible to return to the country from which you have fled, then of course there must also be some educational opportunities, some training and other things that make it possible to return to and help rebuild the country. That is why, of course, the question is how we give the best package, which means that if there is peace in your home country, you can come back and become an active part of reconstruction there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164017	Thank you. Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164018	The Minister for Finance is quite right that we do not know. We do not know how long the stay in Denmark will be if you have fled. However, there is a clear experience that says that this kind of conflict averages 20 years. But precisely because we do not know, does this mean that the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the government, can today refuse to support a proposal whereby children who come here as refugees are denied access to the primary school, where people who have been granted asylum in Denmark are denied access to the labour market and where neither children nor adults learn Danish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164053	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164054	Again, it seems that Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen should have been here and discussed with the Danish People's Party. I'm just telling you what the government wants. The government would like us to have the opportunity to give people who have come to Denmark a package that makes them able to manage both if they are going to be in Denmark for a long time and if they are going back to their home country. If they are to be in Denmark and manage, they must be able to enter the labour market. Then they must know our language. Then they must be able to take our cultural values and act in Danish society. This requires that we provide them with a framework so that they can do so in the future, and we will continue to do so. The much used figure is about 33 billion. kr., which non-Western immigration costs Denmark, is related to the fact that too few refugees, too few family members have entered employment. What has happened lately is that many have, fortunately, arrived.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164138	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164142	Thank you. If you read down the Finance Act, you can see that it is divided into various subjects: education, infrastructure, a better tax system, the labour market, the strengthening of the Danish cultural heritage, etc., and then there are other initiatives as the last one. And under other initiatives, there is so little to find about the efforts in the green area in this Finance Act. Now I will follow up on Mrs Josephine Fock's question from earlier: Is it really ambitious enough to look at Denmark from abroad and see that this is the Danish government's Finance Act for 2018, and that there are some tiny things about it under other initiatives? Shouldn't we be more ambitious? Should it not be its own subject, and should there not be much greater focus on and more funding for the green transition as part of Denmark's Finance Act?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164239	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164240	But it is actually the case that there are a large number of environmental initiatives, which are also included in the Finance Act, not in the agreement with the Danish People's Party, but in an agreement that has been made widely over with the Minister of Food, where the alternative is also part of the majority that supports an agreement on strengthened chemistry efforts. After all, we have previously had the environment and food in two different ministries and had two different chemical initiatives. What is happening now under the Minister for the Environment and Food is that we have a common chemical effort that helps to combat unwanted chemistry in the everyday life of the Danes much more effectively. It is not in the agreement with the Danish People's Party, because it is part of the agreements that far more parties in my memory all parties in the Danish Parliament are actually supporting.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164325	Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164327	Yeah, but now we're talking about the Finance Act. Let us take a concrete example. One might have chosen to say in relation to this finance law: why is it that we do not strengthen the market for electric cars in Denmark? I know that a recent agreement has been reached which does not, of course, strengthen the electric cars; on the contrary, it strengthens the petrol and diesel vehicles and the sale of them. But in Norway, our neighbor, in June of the year 4,000 electric cars were sold, and in Denmark 79 were sold, and the month before that was sold in Denmark. Well, it's just to say we're not moving at all. We could really be inspired by a country like Norway, which is even an oil country. And at home in Denmark it is as small as it can almost be. In other words, could the Minister of Finance also wish that we could, if only next year, thank you! ) is a little bit better at that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164414	Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164415	Finally, if we are to take the car area, I would say that we have made a more relaxed phasing-in of registration tax when car sales on the electric car market stopped altogether. And in relation to cars in general, we have done so that we have given priority to cars that run a long way on one litre of fuel. This means, for example, that: hybrid vehicles with the agreement reached will be significantly cheaper. It's still hard to compete completely with ordinary, traditional cars, because after all you have to put in two engines, and the battery system is a very expensive system to have. Fortunately, however, we know that a great many car companies are researching to make the price of hybrid cars cheaper, and when that happens, it goes through a great deal in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164454	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164458	Thank you very much to the Minister for Finance. I would like to sign for the good cooperation and the good talks that have been held during the budget negotiations. After all, the government is responsible for justice in Greenland, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we are very concerned about ensuring legal certainty in Greenland. Therefore, it is also deeply worrying when we talk to the Greenland police and police association in Greenland and they tell us that the police radio communication equipment is deeply outdated. When I spoke to the government last year in connection with the financial law negotiations, it was also recognised that the equipment had to be replaced in Greenland. It is the case that we have a different equipment than what you have in Denmark, where you have a more modern equipment in the Danish police. To illustrate the situation, one could imagine that a Greenlandic police officer was at the bottom of the pile in a mass battle and has to call for reinforcement on his own phone, and it actually illustrates how absurd this situation is and how difficult it can be to ensure proper legal certainty. So I'd like to hear the government: what's the alternative? Isn't that doing something to ensure that the police get their radio communications equipment updated?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164613	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164615	I know the problem from our conversations. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has raised the issue quite often when we have had discussions of a different nature, and I also recognise that there may be a problem. When we do not go in and say that we are doing exactly this and this, it is in respect of the normal cooperation practice that we have, and the good cooperation that we have, with autonomy in Greenland, that when we come up with such an initiative as the 40 million more that we set aside with the Finance Act to strengthen the area of justice in Greenland, we have a dialogue with Greenland's self-government on how we should prioritise the funds. Of course, I expect the Minister for Justice to do that only in the new year, so that we can get the money put into use. I believe that there are several areas that might need a boost. Fortunately, we have specifically addressed the issue of the training of prison officers with the financial agreement, but there could be other areas that also needed a boost. We do this together with Greenlandic self-government.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164712	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164714	It is true that if a new radio communications equipment is to be set up in Greenland and it is up to the government itself to do so, it is estimated that it will cost 35 million. kr. That is why I think it is very positive that the government has said that that money should not be taken from the 40 million. kr., because then the money will actually have already been spent there on it. As we heard earlier in the debate, many of this money is going to go to the National Defence Office, and the Minister for Finance knows that money cannot be spent twice, so we are in a situation where we really need to focus not only on this 40 million. kr., but also looks further, as to what it is that is needed to strengthen the justice area in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164755	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164757	That is, in general, a very good point: although we are standing here today and discussing a great deal of the agreements that have been reached, we should not just look at the agreements. We need to look at the whole amount of money we spend on, for example. the Greenlandic legal area or for that matter in all sorts of other areas. That is why, of course, we in the government are also interested in looking at whether we are spending the money properly along the way, we get the right thing for them, or we can prioritise them differently, so that we can help where the need is greatest. There I acknowledge that there is a problem with radio communication equipment for the police in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164830	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164834	The Minister for Finance said at the outset that there is always something to worry about as Minister for Finance, even if things are going well. I would like to thank you for your cooperation on the business agreement, which I think landed well and is a contribution to something that can increase growth also in the coming years to the benefit of all Danes and Danish companies. But it is true that what worries you when things go well is whether it can continue to go well. So, do we have enough hands to provide welfare and to create growth in companies? And there you can get worried when you look at the government's efforts to do something about it, because it is not a broad cooperation. There the parliamentary basis is always devoted to it. And there we understand that fewer refugees must be available in the labour market. We note, also on what the Minister of Finance says today, that at least one does not dare to put one's head on the block when it comes to the fact that a large investment in tax relief should contribute significantly to increasing the supply of labour. Foreign labour, which was another option, is probably not really on the table either. And then you make finance laws where you save on education. So I just ask: Why is it that you do not seek a wide range in the Danish Parliament, also when the major task of obtaining labour is to be solved, but is constantly stranded with the Danish People's Party?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164949	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222164951	I am, in fact, glad that parties so willingly and almost supplicatingly report and would like to be involved in making agreements with the government, but it is now the case that the government often starts by discussing matters with its parliamentary basis. In the business sector, with the business and entrepreneurial agreement, we actually made a boost, an improvement compared to key employees in Denmark, so that you will have the opportunity to stay here for 7 years instead of as before for 5 years. This helps to make it more attractive for foreign key employees to come to Denmark and work. I know, for example, that our entire Medico industry is very concerned that they can be here longer. With regard to foreign labour in general, there are, of course, a great many newspapers every day, but Mr. Morten Østergaard must not have turned to Jyllands-Posten's occupational supplement, where the Minister for Employment has just announced an increased effort to get more foreign labour to Denmark. But first of all, I think we should make an effort to get Danes who are not in employment into the labour market. And that is why it is also good that the Minister for Employment is in the process of simplifying all the legislation on active labour market policy, active employment policy, so that our employees in the municipalities can spend more time getting people into jobs and less time on administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165105	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165107	Having followed the course of December, one can understand that the government may be a little nervous about its parliamentary basis, but it is not a natural law, as the Minister of Finance says here. Four years ago, a bill of finance was made widely in the Folketing in the government of which I was a part. We made tax agreements together, we made business agreements together, so of course a government can choose to cooperate broadly in the Folketing, if the important thing is what is being implemented and not who you are implementing it with. My point is that what remains is that if it stands to reason that the government believes that the shortage of labour is the biggest challenge for Denmark, then you will have to run your forehead against a wall every time you apply to the Danish People's Party alone, because they do not want more foreign labour, do not want better integration, do not want to use taxes as a tool to create more labour. You just want to cut back on education, and it doesn't help either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165156	Thank you, please keep your speaking time. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165157	I don't recognize the picture that we don't make broad deals. We did so from the very beginning of the year when we made the North Sea Agreement, which is quite broadly based in the Danish Parliament, and which helps to ensure that Denmark gets invested in the North Sea and gets the reserves of oil and gas up that is. The housing tax agreement, which is a very long-range agreement, which is probably only implemented in 2060 or 2080, is a very, very large, very comprehensive and very broad agreement. So we like to make broad deals. I also do not recognize the picture that the Danish People's Party should be opposed to increasing the labour supply by lowering the tax. We have done so many times by the government together with the Danish People's Party, and I hope we will do so again at the beginning of 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165240	Thank you. And then it's sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165243	Thank you for that, President. I would like to ask about the government's original proposal for tax reform. It's kind of hard to figure out what the government wants in tax matters. It can be said that this is rather chaotic, but I am still trying, because the original proposal for a tax reform contained such a financial clause, which was about finding up to 5.25 billion. kr. for financing in 2025. And they had to be financed through unspecified transfers... I think that's what the original proposal said. I tried, when we had the first debate on the Finance Act, to ask the Minister for Finance where this money would basically come from. That is why, just to clarify this, I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: is the original proposal for tax reform that was put forward still the government's policy? Is that what we are talking about in the tax reform negotiations, which we understand must take place here after New Year? It must almost be, because I assume that it is included in the government's overall 2025 plan that it is intended to honour its promise of tax reform. That is why the question remains: how are they going to do that 5.25 billion? kr. is financed by transfer income in 2025?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165359	Thank you. And here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165400	Now it was a lot of questions in one introduction, so I'll see if I can reach them all, but otherwise Mr. Morten Bødskov asks again. First of all, we are asked whether our tax policy is the same. Yes, the things we have already adopted should not be retabled. So, in our tax proposal, there was also the question that we should have lower car taxes, and that has been implemented, so we are not proposing that again. In our tax proposal, there was the question that we should have abolished the compensatory tax on large pensions and that we should have abolished the tax on free telephone and free internet. After all, all these things have been agreed, and that naturally means that what we are proposing is adapted to the reality and the agreements that have been reached so far. To the question of the 5.25 billion. kr. I can say that it is the case that, in the agreement on business and entrepreneurship initiatives, we have provided funding of some 900 million. kr. by standardising the system of reimbursement in the field of employment in the field of activation. That is part of what was at the root of the original 5.25 billion. kr. In addition, I can still point out the areas we have mentioned from the outset: the question of a ceiling on the number of children who trigger child benefit, the question of... Thank you President).
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165519	Sir. Morten Bødskov.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165522	Yes, it was a pity that the Minister of Finance was not allowed to speak a little longer, because that is actually where it is starting to get exciting. For although it is true that funding has been provided in the order of 1 billion. kr., I guess it's about a three that's still missing. That is why I would like the Minister of Finance to continue and, if necessary, confirm or deny whether what is at issue is savings in the area of unemployment benefits. Is that what needs to be filled up to the 5.25 billion? kr. In 2025? We can hear that it is savings on the children's check, which is now in the pipeline. What about the SU, what about the graduates? Can we have an answer to what it is that needs to fill up to such a great amount of savings as this is and which, I understand, still have to finance significant reductions in personal taxation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165613	Thank you, and please keep to your speaking time. Here you go, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165614	Yeah, it was kind of a cliffhanger like that to stop halfway inside a sentence. But the excitement is not gonna be quite that great when I go on, because I think, sir. Morten Bødskov and others will recognize the answer from the first time we had this discussion. We want to set a ceiling on the number of children who give rise to child benefit. We want to introduce user charges on Danish education for foreigners who are currently receiving it free of charge, and we want to make a number of profit principles on various services that make foreigners who come here have to provide before they can enjoy. We think that is fair; we think that is the way we should go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165653	Thank you. And it is absolutely permissible to finish a sentence, you just have to economize over time. Here you go, sir. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165702	Thank you. I would like to return to the savings in vocational schools that we have discussed before. After all, the Minister for Finance admitted in an exemplary and honest manner that the unit price will fall, so to speak, that it will cost less to train the young people we need next year. My question, then, is: why?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165723	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165724	I believe that public servants are as good as private employees. And I believe that when we can see that the private sector can streamline and increase productivity by approx. 2% It is also possible to do so in the public sector per year. That is why we have chosen to say that the public sector in general must be able to deliver 2% more efficiency. They can do this by cutting down on their energy consumption, their building stock, their administration, using new technology or other, but we leave that to the individual skilled managers in each institution. We also believe that a number of educational institutions will be able to deliver a 2-percent efficiency. We have asked them to do so this year, and we are asking them to do so in 2018. And that is why we have said to vocational schools too that they should expect to deliver a little more, including per year. student. But when I use the totals, it is because some have drawn a picture that we have mass redundancies on the way in the vocational school sector, and I just do not recognize that. When I look at what is used in 2017, and what we have created spaces for use in 2018, the difference is in relation to an extent of almost 7 billion. kr. of approx. 4 million kr.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165834	Thank you. Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165836	My colleague Mr. Mattias Tesfaye tried earlier this day to get an answer from the Left rapporteur as to whether this ever ends. Well, how long can you imagine it going on? Because when you look at the financial perspective years, there remains a re-prioritisation contribution. Are you going to expect the vocational schools to do less and less and that it will never stop as long as the Left is in government? That is the first question. The second is: how can the finance minister himself think that this is a priority, that this is a quality boost to vocational schools, when what it really is is a cut?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165909	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165909-2	To start from behind: next to this, we have provided an additional room for manoeuvre for vocational schools so that they can carry out the investment in the building stock which they had actually budgeted for and which was far above the budgeted, far above what was agreed. Similarly, it requires funding for the room for manoeuvre in the economy, as if we had given it to operation. Therefore, we actually add a larger part of the scope in 2018, than they got in 2017, a part of it just goes to operation. Then I come to the question: does the efficiency never stop? No, that question is not coming!). Maybe it'll come back!
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165946	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222165958	Thank you. Last year Denmark's CO 2 Rasmus Jarlov spoke earlier. We know that the suffering child of the climate in Denmark is the transport sector; there will be CO2 So, despite that, we have a Finance Act today, which, with this whole agreement on vehicle taxes and the reduction of the tariff over Storebælt, risks increasing the emissions of CO2 transport. My question to the Minister of Finance is: is it responsible? How will the Minister of Finance explain to our children and grandchildren that, in exactly the years when we had the opportunity to put an end to this crisis, we were more concerned with tax cuts and with growth than with reducing CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170108	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170110	As I said at the beginning of my speech here today, it makes us richer that we have growth in Denmark. Growth rate of 2%. means that we create a value more in Denmark of 43 billion. kr. That growth is crucial to whether we can afford to make the efforts we think are necessary. And what does growth create, what is the prerequisite for growth? Yeah, it's a strong business. One of the reasons why we have had an increase in CO2 It also increases CO2 It is too much covered by the quota system that we have, and that means that increased CO2 Then it is true that the transport sector is special, because it is not quota-related. Therefore, we would also like to support the fact that more and more shifts are being made to rail, and it should be borne in mind that the lower price over Storebælt also comes from the fact that the tariffs for passenger transport on rail have also been reduced.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170219	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170220	It was then an answer with a number of built-in contradictions, namely that growth is a prerequisite for the green transition and that business progress is the cause of CO2 but let it lie. We do not have 200 years to resolve this crisis, and I would ask the Minister of Finance to answer my question: how will the Minister of Finance explain to our children and grandchildren that in precisely these years, when we had the opportunity to curb this crisis, to take advantage of our role in the world as a pioneer country, to show the rest of the world how this can be done, also in relation to our transport sector, was more concerned with tax relief and growth?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170256-2	I would like to say with pride in my voice that the government is doing a great deal to support a transformation in Denmark, that we have high targets for more renewable energy, that with the energy project coming in 2018, we will have a market-oriented transformation of our energy structure, so that we have more renewable energy sources put into play, and that with the entrepreneurship agreement we will have reduced the electric heating tax that has prevented us from creating a proper green transition in our business. So we are, in fact, addressing with the agreements contained in the Finance Act some of the green transition that is so important.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170335	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170338	Thank you. In the coming year there will be media negotiations, and I think that one of the most important things about the media negotiations is to ensure that we continue to have strong public service content in Denmark, but also that the Danish content, which has historically been very strong, remains so in the future. Some of what threatens Danish content are large foreign players such as HBO, Netflix, Google, Amazon, who enter the Danish market and suck a lot of money out of the market. They do not pay for Danish content, which means that there is a risk of weakening Danish content in the future. There are several of the major European countries, Italy, France, Germany, who have created a streaming tax and said that these big players must also help to pay the bill and to secure national content. What is the government's attitude towards introducing such a streaming tax that can help finance Danish content in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170434	I have not heard of a streaming tax before, so I cannot say whether it is something that someone has thought about, but will just give an immediate answer: I do not think it is the solution to the problem. I think that our challenge and I acknowledge that we have a challenge... is that my generation is among the last to watch regular flow television. When I look at my children and their comrades, I see that they rarely sit in front of television to watch flow television, that is, regular broadcasts planned in advance. If they're sitting in front of a TV screen, it's usually to play PlayStation or to watch something they're streaming. And the challenge is not to keep them from watching foreign things on television; the challenge is to create a framework where we get Danish-produced things • news, culture, entertainment, children's television, timely programmes • Danish-produced public service, which comes out there where future media consumers are. The challenge is that the service providers, in other words the service providers we have today, the stations we have, are not necessarily the answer to the challenges of the future. That is why I think we need to think quite differently about how we define the public service delivery in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170548	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170550	Those countries that have created such a streaming tax have said that streaming services have to pay part of their turnover annually to national content. Well, I don't want to prevent young people from seeing foreign content... so do I myself... but just make sure that we also have strong Danish content in the future and a strong public service, and that is threatened. The government's own committee on financing Danish content in the future has just come up with a report recommending such a turnover tax. There has just been an article on DR News that shows that both the Danish People's Party, the Social Democratic Party and several other parties, i.e.. a majority of the Folketing recommends such a turnover tax. So does the Minister not think that one could aim for such a tax that could secure Danish content in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170637	Thank you. And here you go to the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170639	Some of the countries that were mentioned, without remembering them all in my head, sometimes I may have suspected that they would hit foreign television more than actually create a source of funding. I believe that what we have to do on the Danish side is to ensure a strong Danish content. How we then create the framework for it, the funding behind it, there will be time to discuss when we need to talk about a media reconciliation. What I think we should just agree on, and on which I also believe we agree, is that we are at a time when the media picture is being completely changed in a short time. Both the devices you see the media and the way you see the media are changed. And if we do not think well and dare to take possible steps to change the platform we have today, we risk falling behind and losing the possibility of having public service material in Danish and thus losing some of our culture.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222170729	Thank you. And that was the last question, so thank you to the Minister. Then we shall postpone the sitting for ten minutes until 10 a.m. 17.15.
ParlaMint-DK_20171222172008	The sitting is resumed and we shall proceed to the votes on amendments to the Finance Act. To section 5. Prime Minister's Office. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: One by the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. To section 6. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2-5 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 550 of the RV rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 6-26 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 7. Ministry of Finance. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 27-46 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 8. Ministry of Industry. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 47-51, 595 and 52-60 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 9. Department of Taxation. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 61-63, 596 and 64 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 551 by EL and SF. The vote is over. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 65, 597 and 67-71 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 10. Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Interior. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 72 and 73 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 552 of S, EL, TOTAL, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 (DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 553 of the SF. The vote is over. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 74 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 554 by Mr SF. The vote is over. In favour of voting 12 (EL and SF), against voting 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 40 (S, ALT and RV). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 75-81 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. For section 11. Ministry of Justice. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 82 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 83 and 84 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 85 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 88 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 86 by the Minister for Finance. The vote will end. In favour, 88 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF) voted against 19 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 87-93 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 12. Department of Defense. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 94 and 95 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 14. Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 96 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 65 (DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 43 (S, EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 97-100 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 101 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 102 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, SF and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and RV), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 103 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 104 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 105 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 106 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 107-113 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 555 by Mr SF. The vote is over. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 598, 599 and 116-118 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. For section 15. Ministry of Children and Social Affairs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 119-154 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 16. Ministry of Health and the Elderly. Would you like to vote on Amendments 155 to 98 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 199 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 17 (EL, RV and SF), abstentions 35 (S and ALT). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 200-202 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 17. Ministry of Employment. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 203-206 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 556 by EL and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 16 (EL, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 35 (S and ALT). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 207-216, 600 and 218 of the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 557 by SF. The vote is over. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 558 by RV. The vote is over. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 601 and 220-266 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 19. Ministry of Education and Research. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 267-307, 602, 603 and 310-318 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 20. Ministry of Education. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 319-322 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 560 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour of 33 (S and SF), against 75 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 559 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 323-326 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 561 by S, EL, ALT, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 (DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 327-345 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 346 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 29 (S), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 347-375 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 21. Ministry of Culture. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 376-380 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 381 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 62 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 43 (S, EL and ALT), abstentions 4 (SF). The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 383-416, by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To paragraph 22. Church Department. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 417 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. To section 24. Ministry of Environment and Food. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 418-443 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To section 28. Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 444-447 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 448 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 94 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 14 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 449-451 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 547 by Mr EL. The vote is over. In favour of 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 29 (S). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 452-457 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 562 of the S as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 458-461 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 548 by Mr EL. The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 40 (S, ALT and RV). The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 462-465 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 563 and 564 of the S as rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 466, 604-608, 469, 470, 609 and 471-473 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 29. The Ministry of Energy, Supply and Climate. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 474-477, 610, 611, 478-486, 612, 613 and 488 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To section 35. General reserves. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 489-493 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 565 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 566 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 494 and 495 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 549, by Mr EL. The vote is over. In favour of 12 (EL and SF), against 57 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 40 (S, ALT and RV). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 567 of the SF as rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 568 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 496 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 569 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 570 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 497-500, 614 and 501 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 571 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 502 of the Minister of Finance? It's agreed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 572 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 503 of the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 573 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 504 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 574 by Mr S who has been rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 575 of the SF rejected. It has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 576 and 577 by Mr S who were rejected. They are rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 505 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 506 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 84 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 507-520 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 521 of the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 578 and 579 of the SF rejected. They are rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 580 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour 41 (S, EL and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 11 (ALT and RV). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 581 by Mr S. The vote is over. For 40 votes (S, EL and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 11 (ALT and RV). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 582 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour 46 (S, EL, RV and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 583 by Mr S. The vote is over. In favour of 33 (S and SF), against 75 (DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 584 by Mr S. The vote is over. For 40 votes (S, EL and SF), against 56 (DF, V, LA, KF), abstentions 11 (ALT and RV). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 585 of TOTAL. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 56 abstentions (DF, V, LA and KF), 28 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 586 of TOTAL. The vote is over. 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF) voted against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstained 28 (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 587 of TOTAL. The vote is over. In favour 15 (ALT, RV and SF), against 64 (DF, V, EL (by mistake), LA and KF), abstentions 29 (S). The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 588 and 589 of the RV rejected. They are rejected. Amendments shall be put to the vote and 590 by EL, ALT, RV and SF. The vote is over. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 591 by EL, TOTAL, RV and SF. The vote is over. 23 votes in favour (EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 against (DF, V, LA and KF), 29 abstentions (S). The proposal has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 592 by EL, TOTAL, RV and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 85 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The proposal has been rejected. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 593 by Mr RV as rejected. It has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 522 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. For section 36. Pensioners. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 523 by the Minister for Finance? It's agreed. For paragraph 37. Interest. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 615-628 and 528 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Article 38. Taxes and charges. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 629 by the Minister for Finance. It's agreed. I'm sorry! The vote will have to be taken just before it is adopted. Here you go. That was the end of the vote. In favour of 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 12 (EL and SF), abstentions 6 (ALT). The proposal is adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 594 by S, EL, ALT and SF. The vote is over. In favour of 52 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), 56 (DF, V, LA and KF) abstained from voting 0. The proposal has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 630-640 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 641 by the Minister for Finance. The vote is over. In favour 85 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The proposal is adopted. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 642-652 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. To Article 40. Reloans etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 653, 541, 654-660 and 542-544 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 41. Stock movements, etc. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 661-666 by the Minister of Finance? They are adopted. To Paragraph 42. Net government debt write-offs. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 667-669 by the Minister for Finance? They are adopted. I propose that the examination of the draft budget be stopped and that the draft law be referred back to the Committee on Finance. Are there any objections to this proposal? It's agreed. The proceedings shall then be suspended. ]
ParlaMint-DK_20171222175220	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held later today at 2 p.m. 19.00, where we continue with the second part of the third treatment of L 1 and the third treatment of L 2 and L 3.
