ParlaMint-DK_20170531090049	The meeting is open. The closing debate today will be interpreted in sign language. It might be that with the unrest in the Chamber we should start in sign language now so that the deaf can follow the debate. The sign language interpretation can be found directly on the Danish Parliament's website, www.ft.dk, and subsequently on demand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531090120	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption is not postponed. It is first Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party, for a reason for the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531090203	On behalf of the questioners, who are all of us, and it is good to be able to speak on behalf of everyone, I would like to explain the question. At this time of the parliamentary year we have a strong tradition, namely that we take a status in the parliamentary year that has passed. That is why we are jointly asking the Prime Minister of the country, in the tradition of the country, for an account of both the domestic and foreign policy situation in which Denmark finds itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531090241	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. Then it's the PM for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531090257	When I became Prime Minister again after the parliamentary elections almost two years ago, I put four point marks for Denmark, which the Triple Government, which has since been formed, holds on to. The first point of reference was more private jobs, with thousands of new jobs and far fewer unemployed. The second pointer mark was a stronger core welfare. We have invested in this with billions of dollars for better cancer treatment and care for the elderly. The third point of reference was a number of members of the working community, and we have received that. We now have the lowest number of people on public support for 10 years for 10 years! The fourth point was a consistent and realistic foreign policy. We have carried it and it has worked. The number of asylum seekers for Denmark is historically low. Since the parliamentary elections, Denmark has become stronger, richer and safer. That is why I would also like to start by thanking you for your cooperation in moving our country in the direction I have outlined here. A special thanks to the Danish People's Party, the parliamentary basis of the government. But I would also like to thank you more broadly, because despite differences across the parties of the Folketing, we find many good solutions together. And finding solutions together is thus a unique Danish strength. That is also why I can say that Denmark stands strong both at home and abroad. We have a healthy economy that is internationally trusted and we are now for the first time in at least 183 years without debt in foreign currency. The last time that was the case was under Frederik VI, absolute king. Since then, we have had a fight with the absolute monarchy, I know we have a strong business community, a strong business community that is progressing and that I have had the privilege of representing in the course of the year in the United States, South Korea, Mexico and most recently in China. And wherever you come, Danish companies are met with respect and interest and with a great demand for our sustainable climate solutions, because here Denmark is absolutely world-class, and it is emphasised that we have just been awarded the host of the world's largest energy conference, Øresund Energy Week. We have a good public sector with many skilled and many dedicated employees. We trust each other. We have a strong culture that binds us together. We take care of each other. And when you ask the Danes, most people look to the future. So do I! We have together created a strong society, not a perfect society, but a place where the vast majority have far better opportunities than previous generations. And that's how it's gonna go on. We must also be among the richest countries in the world in the future, and that is why yesterday the government presented the plan "Growth and prosperity 2025" with an ambition to increase growth in Denmark by 80 billion. kr. That is a high ambition, but why should we not have high ambitions? Who is in favour of low ambitions? We need to have high ambitions about growth, about more prosperity, about more in work, about better and more well-paid jobs, about stronger public service, about lower taxes and about making Denmark even stronger. We want to strengthen the public sector with more money for welfare and higher investment. We want to create more growth, put taxes down, so that more jobs grow, and so that families get more money between their hands • more money between their hands for the close, personal welfare. We will hold on to a healthy economy and a solid economic impetus for future generations, so that we pass on a richer Denmark to our children, the next generation. It can be done if we want to. And I would like to call on the parties of the Folketing to take responsibility for this, because we must use the favourable situation that we ourselves have created to make Denmark even stronger together. That is why yesterday the government presented a number of proposals designed to make a very good Danish pension system even better and to encourage more people who have the opportunity to do so to choose to stay longer in the labour market. Firstly, we want to address what is a little technically referred to as the problem of interaction, but which in other words covers the fact that, for some, it is not at all worth saving up to pensions because they are set off against public benefits. We will, among other things. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the excellent work he has done in this area, and for the excellent work he has done in this area. Secondly, we want to ensure that more Danes actually save up for their old age. For as it is today, many Danes save too little or not at all up to pension. That is why we want to introduce compulsory pension savings for people on the edge of the labour market, people on transfer income, employees with no or small pension payments. There's perspective on that. In the 1980s, the occupational pensions which today provide most employees with a good senior life were carefully opened up. Now it's our responsibility to bring the rest. Thirdly, we will allow voluntary tax-free payment of the pre-retirement contribution to those who want it. And we want more than that with a total of 13 good initiatives, which will both benefit the individual, for personal welfare and for the community. The personal welfare of the Danes is a priority of the government. That's why we've lowered the registration fee twice, so a medium-sized family car now costs DKK 20,000 - 30,000. smaller and more families can replace the old car with a new, safer, more comfortable car. And we have also calmed down the family's housing economy first by freezing the land debt, then with a housing tax agreement and an agreement for a new property valuation system, so that after years of uncertainty, the property owners now have certainty about their housing economy and get back the money that has been wrongly charged since 2011. These are good agreements that I would like to sign for cooperation on. They create security for families, create peace in the housing market, and in both cases there are things that also contribute to Denmark's progress. Continuing progress depends to a large extent on our having strong and competitive companies. They are, so to speak, the engine of Denmark's growth and development, and that engine must be top tuned to the future. That is why the government has an ambition to lighten the burdens of business by 6 billion. kr. Towards 2025. We have removed the PSO tax, perhaps the greatest burden relief for Danish industry ever. And we have removed it in a way that ensures both growth and funding of the green conversion and the Danes at the same time get cheaper electricity in the outlet. We have concluded a North Sea agreement which will maintain and create new jobs along the West Coast, in Southern Denmark, in a large port city such as Esbjerg. In the new parliamentary year we will come up with a proposal for a new energy agreement to maintain Denmark as the leading climate nation in the future while at the same time making energy cheaper. We lower the housing and gift tax by transferring a business business so that family-owned companies do not end up in foreign hands when a generational change approaches, but stays in Denmark; so that it is ensured that the money stays in the company so that new Danish jobs are created. Together it is a series of significant initiatives which strengthen Denmark's engine and create more jobs. Look, it's good, but it's not enough. For the future is just around the corner. It's called many things, but it's the same thing: the fourth industrial revolution, digitalization, artificial intelligence, internet of things, biotechnology, three-d-print, robots, self-driving cars, and what it's all called. This is new technology that will change our everyday lives and our business at a pace that we have not seen before. But we have faced changes before, and we have turned them to our advantage in the past; we have turned sewing rooms into designs; shipyards into windmills; and we have to do that again, in new ways that suit our time. Here we must first of all make use of the Danish x-factor: cooperation. That is why I have brought together a wide range of employees' representatives, employers, companies, entrepreneurs, experts and ministers in a partnership for the future of Denmark. Together we must find answers to how Denmark can best seize the future without losing anyone on the road. And together with the social partners, we have revived the tripartite agreements that a previous government put into the grave. First, we reached an agreement on integration, then we agreed thousands of new internships, and in the next round, which will soon begin, we will create more and better adult and continuing training so that everyone will be ready for the future. Because the answers get better when we find them together. This also applies internationally. And that is why I am genuinely concerned about what I see in the world: increasing protectionism, uncertainty about our basic security, uncertainty about international action against climate change, resentment of the institutions around which we have built the whole international order, a Great Britain on its way out of the European Union with major consequences for Europe and Denmark, for our businesses, for the Danes. There's a lot at stake for a small open economy like ours. We have created our wealth through trade with the rest of the world, and more than half of our exports go to the internal market. We have long taken for granted that our companies can simply trade cross-borderly without barriers, without customs and customs controls. Can we keep doing that? Denmark has no interest in the world closing its doors to itself on the contrary. We need international cooperation, free trade agreements, openness, an international legal order. And we need effective and focused EU cooperation. We need a European Union that prioritises free trade and a good framework for growth with a strong internal market; a European Union that protects external borders and takes effective action against migration; a European Union that safeguards our security; a Europe that assumes greater responsibility for our own security. Things are connected. We cannot separate our political initiatives at home from the developments we are seeing out. And that is why the government will present new initiatives, such as: must strengthen our international competitiveness. When others run fast, you fall behind if you stand still. And we need to make progress. We must equip Denmark for the future. Therefore, there must be a strategy for Denmark's digital growth, which must make Denmark fully ready to seize the technological opportunities. That is why there needs to be a technology pact in which business, educational institutions and the public are working together to create the technical and digital skills required by the business community. Because I want to insist that Denmark and the Danish business community should move forward into the future, i.e. that we seize all opportunities. It also requires everyone to do what they can, and that's why it's better to be able to work so that more people earn their own money rather than live off others' money. In the autumn, the government will present a tax proposal in which we will lower the tax rate at the bottom, because it must pay better to work than to receive public support; at the top, because we must be able to attract skilled people to our businesses. It will also contribute to prosperity and prosperity, which will benefit the whole country. Because it is a key priority for the government that we have to make progress to take root outside the big cities. And that is why we have taken a break with the law of plans, which limits development and opportunities in the areas of Denmark that need it most. We have started investigations into a new Mid Jutland motorway and an extension of the Hillerød motorway, and we have decided to expand the East Jutland motorway E45 between Aarhus and Skanderborg. We have taken one of the most drastic steps I can think of in order to eliminate geographical imbalance. We're moving state jobs out. After a parliamentary term 2011-2015, when 237 state jobs were relocated out of Copenhagen, but then another 246 state jobs entered Copenhagen, it didn't quite work out, it was a net relocation of 9 state jobs • then we move almost 4,000 state jobs out of the capital and into cities around the country. More than 2,000 are already in place in Hjørring, Odense, Aalborg, Silkeborg, Nykøbing Falster, Ikast, Karup, Ribe, Holstebro, Skanderborg, Slagelse, Frederikshavn, Lemvig, Viborg, Randbøl and Rønne. And the rest is on their way. But it's only the first wave. Before the summer break and it doesn't start today, because as a bit of public education I can mention that the Danish Parliament is holding its final debate today, but everyone who sits here knows that it doesn't mark that the summer break has begun.The government will present a new organisation of the tax administration, where we continue to create more state jobs outside the capital. And later we will propose that even more state jobs in other areas be moved into cities around the country and moved out of Copenhagen, the capital. Because I do not want a Denmark that is divided into development and settlement. I want a Denmark in which the prosperity benefits all parts of the country. Without prosperity there is no prosperity, and without prosperity there is no prosperity. With cancer plan IV, the government invests in the fight against cancer. We put the patient in focus, strengthen both prevention, treatment and follow-up, lift the total cancer area by over 2 billion. kr. over 4 years, and we expand the capacity of our hospitals so that more people can be treated more quickly. We are also strengthening the fight against dementia, which is a people's disease that affects people, families deeply, with an action plan of 0.5 billion. kr. to create security and dignity for both patients and relatives. And completely, as we promised before the elections, we are now introducing patient doctors all over the country. We'll put the patient first. We'll strengthen the core welfare. We also do so in the area of the elderly, where we have set aside 1 billion together with the Danish People's Party. kr. extra each year for more dignified care for the elderly and a further 2 billion. kr. Until 2020. That's what we want to be able to afford. That's what we need to be able to afford. And that is what we can afford if we act wisely: safe treatment when you get sick, and safe care when you grow old. It is here, on the core welfare, that the public must deliver the goods, knowing that it will never be good enough because we must always have an ambition to do better. That is also why we have set in motion a cohesion reform to provide better services for more citizens and to ensure that the public spends resources on the right, on the core tasks; that we think less in silos and more in contexts; that we get better management, better managers; and that we set the many skilled employees more free, trust more in their professionalism and free them to do their job. That is my objective in the context of the cohesion reform, and I hope that many parties will support this effort. We must constantly make a good public sector even better, because it also contributes to progress in Denmark. At the same time, we have to clean up where it is limping. It's for SKAT. We need to have confidence that everyone will answer theirs, and that is why we are now arming up the IRS. During the previous parliamentary term from 2011 to 2015, the number of employees decreased by 1,000 years' work. Now we are adding new resources to the SKAT, almost 7 billion. DKK 1,000 more years. In addition, we are launching a commission of inquiry on which the Minister of Taxation will hold the first preliminary meeting tomorrow. Because that's the way it's supposed to be: the authorities have to sort things out. Otherwise, trust, not just for our authorities, but, in fact, for the whole model on which our society is based, will go to the whole social contract that we have established in Denmark. And that is why it is absolutely crucial that we, as elected representatives, should now take responsibility for ourselves. We should not forget the mistakes of the past. We should not do that, but first of all we must get things right now, and things can only go too slowly. We must take care of our welfare societies, we must take care of Denmark. That is why the government has a high priority in managing the influx of refugees and migrants. When I became Prime Minister, we were challenged by a refugee and migration situation, which combined with a series of relaxations under the former Social Democratic Government • put massive pressure on Denmark. But Denmark cannot be open to everyone. It will destroy our culture, our country, our cohesion, our economy. The number matters. We've managed the influx just as we promised. In the first quarter of 2017, the number of asylum seekers was the lowest since the third quarter of 2008. We have stepped up police action at asylum centres, tightened the rules on permanent residence, introduced a list of sanctions against rabid preachers, strengthened efforts to return rejected asylum seekers, introduced temporary border controls and an emergency brake which can be activated if Europe is once again broken. At the same time, in the autumn, we will address the rules for family reunification. However, if we really have to tackle the problem, we must also close the doors to Europe. We must destroy the cynical business model of traffickers, increase control of the EU's external borders, strengthen cooperation on repatriation with the countries from which the rejected asylum seekers come. It is a cooperation which must be based on a somewhat for nothing principle in which our aid depends on the countries from which migrants come taking responsibility for their own citizens and taking them back. The government is working hard to get through this in the EU. Because when we succeed in curbing the influx, we have more control over our own country, in all dimensions. We will also have more control over the economy, and then we will also have more money for action in the neighbourhood, where the money goes far, farther. Precisely because the government has managed the influx, we will be able to move 1.8 billion as it looks right now this year. kr. from the asylum area to long-term development efforts. It is money to reduce the pressure on refugees and migration in Europe, among other things. by creating more jobs in the Middle East and Africa, especially for young people, having more children in the neighbourhoods of school, giving more women and girls better access to contraception and family planning, all of which can spark the hope of a proper future in the countries from which people are currently moving. At the same time, we will create a special pool to strengthen our ability to return rejected asylum seekers. And we can do all that because we've tightened up. Denmark must be closed to those who do not want to. On the other hand, we must be open to those we really need: foreign specialists, as companies need, well-trained labour, which we may not have at the moment and which it takes years to get in place at home, that is, the type of labour that we compete with the whole world to attract, because they also contribute to progress. That is why I do not understand why a majority in this House is putting the brake on raising last year's limit in the system of amounts, so it is now DKK 408.800. against previous DKK 375,000, and by now tightening the requirements further. I'm having a really, really, really hard time understanding that. For Denmark is not getting richer by shutting out the most talented; on the contrary, we are becoming poorer, and we are not going to be. We're gonna get richer. That is why we must combat those aspects of the challenge that create poverty, for example. the fact that those who are in Denmark with a different ethnic background are, to far too little, in work. Several of the immigrants who already live here have to get out of the ghettos and into the labour market, and we have started with the integration benefit, which fortunately there is a majority in favour of it, but it is there and with a clear signal that the starting point is that you are ready for the labour market. And it's starting to work. More have come to work, and far more are reported ready for work. But we are far, far from achieving it. Work must pay off, and we want everyone who can to contribute. This is also a prerequisite for continued progress. The same is a safe society. The government won't stand for criminal gangs creating insecurity in our streets. That is why we have come up with a strong response: a biker gang package that hits rocker gang crime hard. And also thank you for your broad support for it. We have doubled the minimum penalty for illegal possession of weapons. We have presented a package of justice to provide more rights and better treatment for abused children and victims of rape. We have strengthened the police with a new political school in Jutland, which opens in 2020 Yes, we have, we have proposed a new political school in Jutland. And the government has succeeded in negotiating a special agreement on Denmark's association with Europol in place with the EU. This has been achieved because we gave a very high priority to an agreement and because I must also add that our European partners were prepared to help us. It was for me to see the best deal we could achieve and the second best solution for the police, among other things. in the fight against terror. That fight, the fight against terror, is fought on many fronts and is unfortunately not won. In December it was in Berlin, in March in London, in April in St Petersburg and Stockholm. There have also been attacks further away in Istanbul in January and in Egypt in May. And last week there was an attack in Britain, this time in Manchester, against innocent children and young people gathered in the joy of life for a concert, with many victims. These are cowardly, cowardly attacks by wretched murderers who will never win. In Denmark, we are doing our part in the fight against terrorists, and we have strengthened our response to the East. There's a call for us, and I understand that too. Every time I visit our soldiers, by December at the latest, our F-16 pilots in Turkey, our hunters in Iraq, our soldiers who train Iraqi security forces, it strikes me how committed, dedicated and super-professional men and women we have in Denmark's defence. They are doing a great job, but the threats are not decreasing, and the threats are now also moving into cyberspace. Denmark has a crucial interest in NATO being united and having the necessary military capabilities. That is why, in autumn's negotiations on a new defence settlement, the government will propose a substantial increase in our defence budgets. For peace and stability do not come on its own and are not free. And we may be more dependent than ever on our own promises and our own responsibility. One of the areas in which we have a particular interest in peace, stability and sustainable economic development is the Arctic. It is no more than a week since we had two good debates about the Kingdom Community here in the Assembly Hall. And I would like to sign both for the debates and for the cooperation we have with the North Atlantic representatives in the Folketing. We have a strong Kingdom community of three different countries, but three countries that are strongest when we stick together. I hope we can keep doing that, and I think we can. And that's one of the things we're going to discuss at this year's Kingdom Meeting on Christiansø about approx. 14 days, and I look forward to it. Both the Faroe Islands and Greenland have extensive self-determination. Virtually all important decisions are taken in Tórshavn and Nuuk respectively, and both countries still have the opportunity to take responsibility for several areas and to develop self-determination if they so wish. That's what I'm talking about. The whole thing can be said very briefly even though I know that the time is missed for it: Denmark stands strong. We have a healthy economy, low unemployment, strong companies, new jobs, influx control, prosperity throughout the country. We have far, far more opportunities than problems. But there is one problem that concerns me more than anything. Around New Year's I was in Odense, where I visited the Technology School at the University of Southern Denmark • a fantastic place where committed children and young people have big dreams. They learn about robotics, they build robots, they are taught by some of Denmark's best robotics experts, and they spend their spare time on it. It was an amazing experience that makes you optimistic. On the same day I visited Vollsmose, and I think there is such a thing in the vicinity of a neighborhood by bicycle between the School of Technology and Vollsmose, but there is a world of difference. The young people I met in Vollsmose have dreams too, but they risk tripping from the start and standing still on the platform while their peers rush by. See, it is first and foremost sad for the individual, who therefore also has a responsibility to move but it is also sad for Denmark, because in this way our country risks breaking into a winning team and a losing team. And that worries me because we can see in the rest of the world what it leads to: division, fear of the future, a desire for walls and to quit the world. And that is the last thing Denmark needs. In my New Year's speech I therefore formulated the ambition that we should make everyone in Denmark the winners of the future and especially those on the edge. We need better vocational education and training, and that is what we will have with the reform of vocational training. We're going to have better high schools, and that's what we're going to get with our high school reform. We need better universities, and we will have them, among other things. with our grant reform. We must have all this, but frankly: the many talented and strong young people will be fine. I am much more concerned about the approximately 50,000 young people between the ages of 15 and 24 who do not have an education, are in education or have a job. They are in imminent danger of being left on the platform while their friends rush to the future. I simply do not recognise the view that it is not possible to run a municipal primary school where children, as they are most, learn to read and count at an adequate level after 10 years of schooling. I don't accept the explanation that because you were born into a certain family or have an unfortunate background, the school can just give up. The same is not true of children with a foreign background, on the contrary! I am convinced that children, as they are most, can learn enough at school if they have the opportunity to do so, enough to be able to choose a life with a future after school. I've seen it. I have seen that this can be done when they are met with confidence, support and solid professional methods. Therefore, during the spring the government has presented a comprehensive strategy to support children and young people on the edge and set them free into the community. We have put forward a proposal to simplify and improve offers for young people who have the most difficulty finding their way after primary school. They need a safe hand and not a jungle of dubious offers. We have put forward a proposal on day-to-day services, which should provide a strengthened, early response for those children who need it most. And after kindergarten, the school has to follow up. The reform of primary schools is under way, but the reform is not going to have a full impact on the vintages of the oldest classes today. We need to be patient with the reform of primary school. Yes, yes, we do, but we cannot afford to be patient for our children. They only go to the ninth grade once in their lives, they can't wait. That is why we are now backing the school with a pool of 0.5 billion. kr. over 3 years to over 100 primary schools, which have many pupils with insufficient skills in the oldest classes. It is an outstretched hand for the schools that are most challenged, and an outstretched hand for the municipalities to put the focus and high goals together. Fortunately, most people have grasped it, but for some reason we are beaten by the hands of the City of Copenhagen. Here you report passports, and it is in a municipality where • teams now fast • more than half of the pupils in the schools in question get under 4 in Danish and mathematics in the 9th grade, over half! For me, it is quite incomprehensible that we should not accept the aid and, frankly, I do not think that Copenhagen can be familiar with the professionally weak pupils in the oldest classes in the schools concerned. It's a failure. We must have everyone forward into the future and especially those children and young people who have got a skewed start. We must face the future as a united country and as a group. We must meet the outside world with openness and confidence. We must have high ambitions for Denmark, strengthen progress and use it wisely. We must understand that Denmark is only Denmark because we look after each other. And we who are optimists have a special responsibility for those who do not share our bright view of the future. Denmark must not break over. This is our biggest challenge. We must remain one of the richest countries and we must bring everyone on board. This can be done, and I hope that we can make it a common cause for the entire Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531094558	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531094620	I was actually incredibly pleased that the state miner in his speech reached around the Technology School in Odense and thus the robots. Because it made me think of a satire feature on P3, which I saw a few days ago. It was about robots. Thousands of Danish jobs will be replaced by robots, it sounded, and do you know where they had started? It was in here at Christiansborg with us! It turned out to be surprisingly easy to replace us politicians with robots. Our political language had been analysed and found out that we are all saying the same thing: unfortunately, I cannot comment on that at this stage. We need more growth. We're setting up a commission. By the way, the robots had started selling DSB at an underpriced price, and then they had given themselves a wage increase. Fortunately, it was only satire, but it is true that the robots are coming. Everything changes these years, and things are moving fast. When things go fast, we should remember each other, and the most important question today is probably quite simple: how do we ensure here from Christiansborg that there will be work for everyone in the future? I think we are spending too little time on that discussion, unfortunately. As a Social Democrat, I believe that we must have a job and a right and a duty. If you can, you have to. Many of us have been brought up this way, so that everyone should be allowed to contribute to our society. After all, a future in which people are made redundant is not a common future for all of us. And we must not accept a development in which a large part of us are going backwards because of technology because it is going too fast. It is not just about the individual's opportunities, even if it is crucial enough in itself. It is also about our companies and Danish jobs. The obstacle to continued growth and development in Denmark is not the current retirement age. The obstacle to growth and development is that many Danish companies will lack skilled employees. Electricians, blacksmiths and engineers are already missing. It has to be resolved now. We have put forward a number of proposals in the form of a bottleneck, a growth initiative and an upgrading reform. We propose that it should be easier and more economically attractive to become more skilled and to get a paper in hand on the things you can, so that you can move from unskilled to skilled, that we help adults dyslexic in a better way and that we ensure a better economy for our vocational training. I know this is hard. That is not so much politically, because it is a matter of priorities. Some would like to lower the inheritance tax and spend the money on it. And then there are those of us who want to secure Danish employees and spend the money on it. So it's not the political thing that's the hard part. But I think it is difficult for many of you who are listening today, because there are a lot of adults in Denmark who have bad memories of their school hours. I can understand that. That is why we need to set up our schools and our education in a different way from today. Our school in Denmark must also fit all of you who do not come from a home where education is the most common. This is perhaps our most important task, and I hope we can work together on that here in the Danish Parliament. It is not because it is an end in itself that we have to agree with each other that we rarely do, but because we can simply create better and more sustainable solutions when a broad majority is behind the decisions. And we've done that a number of times in the parliamentary year we're about to end. I'm actually quite proud of that. Take e.g. the housing tax, where we have not only succeeded in creating security for those who own a dwelling, but also for those who rent their homes, while together we have produced a result that was both geographically and socially better. You can also take the funding of the green conversion, where you have managed to preserve the wind turbines that create jobs and make Denmark less dependent on fossil fuels. And then I have not mentioned the gang package, the North Sea agreement, the tax commission we are now setting up, the agreement on better and cheaper public transport and the taxi agreement. And I would like to thank all the parties involved in one or more of those agreements. There is no longer just a red alternative or a blue alternative. There is now a broad alternative. And that's good. Because if we want to put an end to politics, it is more of what needs to be done, that is to say, cooperation and results. I am particularly pleased that we now have a solid consensus on immigration policy in the Folketing. When people are on the run, they need help. Today we are helping many, and we must continue to do so. However, we can help even more if efforts in the neighbourhood are getting better. And if we are to ensure coherence and better integration than today, of course there is a limit to how many people can come here. It takes tough decisions, and we stand by that, even after a choice. Of course, I respect the fact that other parties are fighting for their views. But there is and must be a political gravitational law. A minority cannot impose its positions on the majority, and by the end of the autumn, we were shown that even the most stubborn eyes could not change that fact. At that time, it was about top tax relief, and we must understand that we must now get on with it again. It's a pure deja vu. Because what really has changed? The mandates are the same. That is why I have two questions. Firstly, is it really the right priority if, at a time when we do not have a lot of money but, on the other hand, a lot of big tasks, we should spend the money on top tax relief instead of on the ones we care about: our elderly, our children and those affected by disease? We must ensure a proper economy for our welfare societies, hospitals and schools. Instead, the government is now again proposing large savings, which will provide fewer social and health assistants to our elderly, and nurses must run even faster. Secondly, is it really the biggest challenge for the Danish economy that we have a society where those who earn the most also contribute a little extra? Of course it isn't. To put it bluntly and without robotic language: There is not a single unskilled person in South Jutland who becomes more skilled by giving top tax relief to those who live north of Copenhagen. The truth is that the top tax concessions are only on the agenda for the sake of the Liberal Alliance and hence the future of the government. In all respect, I would say that Denmark's future is more important. Now, over the past year, it has been possible, across the political middle, to prevent the government from pulling Denmark far too wrong; so far, so good. Of course, our ambitions are greater than that. Now is the time to draw Denmark in a fairer direction, where the differences in our society are getting smaller and where we say yes. We must say yes to a Denmark where you can master yourself in a way and at a pace that suits you and your life, a Denmark where we say yes to a tax administration and some authorities that we can trust, and where everyone must of course contribute with what they must, and yes to a Christiansborg, where all Danes can count on us politicians to spend our time working with each other and creating results for the whole of Denmark. In view of this, I would like to read out the following on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Enhedslisten, Alternativet og Socialist Folkepartiet: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that Denmark needs a different direction. We must safeguard and strengthen our welfare societies, and not gradually undermine and dismantle them. We must develop our common welfare, reduce inequality, combat poverty, ensure better help for the worn out, create a more inclusive labour market, create more jobs and internships and strengthen skills and education. The Danish Parliament notes that the growth in public consumption is 0.3 per cent. is unrealistic in relation to demographic developments and will result in a deterioration of the current service level in our day care institutions, primary schools, hospitals, elderly care etc. The Danish Parliament notes that the government has turned down Denmark's green ambitions to the detriment of climate, business and consumers alike. The Folketing instructs the government to pursue a climate policy that brings Denmark back on an ambitious path through broad political settlements, including among other things: work for that 100 per cent. of our electricity consumption would like to be covered by renewable energy by 2030. V 122).
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095641	Thank you. And this proposal is, of course, part of the further debate. Then there are a whole series of brief comments. Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095654	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for the rapporteur's speech. I stand here and am completely myself, not a robot, and I have a question on the basis of a request that the Mayor of Copenhagen this morning has brought in with him or last night. The call was to the government, but I actually think the call was also to the parties of the Danish Parliament and thus also to the mayor's own party, the Social Democratic Party. the Roma, who are touring around Copenhagen, but also in other cities, and make life insecure for many, and who are only here living a miserable life on the street to gather bottles and thus try to have a life in Denmark, which of course should not be possible. So what I really want to hear is just very low-practical: what are the Social Democrats' own thoughts about what we can do about that problem, so that we actually get it handled and thus follow the call that has come from the Mayor of Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095756	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095758	Thank you for the question. I fully share the mayor's appeal to both the government and the Danish Parliament, and I would also like to propose today that we meet quickly to discuss what we are going to do with this challenge. And the problem is that you can see when you step out of Parliament here and walk a few meters from here that Roma have taken up residence in our parks. There is noise and nuisance for other people; we have heard of blackmail of Danish homeless people. And suddenly we find ourselves in a situation where we have a street picture, which we have spent decades ensuring should not come to Denmark, where people lie and sleep on benches, on lawns, under bushes and in general disturb the public space, which must be there not only in our city picture, but also at summer festivals and other places where there are many people. So I think we should have a debate on this, too, quite quickly. After all, the police simply need to move in and help the City of Copenhagen to ensure that there is calm and stability.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095853	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095854	Thank you. I would very much like to meet, also with Mrs Mette Frederiksen, to discuss this issue. We have in fact tabled a motion for a resolution on behalf of the Danish People's Party in this session in which we proposed that we should try to make a kind of reversal of the burden of proof. We should oblige the foreigners concerned to be able to prove when they met the police whether they were legally resident in Denmark. If they could not prove it, they should be able to be administratively deported. I mean, you just had to be able to get them out of the country more quickly. We could not win a majority for that here in the Danish Parliament, but we are now many together today, and it may be that there are some who come up with other ideas. But it was certainly a contribution by the Danish People's Party to how we can do something about it in practical terms. What I am calling for today, both from the Social Democrats and, of course, from other parties, is that, when we meet, we come up with concrete proposals on what we are actually doing about it, so there is also some action behind the words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095950	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531095950-2	I think we should do two things. Firstly, at the specific level, we simply need the police to have the resources needed to break up the Roma camps and, as it were, give the parks back to the people of Copenhagen and ensure that there is peace and quiet in Christianshavns Square, around Nikolaj Church, in parks and where else the problem is. Secondly, we will have to raise this at European level, because there is something wrong with European rules. Freedom of movement must be used to find work and to train, not to move around begging, not to move around and to relate to those who may commit crime. So there must be two stages: 1) in which we are now actually moving into Copenhagen and ensuring that peace and quiet are restored, and 2) in which we have to challenge EU rules in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100038	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100042	Thank you for that and thank you very much to Mrs Mette Frederiksen for the rapporteur's speech. Mrs Mette Frederiksen starts by talking about this with the fact that there must be jobs for everyone and that we must go into the future and make sure that we all have something to do and also mention one of the prerequisites for it, that is to say, that whoever has the ability also has the duty. If you can, you have to. One of the areas where the government, with some success, has to be said, is trying to get people into work, after all, with the benefits of integration, in which we say that it should act as a motivation to go out and take a job. We can see that there is a much greater proportion of the refugees coming to Denmark who come to work after this introduction. Social democracy did not vote in favour of the adoption of the integration benefit, so I just want to hear: are these results not something that calls for some reflection by Mrs Mette Frederiksen and perhaps a desire to think that it might not be so stupid again?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100142	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100144	I would like to say a few things about the benefits of integration. First of all, we were very much in the middle of negotiations, including with the Left Party, in this area. We have one particular concern in this area, and it is the children, that is, how we ensure that children who grow up in Denmark have good conditions of upbringing, no matter where their parents might come from. So I still believe that there is an outstanding and a challenge to the children's part, and I would very much like to discuss this further with the government if we can find a solution to that. I also think it is important to say that, as so many people have come to Denmark from outside, and as we continue to face a major migrant and refugee crisis, the idea that you have to be here for a period of time before you can access everything has become increasingly important. We have a retirement pension. We adopted this back in the 1980s, in, I think, a unanimous Parliament. We have now taken some steps, including in relation to the children's check, and it may be appropriate to discuss other issues as well. For it is clear that we must be able to finance our welfare societies, and it is important that everyone contributes when they come here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100255	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100257	Thank you. After all, I am an optimist of mind, so I see an opening in relation to the recognition that this is not so wrong again, and I would like to sign for that too. I think that the best thing you can do for these children is to ensure that the parents of these children have a job. A job is the best you can have. The very best thing you can get in the world is a job. So now that this encourages people to get to work, I think it's a very good idea. So I just want to say that is it still the policy of the Social Democratic Party to roll back the benefits of integration, should one gain power as one has observed? Sorry, my time's up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100335	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100337	I will repeat what I have had the opportunity to say at other times in this Chamber, namely that we do not make a lot of promises until we know what we have to do well with. When we talk specifically about the integration service, of course we have an ongoing assessment of what level of performance should be in Denmark when you get here. We have to look into each other's eyes, including here in the Folketing, and see that too many people with ethnic minority backgrounds are not on the labour market, and we have too many who have spent decades in Denmark on cash benefits without the opportunity to contribute to society and without giving their children the most important thing: that mother and father go to work in the morning. We must continue this discussion, and now my time has elapsed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100422	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100424	Thank you. One of the things we have been discussing a lot recently is the tax area. For years the savings have been raining down on the Danish tax administration, and now we are really starting to see the consequences of this by starting to streamline and remove the money and harvest before you actually sow it. It is quite violent, and fortunately we agree that it has been disastrous in the area of taxation. Nevertheless, it is now the Social Democrats who are blocking the removal of a mechanism in the field of health, which is very similar to that, i.e. this 2-percent productivity requirement, which, year after year, hacks 2%. and make the nurses run at 2%. It is also important for the Commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the Community's financial resources are used more quickly, without really having any basis for knowing that these improvements are being made. This is something that we hear some terrible stories about the consequences of. I think what Mrs Mette Frederiksen said just now was that the government wants the nurses to run even faster. This is actually something that is happening with the voices of the Social Democrats right now. It is the Social Democratic Party that prevents us from abolishing the productivity requirement. Why is it that it does not work in the area of taxation, but that it obviously still works in the field of health?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100539	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100543	Thank you for the question and, above all, thank you for bringing health care and our health system into the discussion. I am not in favour of continuing to have a 2-percent efficiency requirement as we know it today. We have made this clear both in this Chamber and outside the Chamber. But, of course, we must be allowed to think about what we are putting in place, and I think it is important here all the time to find the right balance between having confidence in our employees, for example. out on the individual hospital walks, has the professional skills needed to make the right choices and make the right priorities, while, of course, it is just as important that we keep in mind and focus on how we can do things better and how we can do things better. May I just give an example: I saw at some point an overview of how many hours a day scanners in Danish hospitals are in progress. In some places, they're running pretty much 24 hours a day. You organize the work, and you get the patients in, so you spend all the scanning time there is. In other places they run for less time, which means that there is a waiting time for those patients who need a scan. This is a good example of how things can be done more wisely here. However, a 2-percent requirement that applies everywhere, including on feeding grounds, is not what we need in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100658	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100702	I think it is a little strange, because there are plenty of control mechanisms beyond the 2-percent requirement. Well, there are patient rights and monitoring and budgets and everything else. So there are plenty of control mechanisms, even if you remove the 2-percent requirement now. I think Mrs Mette Frederiksen has also heard the stories for patients who do not receive proper guidance and new parents who are sent home a few hours after birth. It's really violent. Once again, I have to say that it is the Social Democracy which gives the government the majority to continue to do so. We have just had a proposal in Parliament to abolish the 2-percent rule, and the Danish People's Party actually voted in favour. It is the Social Democratic Party that is now holding hands under the government's annual savings. Why is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100747	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100748	But one could not also turn it around and say: now there is actually a majority in favour of abolishing the 2-percent rule, as we know it today. That is an incredibly great step forward. Let us then spend some time, and that is not because we need to spend a long time on what I am not talking about many years of investigation because I think that if we sit down, think about and listen, also to those who have much greater knowledge of health than the two of us who are discussing it right now, we will find a way, I think, not to control, but to manage our health care, a wiser way. And then we can get it adopted and make it apply in the future. So I think what's important is getting the patient into the center. Some of the control mechanisms currently in place are simply obsolete and therefore we also want to replace them with something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100834	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100838	Thank you. Thank you from here too for Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech as rapporteur. I would really like to return to the question of integration, which Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also asked questions about. The rapporteur replied that the question of whether to put an end to the benefits of integration or to change it should be given power after elections in the future is an ongoing assessment. It is, of course, very good that pro and contra are constantly assessed on all possible issues. I think we all do. But my question is really: what is the conclusion of that assessment? Will a government led by Mrs Mette Frederiksen abolish the benefits of integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100918	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531100920	It's kind of a funny questioning technique. It is recognised that it is good that things are being assessed, but would like the conclusion to be drawn. It is usually the case that when you are in the process of assessing, you are not ready with the conclusion. And that is the conclusion of the question. Having said that, I think it is important, when we talk about the benefits of integration, that there are more things to take into account. There is one consideration to take into account the robustness of the Danish economy when many people come here. The idea that you can't just get access to everything overnight, I understand. That is also why, when they come here, refugees are on a food package scheme and live in our asylum system. They are not entitled to cash benefits. That's why we have a fraction pension on the retirement pension. It has been in force for quite many decades. But there is also consideration for some children. No matter what we think of benefits, I hope that we can reach across the political parties where we say that children should not pay for their parents' life situation. If we want to have social mobility and equal opportunities in this society, it must be a political task to ensure that all children have proper growing conditions. I would like to be sure of that regardless of what benefits we are talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101034	Thank you. There is a beginning of unrest in the Chamber, and I would like to ask for it to be stopped. Here you go, Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101040	I fully agree that there is, of course, a concern for children. It is there for all children, including those who come here with their parents as refugees. The integration benefit has been effective for some time, and now we can see that the effect is actually that more of the parents are going to work, and I think that is the main consideration that can be given to those children, namely that they grow up with a mother and a father who goes to work and becomes part of the society and the country to which they have come. Respect for the fact that it will still be assessed, but when can we expect a conclusion on that assessment? That is my question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101116	Thank you. And here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101119	There is the answer the same as that given in many other contexts: it must of course be given well away from the next parliamentary elections. Can't I say anything else? I agree with what the questioner says, namely that the most important thing we can support at all by the Folketing when a refugee family comes to Denmark is not just that father gets a job, but that mother gets a job, so that we can also break the trends that are in some of our minority groups, with social control, and that we ensure that those who come here contribute to Danish society instead of the opposite. And, of course, my basic position on benefits as a social democrat is right and duty. You have to contribute and you have some rights.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101201	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101207	Yes, thank you. First of all, I would like to correct a slight misunderstanding from Mrs Mette Frederiksen's speech. There is not only a red, a blue and a broad alternative, there is also a green alternative, and I would just like to remind Mrs Mette Frederiksen of that. What I would like to ask is actually entrepreneurship, because we know that if we are to create jobs for the future, it must not be large jobs, but small and medium-sized jobs, and that is why we need to get new businesses going. So I would like to know whether the Social Democratic Party has any good ideas on this, because from the alternative we would like to see perhaps looking at the whole educational system, in other words how we can loosen some of the ties that lie in the progress reform, so that young people, even when they are students, can start to create businesses. Are these ideas which the Social Democratic Party could also imagine one could look at?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101255	Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101258	I actually think it is the case that when you are a student of higher education in Denmark, you have quite a lot of time to get wild ideas too, and I just think that the young people should throw themselves at that, and gladly even more of it. I would say that what I hear when I move around in the business world is one thing in particular: when you get the good idea, it can be really difficult to realise it, because it is still unfortunately difficult to access risk capital. This is the phase I think we should be concerned with supporting from Christiansborg, because from the idea has been developed and refined to get production going, you need someone who wants to borrow some money unless you bring a lot of things from home, but most people don't have it. So I think that access to risk capital is probably one of the most important things, and we could point out our proposal to extend the scope of the Growth Fund to provide direct support. A good example of a company that received support at the end of the Growth Fund is Universal Robots • Now it is not because we have to talk robots all day • which is an excellent Danish company and which is also located on Funen. It has subsequently been sold, but it is a very, very strong Danish company with lots of jobs. They could not get support, but eventually got it from the Growth Fund and got a breakthrough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101416	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101422	Now I can tell you that what I hear from the educational institutions' various offices for entrepreneurship, etc., is that it has indeed been important that we push students through more quickly so that there is no time to start up the good ideas. But when we talk about financing, it is also necessary to look at forms other than equal Growth Fund. So, how can we get some of the money that is going to work, such as the large pension funds that lie there? How can you do something like that, but also in relation to the whole crowdfunding part? Is this also something that the Social Democratic Party will help to look at, in other words how we can get the money we already have in society to benefit the future business community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101455	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101456	I think that is an exciting discussion. Can I not say in relation to universities that what we have been focusing on in this Chamber is to ensure that young people take their education on a regulated time. I do not think that is an unreasonable requirement. I think it is important to maintain that most people who study higher education in Denmark are quite resourceful young people. To have the expectation that they will carry out their study at the standard time, just as adults do their work at the standard time, I do not think that is unreasonable. Well, that was the answer to that, and I would very much like to share in discussing the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101534	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101537	I can, of course, continue a little along those lines, because it may well be that you can see some things that separate us, but some of the things that usually unite us and have done so historically have actually been the ambition that the next generation has always had to be better educated than their parents. That is why, when we were in government, we invested heavily in education. More and more young people were admitted, and that has been a common thread. That is why it has of course puzzled us a little along the way since the parliamentary elections, how it could be that the Social Democrats agreed to finance a police settlement with green harvesting savings or an allowance agreement with an education ceiling. But we have recently seen here that it may be because it is such an ideological shift. I understand from some of the young strong ideologists in the Social Democratic Party that it is because the more education you have, the more you live on shame. Well, this is the whole thing with the tyranny of the scholars. And I'm thinking of sir. Kaare Dybvad, who has written and I quote: It is cynical to keep throwing educational funds at the creative class. So, of course, I think that makes more sense, but is it really the view of the social democracy today that we must now have a ceiling so that the next generation will not be better educated than their parents?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101657	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101701	Surely nobody is talking about setting a ceiling, but there is a Socialist who raises a completely reasonable discussion of how we spend the funds on education in Denmark. That's a fair discussion. And now it may be that I go a little straight to it, but the fact is that there are up to a million adult Danes who find it difficult to read and write and calculate. How often do we prioritise them in the educational discussion? All of us who have visited many high schools and many vocational training programmes know very well that over time the money has been given priority in the direction of secondary schools and not vocational training. We know that. We know that we have spent a great deal of money on higher education and not always remembered the unskilled. The basic discussion is that we give proper priority to our means of education, knowing that there are some who have a great need that is not being met? I would like everyone in Denmark to realise their potential. I think it is wonderful when the model wrestler, who comes from a family where there has never been an education, suddenly stands with a student hat on its head or in the hand. But my dream is just as much that all those who never got the opportunity will get it in the future, and my dream is that he who is today on the Danish labour market without reading will get the gift that it is to be able to read so that he can also be on the labour market in 15 years' time. I think we need to take that priority discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101824	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101828	This is of course extremely interesting, because the policy pursued in the field of education during the period that has now passed since the parliamentary elections has not been such that priority should now be given to the education system. It has been a downgrade because the money has had to be spent on something else that the Social Democratic Party has also wanted, namely more police officers. This means that all vocational education and training institutions in Denmark are now planning savings and any high school, any hf-- based directly on the police settlement. That is why it sounds hollow, and that leads back to the disagreement there is: is it about creating the basis for us to invest more in education so that, in all the places where it is not good enough today, it can get better, or is it the position of the Social Democratic Party that, in order to do so, we need to take some of the places where it might be good today and cut down so that it can be better elsewhere? Is this a zero-sum game, where ceilings must now be built and demolished, instead of finding a common basis for investing more?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101924	I appeal for speaking time to be respected. It will be a long day, and we must respect each other by respecting the speaking time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531101932	Perhaps we should divide things up, and perhaps the question should really be addressed to someone other than the woman who stands on the platform now, because the green harvester saving that the government has introduced on all our educations, with the exception of vocational training, because we had it prevented the first year of the school, which we did when we made the agreement on the Danish police, we do not support. I think it is wrong for the government to cut down on education so much, just as I think it is wrong when you come up with a proposal for the most vulnerable and vulnerable young people and say: Now there are more of them who can go out and do unskilled work instead of receiving an upper secondary education or when you want to centralise the offers to the most vulnerable young people. The disagreement I think we have in common.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102017	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102030	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. Historically, SF and Social Democracy have always fought together for better education. It is both better professional education and it is also better higher education. I hope that we can continue to do so and that we are careful not to make it a fight against each other. I am sure you can find the money elsewhere to raise education in general. I was also quite pleased when the rapporteur said that the Social Democrats will be fighting for people to be able to improve their skills in a way and at a pace that suits them. I think that is a very good way to look at education. But I also think it is rather hollow in relation to the educational ceiling that the Social Democratic Party has helped to create. In these days, a lot of students drop out of their degree programmes... bioanalysts and nurses drop out because they're afraid they can't become doctors. We have asked the Ministry how many they estimate dropouts just before they have to take their exams, because they are afraid to be hit by the training ceiling, and the Ministry estimates that it is up to 400 • 340 think I am the concrete figure. I think that the good thing about education is that you take a step towards completion and then you can look at whether you have to improve your skills, at the pace that suits you, and become wiser, and I think that the ceiling on education is an obstacle to that. That is why I would like to ask: does the Social Democratic Party still think that the educational ceiling is a good idea?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102139	What's interesting in this discussion is that many of us are happy with the words that are being said about the historical cooperation between us and SF and us and the Radicals want to spend more money on education. But I know that none of our parties will ask the most worn-out in Denmark to work longer so that there are some who can get an education unless you are in favour of later withdrawal, as the Radicals are what we are not. Nor do I think the SF can promise that we can make an educational boost for everyone in this society without any restrictions even this year one. We are also going to make priorities, we are going to do so, and we might as well be honest and say so. What I am appealing to is that we start in the right place, that we start with those who have the least education in the account. Because in all respect, if you're a trained nurse, you actually have a really good education. Not only do you have a good education for yourself, but you also have an education where you are sure that you can get work here and probably also in many other countries. But it is something else for the unskilled who are standing down at Lolland and can see that Vestas is about to hire new employees, and the prerequisite for getting in there and getting that job is that you can read. My only appeal is that this time we should give priority to where the need is greatest. We have not tried this before in education policy in Denmark. I think it would suit us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102301	Thank you. Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102304	But what I think is so wrong with the educational ceiling is that it is a fundamental breach of the thinking that Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself said about being able to do his whole life. I don't believe that the educational ceiling only hits the academics. We can see that it doesn't. I basically believe that the educational ceiling helps to create a fundamental doubt among all students in this country because you have to choose correctly for the first time. So I think it is a breach of decades of educational thinking, which is a real shame. What you can see now is that the positive list that would allow you to get into training that the labour market demanded teacher training, which we will need in the future, nursing training, engineers, people who will read software has not been expanded. You can't read these things, even if the labour market wants them. There are so many gaps in this educational ceiling. That is not a lot of money, so could it not be imagined that the Social Democrats will in future be involved in abolishing the ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102357	I would like to say two things. First of all, you can always train up. What we are talking about is that we should not be allowed to take two full courses from one day to the next. That's what we're talking about. And may I not just remind you of the fact that I know that we do not dwell much on the history of the Parliamentary Chamber or in the public conversation at all why it was that that discussion was raised at all. It was because thousands of Danish employees, unskilled and skilled workers, got out of the benefit system because we were unable to secure a proper solution in the area of unemployment benefits in the past. We could only sit down at a negotiating table and, unfortunately, make sure that there had been a change of government and that agreement had to be financed. I just think it is important to remind each other that what was our task, and it is thus still our task, is to ensure that there are also some who look after those who are affected by unemployment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102457	Thank you. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102504	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. There is something that worries me very much and that we are very concerned about in the Conservative People's Party, and that is the backbone of the Danish business community, namely the family-owned companies. There are 23,000 family-owned companies facing a generational change. In the 23,000 small and medium-sized enterprises there are 300,000 Danish jobs. I understand, then, that if the Social Democracy gains power after a forthcoming election, they will impose a higher tax on the generational changer. Is Mrs Mette Frederiksen not concerned that the competitiveness of the companies and thus Danish jobs could be affected?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102538	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102541	I think it is very important to note, at the same time as the discussion, that we want to tax-free those companies that want to switch to being a business fund if they are to continue their business in Denmark. After all, we have a strong Danish business community, and it is both because of the family-owned companies, but it is not least thanks to the many, many strong business companies that are founded in foundations. This is a matter of priority: do we want to make it directly easier for heirs, or do we want to make it directly easier for companies to stay in Denmark? So that's where we pick the last one.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102621	Sir. Anders Johansson.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102624	So Mrs Mette Frederiksen is not interested in working on a model in which more is avoided, for example. are foreign capital funds to take over these companies in connection with a generational change? Why does the Social Democrats not want to make it attractive to maintain these family businesses? It is often small and medium-sized enterprises which play a major role in small local communities and which engage in local communities around them, perhaps especially in the outermost regions. Could Mrs Mette Frederiksen not say a few words about why it would rather be foreign funds to take over those companies in connection with a generational change?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102658	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102702	It went just as well, and there were 22 seconds, I think, quickly calculated, with which I very much agreed, namely that many family-run companies in Denmark are incredibly important. They are for Danish exports. They are for the Danish business community, and they are also for the local community. You feel it when you get there. They are well anchored. They look after their employees and they are an important key player in securing enough jobs. The answer, however, that they should be transferred to a foreign capital fund is not, of course, that the inheritance tax should be relieved. On the contrary, it is to be ensured that they are exempt from tax if they want to be a business fund and keep production in Denmark. So we don't disagree that they should stay here. Nor do we disagree, I think, with the Conservatives in a deep gratitude on our part that they are still here and that many of them also want to stay. It's just a question of how we spend the money best.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102749	Thank you. And then it's sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102759	Thank you for a fine talk with the message of cooperation. That's good. We can agree on that. Cooperation is also needed in the matter, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl spoke and asked Mrs Mette Frederiksen about Roma in the major Danish cities, among others. Copenhagen. There is no doubt that this is a huge challenge for those who come to Copenhagen and those who live here. Unfortunately, the Roma do not contribute anything positive at all. We in the DF have put forward a proposal for which we could not get a majority in favour, in the Folketing in this area where we want to reverse the burden of proof, so that it is not the police who, on the spot where the Roma are, have to establish whether they are legally or illegally resident, but it is the individual Roma who has to prove that they are legally resident themselves. I would like to know whether the Socialists, in the cooperation that needs to be established now, in the effort to throw the Roma out of Copenhagen and the other cities, will now be positive about that proposal. We have not succeeded in obtaining a majority until now for the Danish People's Party, but we could hope that this debate will succeed so that we can make an effort to throw them out of, among other things. Copenhagen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102909	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531102913	I would very much like to take part in discussing very specific proposals as well, because it is unsustainable. It is untenable in Copenhagen, but it is also untenable in the rest of Europe. It is not just a Danish phenomenon; it is something that has spread. And we have to say that if we do not get something done about this, then it is the whole idea of free movement that will be at stake at some point. Because I don't want to open up our Copenhagen or our country to people who don't have an errand here. And in this way it is also a pity for those concerned, we should remember. They live bad lives when they're lying there on the bench begging for food and going and collecting bottles. That is not the idea of the free movement of workers. That is not the Europe we want. I do not think that we are going to avoid amending the Residence Directive. I believe that we should be fully involved in the residence directive and that we should not just be able to travel around and that the directive should ensure that people have money in their pockets and in their hands and that they have a residence when they move from one country to another. So I think that we are going to challenge EU rules in this area, and I think that we should start with that and preferably from a united Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103019	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103023	Yes, we are, of course, very much in favour of amending the Residence Directive. Perhaps in parentheses one can then say that it is probably a long process. We have tried this before in different contexts, where it was very, very difficult. We need to get into the EU system. No, what we believe in in the Danish People's Party is that we have to find an arrangement now and here, which comes to the rescue of the cities and also the police, who have the task of seeing all these problems and helping the citizens. We need to help the police and the authorities with a solution now and here. That is why we call on the Socialists to really pull out their clothes and say that all right, we will also take some of the proposals we previously rejected and implement them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103109	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103113	Let us start discussing how we do it in concrete terms and what we can do in the short term and what we can do in the long term. I'm very happy. I was about to say that this is not the first time that I have experienced it in relation to DF's attitude. Now I just saw very briefly before I entered and I hope it is a mistake to say that the Left said that it was Copenhagen's problem and that now the City of Copenhagen had to pull itself together in this area. That's not fair. We hear about employees who have to be vaccinated against infectious hepatitis because they have to remove leftovers from homeless Roma, and then they claim that it is the City of Copenhagen that has a problem. It is, of course, a responsibility for Parliament and for government and the City of Copenhagen, and I think that we should resolve it together. It'll suit us best.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103153	Sir. Jakob Engell-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103155	Thank you. I am afraid that Mrs Mette Frederiksen misquoted my good colleague, Mr Mette Frederiksen. Marcus Knuth, but I am sure the rapporteur himself will come back to that. I want to ask you something else. I actually admire Mrs Mette Frederiksen for when she speaks that she arouses feelings in people. Earlier this year I found myself on the rooftop when I saw the Social Democratic President speaking at the SF's national meeting. I could understand that the message was that inequality is a battle where fence posts need to be moved. It sounded very interesting until I delved a little into how it had gone with the inequality under the now former Socialist Government. That is why I would like to ask two questions. What does the Socialist President think is going to happen in this area? These are, of course, the most important questions of the time, I understand that they are quoted. And can the Socialist President tell us how inequality has developed under the former Red Government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103251	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103256	Thank you for the question. I think the worst thing you can do when discussing inequality is to focus only on one element of our society. Let me give you an example. We made an agreement on the North Sea. There are, of course, parties against it. I think the parties in question have done so every time an agreement has been reached on North Sea oil. If you look at it in isolation, some will ask why you have to make an agreement that supports Mærsk and others who extract oil in the North Sea. We are doing this because, if we do not do this, we risk putting thousands of jobs on the line. Then Esbjerg, part of the west coast of Jutland, will be in the position of hundreds of families that father may lose his job. For some, maybe Mom too, but probably in most cases Dad. That is why it may well be right for business policy and sometimes tax policy to do something that, in isolation, can increase inequality in order to safeguard jobs. It's the same way as when you're doing cash benefits reform. Then it may be right to put some strong young people into service, so that they get into the education system and then get a job. So I just want to appeal to us to move together away from that very rigid view of inequality and instead relate to the whole of society. Because it is about creating more opportunities and, above all, employment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103418	A robot can adjust exactly to speak half a minute or half a minute. I'm not sure you can quite do it with members of parliament, but if we practice, it might be possible. Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103428	I would simply like to note something as surprising as that I think that what Mrs Mette Frederiksen has just said from the platform was both incredibly sensible and correct. I am extremely pleased about this, and I just hope that, if the parliamentary situation changes, we will remember what has just been said. Because you just can't see things so square. I would have said that the former Socialist Government increased the Gini coefficient by 0.58, and that must of course be a pity for a Socialist President, but I will not go into that too much and then just say that I think what was said was very, very sensible. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103500	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103505	Oh, that's so good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103509	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103515	In fact, it is a bit of a follow-up to what Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt asked questions about. When the Social Democratic Party was last in government, the top tax limit was raised; transfer income was reduced because they began to be regulated in inflation; corporation tax was reduced and it was financed with lower public spending; it was thought that 12 billion could be released. kr. In the public sector, therefore, by making efficiency more effective, it was beyond the requirement of productivity. This was thought to be right at the time, and now Mrs Mette Frederiksen is saying that we should not have such a rigid view of inequality, and I agree with that, but when this government wants to tackle some of the same tools, it is called tax relief to the richest in northern Zealand, and one resorts to such a, I think, very strange rhetoric. But it is exactly the same thing, namely to increase prosperity in Denmark, because it is in this way both the prerequisite for welfare and for citizens to live good lives, that we are a prosperous society. That is why I think it is regrettable that Mrs Mette Frederiksen's talk about fighting the politician's lead is that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is using such a rhetoric about the same political tools that Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself has used and voted in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103630	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103634	I think that one of the challenges when you read economic theory is that it is certainly not all economists who have incorporated into their thinking that societies change and that there is a difference between what tools you have to use, depending on what task you have to solve. What is the challenge we are facing in Denmark right now? I believe that, as far as our economy is concerned, and hence our economic policy, the main challenge is the shortage of labour. It's not the treasure. That is not the biggest challenge facing companies. The biggest challenge is • and unfortunately it is not even in 2, 5 or 10 years' time • lack of labour. It is blacksmiths, electricians, industrial operators and engineers who are missing, and it is now. That is why, if we do not channel part of the labour force over there, we risk in fact putting a damper on the growth that is quite positive in this respect. That doesn't solve a top tax relief. So what I am appealing to is that when you face a specific challenge, you use the tool in the toolbox that is the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103738	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103742	Mrs Mette Frederiksen makes the right diagnosis and says that there is a shortage of labour, and then Mrs Mette Frederiksen grabs all the tools that seem worse. Is raising the ceiling for top tax crown by crown the tax policy tool that increases employment the most that provides the most labour? Mrs Mette Frederiksen will not be involved in labour supply reforms, although Mrs Mette Frederiksen herself says that the greatest challenge is labour shortages. Instead, Mrs Mette Frederiksen and her party are presenting a growth plan which reduces employment by 200. I am sorry, but it is not a serious policy and it creates politicians when you come up with proposals that do not work and criticise others' proposals that work and that you use when you are in government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103833	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103837	This is a good thing, because now we are really getting to the heart of the real political disagreement. Because what are we saying? We say that when there is a shortage of labour, both on the short and on the longer track, let us train the Danes. Let us then say to those who are outside the labour market today: you are allowed to equip yourself so that there is a job in the future. We say to him the unskilled in South Jutland: You must have the opportunity to become skilled so that you can get one of the jobs that comes in Esbjerg after the conclusion of the North Sea Agreement, or whatever it may be. That's what we're saying. What the Liberal Alliance is up to is to spend the money on the few rather than spend it on the many and thus raise the whole of society. I think that is the wrong medicine and, by the way, I disagree politically with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103921	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531103923	Thank you. The rapporteur said in an answer to Mr McMillan-Scott's question. Jacob Mark says she won't ask the unskilled to work anymore, but that's what she's doing with her party. After all, social democracy is part of a settlement which means that the retirement age must be continually increased. The next time this happens will be in three years' time by 2020, when the Socialists will vote in favour of raising it to 69 years for those born in 1970. After all, the settlement also means that someone who is 30 years old today can only retire when he is 721⁄2 years old. So what the rapporteur is trying to draw a picture of is not true. My question is: is it fair to the many people who enter the labour market at an early age? Is that fair for the 20%? by the members of the LO and the FTF, who clearly say they can't stand to work this long? Is that fair and what is the Social Democratic response to those people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104023	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104025	But there are two discussions in this. One is that the Danish Parliament, fortunately in a broad constellation, looked back in 2006 beyond the next many years and could observe that fortunately we are getting our standard of living up so much that our average life expectancy will also increase, and when it continues that way, and we continue to have the expenses we have, there will eventually be a really big hole, what many also call a hammock problem position. That's why we made a broad agreement back in 2006. As we live longer, we will also work longer with a long phase-in and therefore also with respect for people being able to adjust to changing conditions. Then we will have a new bourgeois government, unfortunately with the backing of the Radical Left. From one day to the next, those who are close to retirement must also suddenly work more. I don't think that was fair. We do not think this is fair, and fortunately we have managed to block it across the political spectrum. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104128	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104131	So I have to ask again: what does this long explanation help those people who cannot manage to work as long as the Social Democrats themselves are involved in demanding people to work? 20% members of the LO state that they need to take painkillers to get through the working day. Mrs Mette Frederiksen must admit that she actually demands of the unskilled, that they have to work longer, and then it is reasonable that we should give an answer to the people in terms of what solutions we have for them. I haven't heard of that yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104207	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104208	Of course, I stand by the agreements we have made and would also urge that we maintain the rather fine old tradition, that when an agreement has been reached, you stand by it. A word is a word. The questioner is right, then, that there is a group, even with the current pension rules that are worn out, and that is why we as a party were opposed to the deterioration of the early retirement scheme. I think that in many ways was contrary to the agreement we made on pensions, so that a majority was then another majority did so at some point. However, the questioner is right to say that today, with the current rules, there are some who are worn out and who cannot work anymore, at least not in the function in which they have been used to working, and of course we need to find a solution to look after them properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104256	So I would like to thank Mrs Mette Frederiksen for the hard work of the last hour and to welcome Mr Mette Frederiksen. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531104315	Thank you to the Prime Minister for an incredibly cozy trip out to Circusrevyen last Thursday. The Prime Minister and I had the pleasure of being at the premiere of this year's Circusrevy out in the tent at Bakken, and it was as if a question grew up between us about whether we should be disappointed or happy when we sat and attended the Circusrevyen. I don't know if I'm giving too much to those who are now going to see the Circusrevyen here during the good season, but we had it so that we had to find a grimass that could fit because we weren't parodied this year. And then we agreed that it was probably because we had both flown quite low in politics during the parliamentary year. So there wasn't really anything to joke about. There was nothing to come for. Well, I hear the PM says. On the other hand, the Liberal Alliance was parodied richly. Sir. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll sat a few rows from me, and one could at least hear him in the whole tent. He was very pleased, and in a way it was the right way to take it. And somewhere I could also see the sense in the fact that it was the Liberal Alliance that was parodied in Circusrevyen this year, because it might very well reflect the parliamentary year we are going out of now so formally. The Prime Minister is right that it may not be quite summer vacation yet, but formally we have a final debate. The parliamentary year also includes last autumn, when it was the Liberal Alliance, which one can say so much set the agenda. One can then discuss the extent to which their policy was implemented, but they set the agenda for the discussion on top tax. So I guess it was reasonable and telling for the parliamentary year that it was the Liberal Alliance that was parodied. I believe that almost everyone from the parliamentary group was parodied up there on stage in Circusrevyen. At the beginning of my speech, I should also like to thank Mrs Mette Frederiksen for a very good trip to the Circus building. There we were on stage, but it wasn't a parody. It was the sanctimonious reality. It wasn't about robots either. It was, in fact, with the honest truth of a concern in relation to what was also included in the last question to Mrs Mette Frederiksen here a moment ago, namely the worn out, the employees in Denmark who may not be driving as far on the gallon. I think the government would say that the government wants the public sector to, i.e. those people who actually need a helping hand. It was a good experience in the sense that it also set an agenda, but indeed an agenda that actually had impact, even to an extent, so it had effect, I had almost said, even the day before we met in the Circus building. I'll be back there with a thank you to the Prime Minister. In addition to thanking the Prime Minister for the speech he actually gave today, I think there were many good elements in that speech, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for having drawn the proposal to increase the retirement age further. Because we know that there are many people I mentioned before who are worn out and actually need to be able to look forward to a retirement age where they can get away from the labour market. But we also know that there is social inequality in relation to retirement age. There are some who have many good years in retirement, and unfortunately there are many who do not have many good years. And it is clear that it is those who would be particularly affected if the retirement age were raised further. That is why I think it makes sense for us to have it taken off the table and now to focus on what the government also chose to focus on yesterday with its proposals, namely how we can now motivate more seniors to stay longer in the labour market. Because there is no doubt that there are quite a lot of seniors who actually want to stay in the labour market and also have health for it. The Elders case was out a few years ago with a message that a third of those who had retired or retired would actually have liked to have stuck around. I think that part of the focus here is whether they feel in demand, whether they actually feel appreciated in the labour market. And that is why this is also about a prayer to the companies that they actually demand the seniors that they want to be. Then there are many of those who would actually like to, and we would certainly like to enter into political cooperation to find out how we can motivate more people to stay, so that they can also feel that they are getting a handful from the Folketing. We are also looking forward to the negotiations over the next few weeks on the issue of how it should be worth saving, which was also put on the table yesterday, and this is the kind of mantra that should actually be applied. However, we know that there are some problems in our current pension system, and we must have a look at that. The parliamentary year, when we look back, was also the year when we again got the focus on the costs of immigration to Danish society. We think it's a good thing we've been re-established after a few years, when it was a little off the table. The Ministry of Finance came up with its assessment a few months ago... it was well that non-Western immigration to Denmark was burdening the public funds with 33 billion. kr. annual. It was specifically a statement from 2014, it was about here. This is an alarming figure, and it shows how important it has been to tighten up the rules, so that there will be fewer people in Denmark, especially through the asylum system and the family reunification system, because it is here that non-western immigration to Denmark has really been settled. It costs money, in addition to giving all the value conflicts we can also see in Danish society. That also brings a little relief to what we discussed yesterday. Well, the government has put forward a 2025 plan. Until 2025, we are talking about 35 billion. kr. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. kr. And then we are talking about non-Western immigration to Denmark, which is burdening the public purses with 33 billion. kr. It's thought-provoking. So we must keep the number of asylum seekers to Denmark down to a very low level. We must continue to do so and, as the Prime Minister also mentioned in his speech, it will have the side effect that there is a greater proportion of the money actually devoted to development aid, which we have spent more and more on home for some years now to the refugees and migrants who have come to Denmark, which we can spend in the neighbourhood. And frankly, that's a much better way to spend that money. It helps many more people in need. That is why it is a sunshine story that we can now discuss how we can return or at least spend more money in the vicinity. 1,7-1,8 billion kr. the government is talking about is the figure for this year. The reason we have to hold on here, we saw in TV 2's documentary about a year ago, the mosques behind the veil. You could make a similar documentary today if you would unfortunately. It just shows that this is a year's work that requires us to stick to it. We need strict rules and we need border controls. We must also preserve it and develop it, but we are up against a European Commission which talks about the removal of border controls over the next six months. That's not gonna work. We must not remove border controls, it must remain there. It is an illusion to believe that external borders will ever be safe. At a time when we are witnessing terror in our vicinity, most recently in Manchester, at a concert that we all know about, and when children and young people were killed while parents were holding and waiting out front and never got their young people back to the family again, we know that we must ensure the Danes that we have to do everything we can to secure the Danes, including border control, one of the means. This brings me straight to the fact that there is something that needs to be addressed at all in relation to the European Union. Brexit should, of course, have been the eye-opener that ensured a different balance between what the nation states are dealing with on the one hand and what the EU is dealing with on the other, but this suggests that there are strong forces in the European Union that are just trying to make the EU decide even more. We must, of course, oppose this. We must also oppose the tendency to punish the British because they want to withdraw from the European Union. There must be a proper agreement that safeguards both our interests and the interests of the British, and that should be possible. Finally, I would like to look forward to an autumn in which we will also have good political debates. There is also a debate on the public sector in what the government brought in yesterday. It is crucial for us in the Danish People's Party that there are the necessary resources to secure our hospitals, to ensure our elderly. There are increasing numbers of elderly people, and thank God for that, but there will also be more elderly people over 80 years of age and more demented, among other things, which requires proper resources in the care of the elderly to give them proper and dignified treatment. We're gonna need more police officers, so we're gonna make the Danes feel better in this country. So there are plenty of things to do and lots of discussions that are going on in a fall, where we know very well, and it might as well be said from the platform that there will be a discussion about public sector considerations and the welfare that we would like to have jointly via the public sector, and then some parties' desire for large tax cuts. But we'll put the work gloves on. We believe in our own political project, which is why we are also looking forward to the debate in the autumn on those issues. Finally, I have to make a proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that much is going well in Denmark. There is great confidence in Danish economy. Since the parliamentary elections, some 80,000 more private jobs have been created, and the number of people on public support is the lowest for a decade. There is growth and development in many parts of the country, but it is important to continue to ensure the focus on a Denmark in balance. The Folketing stresses the ambition to make Denmark a stronger country with better conditions for growth, prosperity and welfare. The Danish Parliament notes that one of the ways to ensure growth and prosperity is that more Danes come into work and that core welfare is strengthened. The asylum number in the first quarter of 2017 was the lowest since the third quarter of 2008. Parliament considers it essential that the number of asylum seekers should continue to be kept at a very low level in the future. The Folketing stresses the importance of continuing to make decisions that ensure that we leave a stronger Denmark to the next generation. • V 123).
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105431	Thank you. The first brief remark is from Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105440	Thanks for the speech. I fully share the enthusiasm for this year's summer revelries, which are starting now. And it is worth noting that the minister who was having a good time has himself participated in the traditional Christiansborgrevy and actually done quite well there. On Saturday there will be a premiere in Sønderborg, and I don't know if the Prime Minister will go free there. I'll report back if that's the case. However, the Revys thing reminded me that it seemed rather like something was repeated when the government presented its 2025 plan, and the rapporteur touched on it a little, i.e. the issue of tax relief, in particular the issue of top tax relief. It seems a bit like repeating an old joke, which is why I would really like to ask whether Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl could not just elaborate on the views he among others. expressed in the weekly newsletter Monday Morgen on top tax reliefs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105545	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105549	Yes, but it may be that for many Danes too there is such an experience that it all passes revue, i.e. that it is a repetition that happens. To the extent that repetition means that there is some consistency over the political aspect, in other words that you can hear something you have heard in the past, it is not so crazy. It may even be that it discourages politicians to find some repetition of the political parties and that they do not jump from one position to another. The Danish People's Party, I almost said, knows where you have. Because we went to the polls to ensure that the public sector should be able to cope with the common welfare that we have through the public sector, among other things. more elderly people who need help, that our hospitals should be able to keep up, that staff should also be able to keep up, more police officers etc. etc. It all costs some money, and that is why we have proposed that there should be a modest real growth in the public sector over the coming years. That's what we're working for. And then it is clear that when we look at the money box and look at what is then for tax relief, we do not think there is much tax relief. We think the second is a first task. The next is, of course, that if you have money for tax cuts, we want them to be used at the bottom and not to give tax relief at the top. So that is our clear priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105701	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105705	I know, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also loves football, and so I would like to say that I watched TV 2 last night and felt completely set aside for the time of happy Richard Møller Nielsen, who said something like "and now I'm not going to try to say it in English, because it didn't go so well for him to turn down expectations when the national team went to win a bigger tournament 25 years ago. And I understand that this is the same message as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has to the government regarding tax relief. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105738	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105742	Yes, it could be very festive to start challenging each other on quotes from Richard Møller Nielsen and other football koryphues. But it is quite true that this is our call. It was also last autumn when some people were very vocal about the desire for top tax relief. It is now, that is, it has been for years. Those who go around telling the Danes that there are very large tax cuts should, we think, be careful a little, because we find it difficult to see that there is so much money for large tax cuts. And the less money there is for tax cuts, the more important it is to spend them where it is politically right. And it has to be said that people who pay top taxes, i.e. people who earn well, have received tax cuts over a long period of time, when they have actually reduced, it can be said that the proportion of people who pay top tax, plus that there has been a marginal tax relief, which has also been quite large.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105839	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105846	Thank you for that, President. And thank you very much, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the rapporteur's speech and the insight into the beginning of the summer country with revues around. Speaking of circus performances, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also appeared with the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, in a circus-like setting, the circus building in Copenhagen, and a few weeks ago, Mrs Mette Frederiksen was asked the following question: What is actually the substance of the difference between foreign policy in the Social Democracy and in the Danish People's Party? Mrs Mette Frederiksen did not really want to answer that question at the time. And in addition to the obvious, i.e. the will to have it deposited with the Radical Left, which I may see as a difference, I do not imagine it immediately, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl will be willing to join Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl saw any nuances? We have, of course, raised something about the integration service earlier today. Could it be an area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105938	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531105942	Well, I shudder, I think, at the thought that Mr. Morten Østergaard had to put the agenda back on foreign policy. We have seen what happens in the past when the Radicals have decisive influence in Danish politics, for then it is primarily in the field of foreigners that they have got it, that is, that they have really left their mark, and I think that has certainly left a number of tasks that we others have had to try to solve in relation to Denmark's challenges. Well, when specific questions are asked about the integration benefit, I would say that this is one of the areas in which the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party have seen decisively different things. We are in favour of integration. After all, we chose to reduce the benefits significantly to those who apply to Denmark, because it is part of the fact that there are fewer people coming to Denmark that the benefits are simply lower. I would certainly also like to call on the Social Democratic Party to rethink the issue in relation to the benefits of integration and get on the road, because it is one of the tools that has worked in relation to the fact that there are fewer people coming to Denmark, as it will be a less attractive country to apply to, and we can also see now that it has worked in relation to those who are here, so that they are actually more looking into the labour market instead of being on transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110048	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110049	I am not surprisingly in agreement with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in, especially in the latter, the fact that the integration benefit has an effect, and not only in relation to how attractive Denmark is compared to other countries, but also in relation to how attractive the labour market is rather than passive support, makes the integration benefit a difference, and so does the cash benefits ceiling. And I would like to sign for the support of the Danish People's Party for both of these things and then try to make an invitation or invitation, or whatever we shall call it, to the Danish People's Party, which I hope will be welcomed, if this is not something that we should spread. Should we not ensure together that working becomes more attractive and that we get more people in the working community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110140	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110141	It can be said that we have had this strategy for years that it would be right to introduce a ceiling on cash benefits. We also made it clear before the last election that we were prepared to do so, and we have done so. We also said that we wanted to introduce an integration benefit again, so that the one you got when you came to Denmark was at a lower level. We have done the same. And then we have said that, to the extent that there is money for it, we want to lighten the tax for people who earn low incomes, because it also helps to make it more attractive for people on transfer income to get into jobs, even if it is for a low income. And in relation to the latter, I also remember that this was what the Left was working for in the election campaign, so we would like to try to achieve that together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110220	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110241	I read the press the other day, and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl himself has also mentioned the festive rush that has almost been in the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party since the government made its plan to raise the retirement age in the grave. It's actually a celebration I've been participating in. That is also something on which we have been very much in agreement. In fact, there has always been a minority who wanted to do so. There has never been a majority in favour of this. So why it's historic, I don't know. But that is certainly a good thing. I very much agree with some of what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has struck all the way through, that is, people who have hard, hard jobs, lift suitcases, clean all those things, that is, some of those who need to be treated properly and have the opportunity to withdraw properly. Then I just can't understand why the Danish People's Party still holds fast to the 2006 welfare agreement, which means that with the votes of the Danish People's Party, the retirement age will rise again in three years and again and again later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110349	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110350	Yeah, but we stand by that deal. Basically, we also think it is right that we have a perspective that, when we live longer, the retirement age will also be adjusted. There is, of course, a general logic in that. But that is absolutely right when Mrs Pernille Skipper says that there are some people who are being challenged on it. Of course there is. That is where we have to start and find out how to deal with it. It is indeed a task, of course, for companies and the public sector, to provide a labour market where there is room for seniors, even when they are worn out in one way or the same way, and to find jobs for them. The Prime Minister keeps mentioning this corruption council, I think it was, and robotics, and that you've been out on a lot of businesses and experienced a lot of positive things. And what becomes art is how we find out how to use the tools so that the people who would otherwise be worn out so that they need to get away from the labour market can actually stay hanging. That's what art is. It is not how we ensure that people can just get away faster than what has been agreed. It is also a question of how we help those people to actually stay in the labour market and be appreciated in the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110503	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110504	I find it almost fascinating, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl just can take over the arguments of the Left and the Government. It is precisely the same that has been the argument for the government's proposal for 1⁄2 years more. With the 2006 welfare agreement, a person of 30 years of age today, who may have started learning at the age of 16, can leave when the person is 73 years old. Then you can come up with a lot of robotic technology, but before it's here, some people get stuck. And I can't understand why the Danish People's Party is going to stand by the nose, because you can see now with the 2025 plan that comes that the money that was obtained with the welfare agreement is not intended to be spent on welfare. They will be used by the government for tax relief, contrary to what the Danish People's Party was promised back in 2006. Honestly, isn't it time for this settlement to be terminated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110600	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110602	Well, we don't feel like we're in trouble. We have made a political agreement, we stand by it. Then we have been asked whether we want to increase the retirement age further, and then we have said no for the sake of the overall balance, which must be precisely for the sake of those people who would be told shortly that they would be stuck for longer. We do not think it is fair to do so. We made a deal. It knows people. You know what it is about, and then we do not want to go further along that path. But we do want to tell those who are young today, who have the prospect of being longer in the labour market, that they should not have grueling jobs that make them unable to cope with it. There we must then work on how to ensure those people an opportunity in the labour market where they do not become worn out, as they would be worn out in today's Denmark with the ways of working today. If you do not have that perspective on the part of Enhedslisten, then it is somehow poor, I think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110657	In the second round, you only have 1⁄2 minutes. This applies to both Mrs Pernille Skipper and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. The next rapporteur, who has a brief comment, is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110706	Thank you. I'd like to talk to you about something like that, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl unfortunately did not mention, and that is our nature. We are seeing a sharp decline in our biodiversity right now. Species die out hundreds to a thousand times faster. It is simply mass destruction of our nature that we see, both plants and animals. I was trying to get a few words from Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl about the Danish nature. What should we do at home to ensure that we do not completely destroy our entire nature, all our plants, so that we still have a high biodiversity and also in relation to wild wildlife? What will be done by the Danish People's Party for the nature, which is of course ours all and which we need?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110756	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110756-2	I now have such a déjà vu, because I think we had the same discussion at the opening debate, and that was certainly helpful. I think that my answer back then, as I also immediately got an impression about it should be now, was that I actually think that we have an incredible amount of both beautiful and lovely nature in Denmark, and we have many areas where it is great both to live and get out. I myself am from Midtjylland, where I have a very short way to, I think, quantities of good nature, and also, where there is a great diversity. And there are these areas that are simply being tried out so that there can be a greater diversity in relation to nature. So I just don't share the view that the starting point is as black as it's drawn here. The Danish People's Party has been involved in the construction of larger areas in Denmark, where there are natural areas that are allowed to live their own lives to a greater extent and where more species, etc. can grow. So I think we have an excellent starting point and I also think that we are actually doing something about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110904	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110906	We have it that we've had the conversation before. The reason why I am taking it up again is because we have seen some initiatives this year which are not going to strengthen our biodiversity and our nature, among other things. The pesticide plan. Therefore, I would like to know whether the Danish People's Party will help ensure that we get more wild nature, not cultural landscapes, but natural landscapes. Is it something that is also on the agenda of the Danish People's Party, namely that we actually ensure that there is a wild nature to pass on to our children and grandchildren?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110935	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531110936	In any case, we have been involved in making agreements which mean that there will be more so-called wild nature. It is always a balance in that we are also a proud agricultural country. We want to ensure that there is a profession that can actually manage. This whole thing about what's really important for Danes is a little funny. Because at one point here recently I went for a walk out on the west coast, where I talked to some people out there who said that the funny thing was that people who came out there came where there were a lot of people where there were some houses and where there were some things and stuff. Then, on the other hand, there were the deserted areas that we then chose to go on. I said there's no one here. Then they said: No, this isn't where people come at all. But it was the most important nature to go in, so it could also be that you had to get out in a lot of the nature we actually have and where there are great areas to move in. But it is true that it may then be that there will be a less wild nature, and then it may be that there is less diversity in those areas because there will be more people. But there may be more who will then be allowed to enjoy it, i.e. the nature we actually have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111031	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111032	There has been much focus on the disagreement of the Danish People's Party with the government for which one is parliamentary in relation to economic policy. I would like to dwell on the fact that there is also, I think, a great deal of agreement in foreign policy. All honour and respect for the fact that the Danish People's Party likes to say that you want to take care of Denmark, but it is a little strange that those who are experienced as the strongest threat to Denmark and who in every way possible try to get us to live in a different way and to stop working with other countries, namely Russia, the Danish People's Party has thrown on their foreign policy love. I think there are many of us who find it difficult to understand what kind of a way to look after Denmark by allying closer with Russia. But then I realized that it might be because Russia is a strong ally for the Danish People's Party. In any case, it is the case that Russia is very actively supporting those forces in Europe that are most sceptical about European cooperation. One has a common enemy there, namely EU cooperation, and that is why I would just like to ask whether it is the motivation for the Danish People's Party to have a rather more friendly line in relation to Russia than that of the government's foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111145	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111146	Firstly, the greatest threat facing Denmark is that which is Islamist-fundamentalist based. It is the one who is perpetrating terrorism in our neighbouring countries and who has a great risk that one day it will also hit the Danes. That's the biggest threat. That's the way it is. The second thing I want to say is: is Russia an ally for the Danish People's Party? No, Russia is not. Are we gonna break like Putin? No, we don't. We think he's awful. Should Denmark have dialogue with a country like Russia, as well as with many other countries in the world? Yes, we do, but it is not a dialogue that is based on feeling a friendship or that we feel connected or that we are ally with them. We are a party anchored in the view that Denmark belongs in NATO, in the Western Defence Alliance, and that is how we serve our security interests best.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111241	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111242	I think that in many ways was a useful clarification, and it may well be that it was obvious to Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl said that was where the position was. I do not think it is quite obvious in the day-to-day work of foreign policy when you follow the debate that this is how you feel. Still, one has to say that one has in common with the President of Russia that one is actively seeking to undermine the close cooperation within the European Union. This is also common to the Front National in France, which is also actively supported by Russia. There is just my question: what is the ultimate goal for the Danish People's Party? Is it a European Union that goes into the glue? Is it a Denmark that is outside the EU? Is it a Denmark that has a looser connection with the EU than, for example, the United Kingdom? Norway has?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111329	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111330	The point of view around Russia cannot be Mr. Morten Østergaard unknown. We had exactly the same exchange of views, I think it was at the opening debate. Naser Khader, who took it up and there I answered exactly the same or at least with the same content. So it's obvious. As far as the European Union is concerned, we want Brussels to realise that Brexit is an expression of the need to find a different balance between what the European Union is dealing with and what the nation states are dealing with, because what will provide more harmonious cooperation in Europe in the future is that we do not continue to undermine the rights of nation states, among others. to have border controls, to decide who comes into our country, to avoid social dumping, value conflicts and all these things. There are a lot of things in which the European Union simply has to realise that nation states must play a greater role. That is what the Danish People's Party wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111418	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111419	SF and I are very concerned that older people can have a dignified old age, and a dignified old age also requires that there are resources for the diversity that we are when we grow old. In the City of Copenhagen, SF's mayor Nina Thomsen has ensured that older people can get a rock map. On that clipping card you have the opportunity to use your home helper time for more than just basic care. Among other things, you can... use it for a walk in nature. That's 90 percent. of the elderly who do, and that's really good news because it's also about quality of life. You must not only be careful, you must also have the opportunity to live, even if you are old, and therefore I would like to ask a question to the Danish People's Party. After all, there is evidence that the municipalities are going to save on elderly care because of the government's austerity requirements, which is as much as 0.5 billion. kr. in 2018. Does Dansk Folkeparti believe that municipalities can help improve the service level or just keep it at the current level if you are to save 0.5 billion. kr. In 2018? And what are we going to see that savings need to be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111525	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111526	I share much of what Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has said here in relation to the concerns of our elderly. It is not just a question of having fundamental care, but it is also a question of having quality of life. We have, among other things. In addition, there is a need to ensure that food scent is introduced into nursing homes, that you are involved and that you get food prepared at the individual care centre. As far as the rock map scheme, mentioned by Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, is concerned, we wanted to extend it to a larger part of the country by means of the Finance Act, because we just thought it was a good example from Copenhagen. We have then used the positive initiative to set aside money to try to spread it in several parts of the country, and it is, of course, initiatives that we will continue to take in the interests of older citizens, so that there is a greater quality of life. It is also true that there will be more elderly people, that there will be more over 80 years of age and that there will be more demented elderly people, and we have a great deal of difficulty in seeing that this task can be carried out with fewer resources. So that is also an answer to the question: We do not see that one can. That is also why we are working annually to increase resources to work with, among other things. In relation to the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111637	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111637-2	I agree with Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl in that there is both the demographic challenge, that is, that there are more older people and that some of them also become more sick and more demented, and that is why we are facing a greater challenge, including economic ones. I think there's an example from Odense that pops into my eyes. An older lady was in the hospital and had actually been told: You will find it hard to get back to the life you have, but we would like to make a plan for you. What's it gonna take? What's your wish? What will you be able to do? The old lady said: I would like to be able to ride a horse again and therefore also be able to handle these things. Actually, they did a rehabilitation program for her so she could get to it. It also means that she can do much more in everyday life. But that requires resources in the municipalities concerned. How will the Danish People's Party secure it if the government still lays down a spending framework of only 0.3 per cent. in the public sector?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111731	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111732	I think that is a very good example that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has set here. It is clear that it takes resources to help people to take care of themselves, but if they do manage themselves, they will spend fewer resources on the individual who now has a better quality of life, because he can actually do more things himself. It's a sunshine story. It is clear that the more we can get municipalities to think in these ways, the better for our older fellow citizens. I fully agree that, from the outset, it costs some resources and they must be there. That is the position of the Danish People's Party and that is what we are going to negotiate with. We have also shown this in connection with this year's Finance Act, where, as I mentioned at the beginning of the speech, we have put extra money into the area of the elderly precisely in terms of better food experiences and the like in the care centres and this rock map system, which must be disseminated, which can also give the good examples that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111826	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111826-2	Thank you. I would like to return to the issue of top tax and top tax relief. I have also noted that the rapporteur has already been out saying that he would like to reduce the expectations of very large tax cuts in the context of a future agreement. The rapporteur's excellent fellow party member and my good colleague, Mr. Dennis Flydtkjær from Herning, tax rapporteur, has also said that there is a huge majority around the government which does not think that top tax relief is a good idea. I think it will end in the same way as with the high retirement age. I'm just gonna ask sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, whether he agrees with his tax rapporteur. Thinks sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl also that it ends as with the higher retirement age?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111915	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531111915-2	To the honourable Member, sir. Mogens Jensen from Herning I would like to say that in the Danish People's Party we have the view that we are working hard to implement our policy. And it is not the case that there are areas where we think: Never mind; there we do not fight to implement our policy. We do that in all areas, and I think that somewhere it is going quite well so far. In other words, I very much welcome the opportunities for implementing our policy, including in relation to the recent discussions on retirement age. So it is also in the cards compared to the autumn that we will, of course, do what we can to get our policy implemented. And on the question of whether we have opted for a need to lower the top tax, I would say: no, we are not. We have come to the vote on the fact that it is difficult to find money for tax relief. But if you can find some, we think they should be used at the bottom. And I also said earlier today in my reply to Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I think that is an ambition we should try to rediscover. Because that's where it makes sense, we think.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112018	Sir. Mogens Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112020	Thank you. I agree with the rapporteur that prioritising top tax relief is a very, very bad idea. If we are to give priority to the room for manoeuvre that we have, I believe that the DF and the Social Democrats agree that then investment in our welfare is more important than top tax incentives. If I'm gonna understand that, like Mr. Simpson... Kristian Thulesen Dahl says here that DF is looking for an agreement without top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112054	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112055	If we make the policy ourselves, there are no top tax concessions, that is clear. It's not a wish we make. One can say that when we do not think there is a need, it is also because we can see that the top tax has actually been relaxed for top taxpayers for a number of years. Compared to that, sir. Mogens Jensen says, may I also just say that the relief from top tax in these years takes place on the basis of the tax agreement made in 2012, when it was the Social Democratic Party that had the power of government and led the negotiations. After all, it has now gradually been decided to raise the threshold for paying top tax, so that more and more people do not have to pay top tax. But it does overall that we do not think there is a need to look there, but look at the bottom so that those who have low incomes get a helping hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112143	Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112145	Thank you. The government has set up a reorganisation committee to look at how we can clean up some of these excise duties we have in Denmark. In the Conservative People's Party, we would, of course, like to see us create a majority and very much like together with the Danish People's Party to ease some of the charges on, among others. some of these groceries that a lot of Danes drive down the border to buy cheaper. This affects both growth and especially local communities in some of Denmark's outermost regions. Among other things, you have... Because of the border trade seen a decrease in turnover in the grocery stores in South Jutland in recent years unlike the rest of the country, which has experienced a growth. The reorganisation committee should be happy to make their recommendations here in August, which is why I would like to hear Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, whether the Danish People's Party will help to lighten some of these excise duties, if that's what the committee recommends.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112244	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112245	I think that is entirely relevant. I think it is a good thing that this work is being done. We have previously been involved in many discussions about how we could limit border trade, because the problem is that once people drive first, and if there is something pulling, you do the big shopping, and then it is a lot of product types that pass by Denmark, the local merchant or the local Dagli's Brugsen, and also a lot of tax revenue from that trade goes by Denmark. That is why it is certainly an effort and we look forward to the committee making its assessments if it is then in August they reach it. However, when they are at least ahead of the autumn discussions, it is quite appropriate to look there what we can do, also in relation to whether we can relax some taxes. In the past, we have also pointed out the packaging tax as an area which might help to alleviate border trade, but we would very much like to enter into that work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112342	Mrs. Merete Scheelsbeck.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112343	I'd like to sign for the courtesy of sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. It is very nice to note that we have a common interest in this area. I understand that in August I shall also look forward to seeing the Circusrevyen. I am not so fine that I am invited to the premiere, but can look forward to it anyway, and now I will look forward even more to reading these recommendations and the subsequent negotiations on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112405	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112407	I just have to tell you that I wasn't actually invited to the premiere either, so I wasn't fine enough either, but I was allowed to go with someone who was.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112417	Is Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen present? Then we move on to Mr. Simon Kollerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112427	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for putting us all into the cozy atmosphere of the tent in Circusrevyen on Bakken. I did not hear the gentle laughter of the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior in the tent, but I have heard him say something else that I would like to ask the rapporteur. I have heard the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior say that one would like at least 33 per cent. the tasks of the municipalities must be exposed to private competition when we hit 2025. Today we are just about 27 per cent. At the same time, I have also heard the rapporteur say that if the proportion is to be so high, municipalities will be able to outsource the soft areas of classical welfare, such as: care for the elderly, otherwise it will not be possible. We are very sceptical about that. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democratic Party, does not want mandatory targets for public procurement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112520	Sir. Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112522	I recall that from time to time we have been asked to share in setting up the percentage for how much the municipalities have to offer, and we have each and every time problematized exactly the same thing that is being asked about here, namely whether the municipalities, if they get too high up, risk having to bring these softer welfare areas in order to get there, and that is where we simply do not think the experience is very good. There are too many places, for example. In the area of care for the elderly, have tried to outsource, but where the company has then gone bankrupt. The fact is that it is the municipality that is left with responsibility for the older citizens who suddenly find that they do not get the help of the company that otherwise had the task, and then the municipality must still have some sort of preparedness ready to help these citizens. It is something quite different when we talk about the technical department's park and plant management. If you're going to mow a lawn, you can, even if the grass gets a little higher, wait a little bit, because we can all live with that, but when it comes to people, we really need to be careful.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112627	Sir. Simon Kollerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112629	I very much agree with the rapporteur on this, and that is also why we have had the debate along the way, whether it is wise or not wise to put in place these mandatory targets for how high the pressure on competition should be. That is actually what I would like to ask the rapporteur, i.e. whether the Danish People's Party, like the Social Democrats, does not want mandatory targets to be set for the suspension of competition, because, with figures that are just slightly higher than where we are now, we are beginning to move into the soft welfare areas where, as the rapporteur himself says, the risk becomes great and becomes something that we politically do not want to model.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112705	Sir. Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112707	I can confirm that. We're really very unideological in this field. We meet someone who is very ideological in that it is about the fact that the outsourcing is important, almost in itself, we sometimes think, but it is not for us. For us, this is a task that needs to be solved in our welfare society, namely that you should be able to deliver your children safely to children's institutions, but also that you should have the assurance that parents or grandparents will have good care in the municipality in which they now live, and there are some tasks that we naturally think belong in our common framework in the municipalities, and therefore we have no desire to push those tasks out into private hands. For us, it is simply a practical task that needs to be done in the best possible way and we do not see ideologically that it is better for that task to be carried out by some others.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112758	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112800	Thank you. I know it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl knows that over the last 15 years, every year, a claim has been made to our hospitals to deliver more activity, without the money being included in this productivity requirement. This means, of course, that our staff at the hospitals, such as doctors, nurses and cleaning staff, must deliver more activity every year. And the consequence is to take and feel for patients who experience that there is no time to talk to the doctor properly before, for example, talking to the doctor. must undergo an operation, or the nurses do not have time to calm patients who are concerned. That is why I have also noted that the Danish People's Party has agreed that this productivity requirement for our hospitals should now be abolished, and I think that is very welcome. But that attitude is worth something only if it is followed by action, and it is in these days that it happens. If we did not just sit here for the final debate, I think the Minister of Finance would actually be negotiating with Danske Regions on next year's economy and on whether there should be a productivity requirement next year in hospitals. So my question is: will the Danish People's Party inform the Minister of Finance that it only supports an economic agreement if this productivity requirement is taken out, so that it does no further damage to our hospitals than the damage that has already been done?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112923	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531112924	Well, we think that time has run out of that demand for 2%. efficiency improvements that have been laid down over the hospitals for over 15 years. We share the view that the low-hanging fruits have been taken, and are now in a situation where too much pressure is being put on the staff in the hospitals. And for us, there is no doubt that there are a lot of examples that suffer patients. After all, concern for patients is also a concern for employees who must have proper working conditions. And that means that we think we need to make up for this requirement of 2%. We have said this to the government and the Folketing is our position, and we are working for it. It is absolutely right that we should then be measured by our actions and how it can then be ensured that that requirement is met. And there it is up to us to work with and find out how best to do it. But there should be no doubt about what we are going for, and let's see if we are not going to get our will through on this point too. That's what I'm betting on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113029	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113032	Well, there is a very obvious possibility that the Danish People's Party can take action. Because we know that the government will come to the Folketing and will have approved an economic agreement. If the productivity requirement is part of that economic agreement, despite the fact that we know that Danske Regions are fighting to get rid of it, then the Danish People's Party can say to the government: Well then we will not vote for your economic agreement. Otherwise it will be a little free for the Danish People's Party. Then it will be just an attitude that is not followed by action. So it is a perfectly obvious opportunity for Kristian Thulesen Dahl to use today and tell the Minister of Finance before he has to go over and conclude the negotiations: there is only one support from the Danish People's Party for the economics agreement if the productivity requirement is out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113120	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113121	There's no free round in this at all. One cannot stand and make such a clear point of view here from the speaking chair of the Folketing and then believe that it is just such a free round that it can be done to the Danes to say that we mean it, and then you do nothing about it. That's absurd. Thank God this is not the case in our democracy in this country. If Danske Regioner chooses to make an agreement with the government, if the National Association of Municipalities chooses to make an agreement with the government, voluntarily, then we approve the agreements. Does this mean that we then have no chance of getting our policy through? No, of course it doesn't. There will also be a financial bill debate for 2018. I mean, there's a lot of things that have to be dealt with all the time. And what we need to measure is whether the Danish People's Party succeeds in getting our policy through, and, as I said before, we are very committed to getting it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113204	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113205	Thank you for your speech, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. One of the things that has not been discussed so much in the government proposal is this: interaction problems with pensions, savings for pensions. This is one of the things that I attach great importance to, namely that it should actually be possible to save up for the pension, because it is important that everyone has saved up for the pension. So I'm gonna try to hear sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: What does Dansk Folkeparti say about this proposal in relation to interaction problems with the pension?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113232	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113234	There is no doubt that it is incredibly important that we resolve this. The government has now put its proposal on the table yesterday on what should happen next. I have also noted that there are various representatives of the pension sector who have, after all, said that they think that this is a very good starting point, but that they also believe that it can be improved. So, of course, we look forward over the next few weeks to negotiating this with the government and trying to find a solution to a solution that is also balanced, so it is also for the benefit of people who do not necessarily have very high incomes. For that is also part of the dilemma here, also in relation to the period of time, for example. can pay an oldage pension so that you are not offset when you retire, etc. Well, who has what funds to pay into such an account, and when can you do so, and when do you even retire? These are, of course, some of the things that the pension industry has at least been out and problematizing. We will bring this to the negotiating table and have an analysis done. Then we hope that we will get a good solution to this, and very much in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113339	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113343	I am very pleased about that. In addition, one of the things that is also part of the proposal is the fact that there are some groups of employees who are actually not saving up for retirement at all today, partly because they may not be covered by an agreement, partly because they are outside the labour market. I think it's important that we get everyone on board, so everyone has a pension when they retire. Is this also one of the things that the Danish People's Party is positive about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113407	Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113408	I think it is a good thing that everyone is saving up for retirement. I also think it would be good if people who do not have a link with the labour market were somehow to have the opportunity to save up. But it is clear that we are also in and should look at how we put the individual. Because if you do not already have much to do well with and then you are asked to put into a pension scheme some of the things you have little to do well with, so that you can get it out when you go on a public pension and how are the set-off rules so etc.? But the basic principle that, of course, we are trying to create a system in which everyone is involved in saving is basically healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113447	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113451	Thank you. I would like to change a little on the subject of the debate, that is to say on public spending, because the government is proposing that there should be a 0.3% increase in public spending. In the past, the Danish People's Party has announced that there must be an increase in public consumption, which is somewhat higher than that. If we get down to this 0.3 percent that the government is up to, there will be a saving in the region of 13 billion. kr. We must not forget that there are still more children and more elderly people. The big question then is how the Danish People's Party intends to use the decisive votes, because that is what happens when we talk about the growth of public consumption, i.e. how the Danish People's Party imagines using the decisive votes that the Danish People's Party has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113536	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113538	It is always good to sit with the crucial voices, so thank you for that. It's good to know we're doing it. We have gone after political agreements also in these few years, which have gone since the elections in the summer of 2015, going after political agreements where there is room for real growth in the public economy near what we have been fighting for, namely these 0.8%. So it has, like, been put into the work that has been done. Looking back over those years, it is not necessarily where you land, but it depends on what the municipalities actually spend on what they have to do and what the costs are for asylum seekers and things and things. But that's what we've been looking for. I think it is a good thing that the government is operating with real growth. One can say that it was parties sitting in the government now that went to the polls on zero growth, minus growth, so it is good that it has ended in plus growth. But is that quite enough? No, it is not if it is to meet the challenges that I think we agree on there. That is why, of course, we are going to work to push it up higher. I believe that the government has written that it must be at least 0.3, and it certainly leaves room for movement, even when we get to the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113644	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113648	Thank you for your answer. It reassures me that the Danish People's Party is aware that it is the crucial mandates on which the Danish People's Party sits and that it has a desire to use the majority then in the Danish Parliament to push it up considerably. That word at least 0.3%. I have also noticed that it is quite crucial, but of course also crucial, that we are not faced with having to cut welfare very sharply in the years to come. So here's just one final comment: I am glad that the Danish People's Party is aware that they have the crucial votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113718	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113720	Just as we must be aware of it, we are so nervous that if others in the Chamber are to sit with the decisive voices, you are looking at the Radicals and the Alternative and the Enhedslisten in at least some of the political areas that are important for the Danish People's Party. So it is true that it is a little important who sits on the crucial mandates.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113739	If sir... Jan E. Jørgensen will be available another time when he is on the list, I will give him the last question to the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113749	Thank you. I'm sorry I wasn't here before. Some say that if you want to keep a secret, you should say it in the Assembly Hall, so I dare say that when the Danish People's Party was founded, I was quite fascinated, not least by the extremely sensible tax policy that was put forward. Back then, I wrote: The Danish People's Party believes that progressive taxation is part of a socialist envy tax that at the same time has not worked. The property tax and the land tax were to be abolished. The inheritance tax was to be totally abolished. The corporate tax had to be abolished, and then we had to have a high tax-free bottom tax rate of 30%. I think it was perhaps a little bit ambitious, and I also agree that the Danish People's Party has modified the tax policy a little bit since then, but I just want to ask whether there is still a tax sceptic hiding behind the suit and express my hope that we will find each other in the forthcoming negotiations to get something done about the tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113848	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113849	It's a compliment that you can get smarter in 22-23 years. But the point is, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen ought to be excited about what I have been talking about about taxes, because in fact I have today spoken the Left back on track in relation to what the Left was going to vote on. Then there has been a turnaround along the way that has brought some top tax discussion into the central stage; I know that. I mean, it hasn't really gotten to me yet. Nevertheless, as I remember, there was a common concern in the election campaign that if there is money for tax relief, perhaps it was time that those with a slightly lower income were next. So the Left Party should be pleased with the Danish People's Party's action in the field of taxation policy. It may present some challenges to others; I acknowledge that, but still.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113941	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen
ParlaMint-DK_20170531113944	Well, I'm also thrilled, and it was more to tell the common history of what is the difference between us and this socialist envy policy that was talked about in the programme from then on. Because it is precisely about getting ordinary Danes who go to work to drop something cheaper, but perhaps also about the electrician who can see that if he takes an hour's overtime, he has to pay quite a lot because of top tax and has very little left. Perhaps here you could look at the limit of when you pay top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531114020	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531114021	This has been done in recent years because the limit has been raised from DKK 390,000. A few years ago to well up to half a million kroner now, and it has withdrawn quite a lot from the top tax. I think it has come to light today that it is about 10% that pays top tax. It is the lowest number that I read it, ever by Danes who are now paying top tax. My prayer is, of course, that you just think that you might have been there and that if there is money to do well, some others will be next, perhaps those with the slightly lower salaries and lower incomes, who will get a greater gain by then being at work instead of being on transfer income.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531114101	Thank you very much, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl for the effort. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531114113	Thank you very much for that, President. I have been looking forward to this final debate, because such a debate gives an opportunity to focus on the slightly larger lines and focus on what is important, and today we have a welcome opportunity to rise up a little above everyday political cloaks and focus on what really matters to the majority of Danes. Is it red, green or purple lines for a hypothetical government? Is it a party's internal self-discussion after decades of failed alien politics with endless discussions about what bliss Anker Jørgensen really thought about foreign policy? Is it important who sits on a couch with who in here at Christiansborg? Actually, I don't think so. I believe, and I hope, that the Danes are more concerned about the effect of the policy pursued. In August 2015, shortly after the last parliamentary elections, the Prime Minister presented four points of reference for his role as Prime Minister of Denmark. These were four points on which his policy was to be measured, and he said a little courageously in this respect: call us a failure if we do not move that way. So I would like to use my rapporteur's speech to stand up a little with a straight back and try to look a little beyond Christiansborg's high walls. Because how are things going out there in the real world? Have we as a society moved in the right direction over the past two years? The first point mark mentioned by the Prime Minister was that fewer Danes should be on public support. So that's it? Yes, it is. Unemployment was at its lowest level in 2016 for 40 years but 2 years in the 00s. The number of publicly supported persons fell by more than 22,000 in 2016, and the number of cash benefits recipients has decreased by around 7,000 people since the cash benefits ceiling was adopted. It is a success story, and it is on several levels. It is, of course, a success for the Treasury because it creates room for us to spend the money on other important things. But more importantly, it is a success for the individual, who is now part of the working community, and it is not least a success for those children who can now grow up with a model that goes to work every day to feed their own family and to contribute to the community. The second point was that more private jobs should be created, and the number of employees is the highest in eight years. Private employment has increased by 91,000 since the last parliamentary elections, and last week, Danish Occupations could tell that the recovery has taken place in all parts of the country. Growth and employment are increasing wherever in Denmark you live. The third point was that the core welfare should be strengthened, and here we have indeed delivered. We have strengthened core welfare in spite of a tight financial framework, and health care has been raised by a total of 3.2 billion. kr. Since 2015. This means that we can create a historically large cancer plan that can lift the Danish treatment to the highest international level. At the same time, we have introduced patient-responsible doctors to provide a more coherent course of treatment for patients, and now that I am talking about putting the patient at the centre, I would also say that we have introduced a real right to a rapid investigation and reinstated the 30-day treatment guarantee that the previous government had otherwise deteriorated. The area of the elderly has also been lifted. We've given the municipalities 1 billion. kr. more annually for a more dignified care of the elderly. We have drawn up an action plan for what, unfortunately, is very precisely called the disease of the relatives, dementia, and we have set aside 720 million. kr. to a cutting card scheme at nursing homes and 425 million. kr., so that the elderly in nursing homes can have their own kitchens established or re-established. The fourth point was that the influx of asylum seekers to Denmark was to be managed after 4 years of somewhat relaxed immigration policy. The government has implemented 56 tightening of immigration policy, and with the integration benefit we have made it less attractive to be on public support, and we have made it more attractive to learn Danish and more attractive to get to work, and it has worked. In 2015, 21,000 asylum seekers came to Denmark. By the beginning of 2017, the number had fallen to the lowest since 2009, i.e. 1,000 people in the first 4 months. So it's going the right way. Significant improvements have been made on all four points. But I know that for many parts of the Danish Parliament that is not what counts. Those aren't the results. From time to time, you can get the impression that it is quite different things you care about and quite different things you spend time on. So now I will try to communicate the results I have just mentioned again in a format that is based on something in which the opposition parties might see themselves better. We'll start with the 7,000 fewer on cash benefits. This is equivalent to 304 fewer cash aid recipients for each consultation issue that Mrs Astrid Krag has put to the Minister for the Elderly. Then we have the 79,000 more private jobs. That corresponds to 6,077 jobs for every time, sir. Nicolai Wammen has tweet variations on the theme: It sails in blue block. It's low set! ) It's low set. 3.2 billion kr. for better health equals 188 million. kr. per I would have liked to make a similar comparison with the Social Democratic Finance Bill, but it does not exist, so I cannot do that. There have been 56 tightenings in foreign policy, which roughly corresponds to 14 tightenings for every red line, Mrs Pernille Skipper has so far presented an imaginary prime minister for. So, of course, my call to the opposition could be on the one hand: keep doing this, tweet loose, call in consultation, propose tax increases, and sign red lines in the sand, and before we look around, all the problems are obviously solved. On the other hand, it might also be nice if the opposition actually joined the fight to create a more prosperous society, a society in which more people work, where fewer people are on public support, and where therefore we can afford even better welfare. For think, if together we could agree that Denmark should not stop, and that we should continue to experience marked improvements in our welfare and in our everyday lives, which have only been possible because we have become richer. Sir. Uffe Elbæk has even said that we should have stopped in 1980. I'm glad we didn't do it every day. At one point, the music, we should have stayed there, but otherwise it would have been bad. If we had stopped in 1980, our life expectancy would be much lower, our cancer treatment was worse, our level of education lower, and we would have had fewer and worse opportunities to adjust our lives in the way we would like. That is why we must continue with reforms. I will not face my children and grandchildren in 20 to 30 years' time and tell them that I did not have the courage and ambition to make the choices that provide them with the same opportunities that I myself have had, or some that surpass them. I am not going to tell them that I had the opportunity to secure the future of Denmark, but that I did not do so because I could not find 90 mandates. Because that's what politics is all about for me. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115008	Thank you, too. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. And then there are a number of brief comments. I think we can make three brief comments before lunch. The first one's from sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115021	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech, too, for the humorous part of it. My question to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is concerned with border controls. I don't think that's gonna surprise you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, that the Danish People's Party raises the question, especially in relation to the external borders, because some of what goes back in the position of the Left on border controls is that we must have border controls at • in quotation marks • internal borders, as long as external borders are not controlled. Can the rapporteur of the Left lift a bit of a veil over what is meant by that with the control of the external borders? For some of us, it is very difficult to see that it is even possible to get there, that we have so much control over the external borders that it is possible to remove border controls between the EU countries, i.e. among other things. Denmark and Germany.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115115	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115117	Thank you for that, President. Well, it's hard to put on a formula when there's enough control. We can see that there is no such thing now. Well, the Balkan route has been stopped. There are several of the routes that the traffickers have used, in which a sock has been effectively stopped. Unfortunately, this has not happened on all the routes. We can see that, especially on that route from Libya across the Mediterranean to Italy, there are still incredibly many people. That means that Europe's external borders are not under control, and that is why we in the Left and also in the Government say that as long as we do not have control over the external borders, as long as we do not have control over who enters the continent of Europe, who enters the European Union, we need to have our internal border controls.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115207	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115209	What is hard to imagine is that you run up and down national border controls, depending on how many people are coming, because who is going to count them, and how are you going to do that? You often use the statement that it is very, very difficult to guard 68 km of land border between Denmark and Germany, because it is old-fashioned and it is virtually impossible to do so. However, if we in the European Union, on the thousands of kilometres of border which the European Union has as an external border, have to have enough control to cancel the need for us to control 68 km of land borders, because these thousands of kilometres of border around the European Union are now under control, it is, of course, that I can get the idea that it is difficult to reach a situation where there is so much control over the external borders that it can actually be said to be reassuring to let go of the internal border.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115258	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115259	I understand that concern, and I also share it a long way along the way, because we need to control the external borders. When I put it that way, it is because freedom of movement within the European Union means a great deal to me, and we do, Mr President. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and I, of course, discussed on several occasions. It means a lot to our businesses, it means a lot to our citizens that we can move freely and without hindrance across borders in Europe. The prerequisite for that is just that the external border is controlled and so it takes a lot for us that it is the order in which things are going to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115337	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115338	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left for a humorous speech. It's always a pleasure. I'd like to ask Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen how we are to understand the 2025 plan that came in yesterday. For that is 147 pages, but it must also be said that there are more loose birds on the roof than there are pigeons on the square when it comes to explaining how things are to be paid, and I also understand that top tax relief would be granted. So my question to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen is very simple: how much top tax relief will the government give and where exactly will you find the money to pay for them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115431	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115432	I was quite concerned that the word top tax relief should escape a sentence from Mr. Nicolai Wammen's mouth, and that didn't happen either. What is the framework for the 2025 plan that was sent out yesterday is exactly the same framework as that for the 2020 plan, Mr President. Bjarne Corydon presented when he was Minister of Finance. So the frame should not be so completely unknown to Mr. Nicolai Wammen was the same government, sir. Nicolai Wammen once sat in, as Mr. Bjarne Corydon, who issued that frame, was in it. Yes, we give priority to more people being allowed to keep more of the money they earn themselves. We think that's a good idea. We think it's a furious good idea. This applies especially to those with low incomes, so there is a greater incentive to work, but it also applies to those who pay top tax, as Mr. Nicolai Wammen is so incredibly in love with. I understand that infatuation, for it was the government I mentioned before and Mr. Nicolai Wammen was part of which gave 1.9 billion. kr. in top tax reliefs. We also contributed to that, because it was a good idea at the time, and that is a good idea today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115539	Sir. Nicolai Wammen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115541	It was a long song from the hot countries. I asked the rapporteur a very specific question, not about everything that has happened in the past, but: what is the government's plan in relation to top tax relief? How many billion dollars should top tax relief be granted, and how are they to be paid? It is not, of course, because the government cannot be more precise on other points, because it has been said that only 0.3 per cent can be allocated. for public consumption. This is less than half of what demographic trends mean. So there you are prepared to say very precisely that our day care institutions, our schools and our care for the elderly need to be cut back. Can we not also know how many billions of dollars are going to be spent on top tax relief, and how on earth will the government finance them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115632	Sir. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115633	Ah, it's been a single generation. The new generation is just a little faster. Sorry, I got a little confused about the generation issue. Well, excuse me, sir. Nicolai Wammen is up to this with saving on public spending, etc. We're up to the government to use 0.3 per cent. more to increase public spending, plus the reforms that we hope we will be able to get a wide range of the Folketing to contribute to. So the postulate that you keep running around with, that uh, that needs to be cut into the core welfare, etc., isn't right. One likes to use the image of educators who need to be cut back on something that was also made a special exercise under the Social Democratic led government. But yes, we think it is important to lighten the tax on work at both ends of the scale, and it calls the government for negotiations this autumn. It would suit the Royal Danish Social Democratic Party to participate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115733	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115735	Now they have become royal too! In the government's 2025 proposal, which came yesterday, we have certainly not just managed to read it all through, there was something that I stumbled on, and which I think is a little important, namely that the government announces that, in one way or another, there should be an SU reform to increase the supply of work. And if we just translate it into ordinary Danish, it's some kind of cuts in the SU. So, either some have to have less in SU, or fewer have to have SU. You have to understand that. After all, it stands to me in stark contrast to the speech just made by the Prime Minister quite a short time ago about helping young people on the edge better, and about the need for more young people to have an education. For example, we look. in a KORA report which is very large and which deals with SU, it is very clear that the cuts will be most damaging to young people who come from families where you do not have a large bookshelf and where education is not something that is such a permanent tradition. So frankly, shouldn't we get those SU reforms translated: SU cuts dead at long last?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115853	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531115854	It could be tempting to say a little polemical to say that now Mrs Pernille Skipper's party supported even a government that made an SU reform. That was in connection with the top tax relief, Mr. Nicolai Wammen stood for just now. Fortunately, in Denmark we have the world's most generous SU system. It is a system that is jealous of in many other countries, and I understand that. That's one of the things I think we should all be proud of in here. For it is a system that ensures, as Mrs Pernille Skipper also mentions, that it should not be the parents' bookshelf or purse that decides whether to get an education, and we must stick to that. It's important to hold on to it. The discussions we are going to have on the possible adjustment of the SU will also have to take place in the autumn. I just want to say that my starting point is that we must continue to be the most generous country when it comes to the SU. At the same time, however, I would also like to say that I would rather spend the money on educating students than on supporting students. So if you can create a changed balance there, I think it would be a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531120003	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531120004	Now it can be, and that is what the problem is, that if you do not support students, then you do not get them trained either. So, there can simply be a connection. I don't know if sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen sees "Shame" - this Norwegian series. I know that it has really made Norway a big thing for a lot of people at home, including in this Chamber. I'm personally pretty crazy about savages, maybe, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has a different character. I so wish we looked a little more towards Norway, because the Norwegian Storting has actually gone in the opposite direction. You have withdrawn the SU because you want more through, have more to take an education. Shouldn't we be inspired a little more by Norway, including when it comes to more than youth series, and get a better and stronger SU system so we can get more through?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531120055	Sir. Uffe Ellemann-Jensen No, I try with Jacob: Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531120103	Thank you. Time flies! Excuse me, but I'm not going to go into what grade I belong in Shame. I also see Shame, but I probably belong more to the grades in the Game of Thrones. But let it go. If I hear Mrs Pernille Skipper right, you want to be inspired by Norway's model for SU. It's bought. If we can be inspired by the Norwegian level or the Norwegian loan model, it is new notes from the Enhedslisten, and Mrs Pernille Skipper forgets to mention that here too. So the Norwegian level is lower. The Norwegian SU is loan-financed, so it is comparing pears and bananas. But if we're gonna go in that direction, I'd love to talk about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531120149	Thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the first round. We're gonna go to lunch in a minute, and it's gonna be 1 hour, so we're gonna start at 9:00. 1:00 sharp. And the first two of the ten rapporteurs who would like to make a brief comment on Mr Seligman's report. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and Mr. Morten Østergaard. So I'm gonna ask everyone to be in place by 2:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130015	We'll resume the meeting. There are comments to Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, and we have a good 1⁄2 hour left. First, it's sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130030	Thank you. The results count, as was the starting point of the speech, and that is where I will take hold, but on a subject such as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen did not mention it, but I am going to revolve around it a little today, and it is our nature that is feeling really bad. Biodiversity goes back seriously and we do not live up to the commitments we have made in the United Nations in relation to biodiversity, and that worries me, and that worries the alternative very much. I would just like to get the rapporteur's reflections on whether something more needs to be done, so we have some results that count so that we can look our children and grandchildren in the eye and we actually leave a nature and an environment for those we can be familiar with and not a worse planet than the one we have been allowed to take over from our parents. So I would like to see the rapporteur's reflections on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130133	Thank you for that, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist. I very much agree with the premise that it is not only when we talk about economics and opportunities that we must pass on a better country to our children than what we took over ourselves. These are also the opportunities we have to look after nature and to, excuse the expression, romp us in the Danish nature, and that is also why the government has adopted a natural package, precisely with a focus on greater biodiversity, including untouched forest. It is a priority, it is important and we must maintain it. We also have to keep the balance that says that we have to look after our environment in a way that does not push the problems out of Denmark but does not remove them. There has to be this balance: we appeal to companies to limit their environmental impact, yes, but do not make it so difficult that they pull the plug and say that they then move to another country where they can get rid of things more easily.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130238	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130239	But when I speak of nature, I believe that something could be done that has nothing to do with companies, for example. the state forest: How can one leave it untouched so that it becomes wild nature? This is not something that costs a great deal in relation to our public finances, and it is not something that affects any companies, but it helps to increase biodiversity, and that is actually what I am trying to ask for: can we not go a little more ambitious in relation to this? Because it is not something that affects our businesses, and it is not something that affects anyone, but it is actually something that benefits all of us, so we still have insects and we have wild fauna and so on. in our nature in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130318	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130319	If you could set some quotas for which insects it was, it could be nice; there are a few of them I would like to be without. As I mentioned earlier, the government has implemented a package of 25 000 hectares of nature, as I recall, untouched forests, and that is precisely something that offers some of the opportunities that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist is requesting. When I developed my answer, it was simply because I could look at the clock that I had more time to talk in and actually wanted the point that we cannot just export the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130350	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130352	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. There were a lot of statistics coming up. This could also be the other way round and say that the Left has about got its own policy through, for every 59 years, Mr President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has said that the Left knows where you have. It could also be said that the Left has deteriorated welfare, because every 13 times the Prime Minister has said that we must take good care of our welfare societies. Therefore, there may be a lack of statistical consistency between words and speech, and that is why, as some of my colleagues have also mentioned, I would like to ask about this 0.3% growth. in public consumption. For the Left must be the only ones left in this country who insist that you can maintain just the level we know today by 0.3 per cent. Then Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen does not explain us once more: how can we maintain just the current level of care for the elderly, of childcare and of other core welfare areas by 0.3 per cent.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130459	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130500	Thank you. What is proposed in the 2025 plan presented by the government yesterday is public growth of 0.3%. plus the reforms that we can agree on in here. So that's the 3% plus. So there are possibilities that it may be a larger amount. In addition, I must also say that we have one of the largest public sectors in the world, and I think it is good. Is there room for improvement? Yes, there is. A number of initiatives have also been taken by the government there. After all, the newly appointed Minister for Public Innovation is one of those who needs to look at how we will be more effective, and I think that this is good initiatives to take, and I think that we need to look all the way around. But if you do not also recognise that you can get better, that you can get better if you, for example, get better. automatically assume that a new elderly person requires a new nursing home. So there are some things in the equation that have not been included.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130600	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130601	Thank you. But these reforms are birds on the roof. Well, with those reforms, we don't know what's gonna happen. It refers to 2021, and it refers to reforms that are not a majority in favour of the Folketing, and that is why it is a bit to cheat on the emphasis to say: yes, yes, but it may be that we get something more to do good with. The truth is that the Danish economy is doing very well and therefore there is no need for reforms unless you want to spend the money on tax reliefs. There is actually room in the economy to ensure just the current level of welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130640	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130641	I simply have to attack this premise, which is called spending money on tax cuts. Tax relief is money that people earn by working hard, and I think it is a good idea for people to keep some more of the money they work for, and there we just have political disagreements. I think that, when you come home from work, we need to strengthen what is called crowns in our pockets. Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen does not think so, and that is the way it is. We mean something different. I think it is fair that we should ensure a better balance between going to work and having something for ourselves. SF doesn't think so. This was thought to be the case when you sat in government for a brief comment, but you no longer think so. Boom!
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130716	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130718	Thank you. I thought it was liberating to hear Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen talks about his ambitions on behalf of the next generation, i.e. what it really is that will drive us when we come to Parliament and try to shoulder our responsibilities. But then Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. And there I might, if I were polemical, say, "How's that going?" But I will not do that, instead of saying that we should perhaps consider having greater ambitions than that. Because what I can see is that when something has happened, when there have been some real moves, it is when we have had a government that has been able to communicate broad cooperation. And that is why my question is: why is it that the Left and the rest of the government have so much to do now that the negotiations on what remains of the government's economic policy, which were presented yesterday, are, among other things, about. voluntary later withdrawal from the labour market, must take place alone with the Danish People's Party? Is it because Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen has now stopped wanting to ensure broad cooperation in the Folketing so that the solutions will be sustainable? Because I don't think the next generation will be happy about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130832	I actually said "I hope; it was at least my intention " to do the opposite of that, sir. Morten Østergaard claims that I would hate to look my children and grandchildren in the eye and tell them that I didn't try just because I couldn't count to 90. For this government has been, and then you can be merry about whether it is all the ambitions that are being fulfilled. No, it's not, but it shouldn't be an excuse for not having ambition. We have, and I think it's good. And I actually think that's the joy Mr. Morten Østergaard shares, i.e. to have ambitions in the economic field. When it comes to negotiations, I would say that what is the case with regard to who is called upon to negotiate is that the Danish People's Party is part of job reform 1 and is therefore naturally included in the negotiations on pensions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130925	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531130926	Some, silly, are tempted to say. Well, what does that have to do with each other? What is true is that we had some ambitions that we did not call for negotiations on, but pulled the plug on last weekend. Then it has been said that instead of trying to negotiate, one will now only look at the possibility of making people voluntarily stay longer on the labour market. And then I just say that we have put forward some proposals, and I think that many of them are very similar to what the government has done. So what is it that makes it seem as if you have an economic policy where all the wheels are flat, and then you take the keys out of the ignition and you want to put them in the hands of the one who has punctured the wheels, instead of asking if there were no more who wanted to help us get back on the road?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131015	Well, I think we're just talking past each other. Because I think it is important to have ambitions, and frankly I think that the government's proposal and the government's basis exhibit very, very fine. You also have to be able to count to 90. It should not prevent you from having ambitions, but it can prevent you from implementing your policy, and realism also has to be recognised from time to time. It may be that we had a common desire that we should have a higher retirement age for healthy and bodily Danes, but we were just not enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131047	Then it's mr. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131049	Thank you. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen would like to speak to Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Nicolai Wammen does not disclose how much relief the top tax government will give now, when it proposes it, nor where the money for it should come from. But what we know is that it is socially wrong in that we are down to that it is 10%. most well-paid Danes who will pay top tax when the current tax reform is phased in. And it is also geographically wrong because the concentration of those who have the high incomes is not very much found in the outermost regions of the country, but is located where economic development is already going quite well in Copenhagen, north of Copenhagen, North Zealand, etc. After all, there are people in the rapporteur's own party who have seen and read this, that is to say, that is how the situation is. So I'd really like to hear sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, whether he agrees with his party colleagues The mayors of the Left in Tønder, Thisted, Læsø and Jammerbugt Municipalities, when they said to Jyllands-Posten on 24 August last year that they think it is wrong to lighten the top tax because it does not create growth or jobs and benefits their parts of Denmark? Is that a point of view, sir? Jakob Ellemann-Jensen agrees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131201	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131204	Sir. Jesper Petersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131207	But that is perhaps an answer, as Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen will clarify a little when he gets the opportunity again in a moment. Because you can't escape the fact that we're down to 10 per cent. the most well-paid Danes, and that it is thus a small group of those who already earn the most, who will benefit from it if the government makes new top tax reliefs. The rapporteur cannot dispute this, just as it would be difficult to dispute what lies in the answers given by the government itself, where it is that people live and where it is that you want to push for economic development, namely where it already goes best north of Copenhagen, in Copenhagen, while in these areas I have mentioned, and other rural municipalities in Denmark, you will not get that benefit and where the citizens do not earn so much money. That's not right.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131247	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131249	Yes, yes, but now I answered the question I was asked about. I even replied exceptionally accurately. And I can put it a little bit over it and say that if top tax relief is something that is so absolutely horrible for Social Democracy, why on earth was it that they were implemented themselves? Top tax relief was granted for 1.9 billion. kr., when you were in government. As I recall, sir. Jesper Petersen proved SFs then, but then SF was also part of the government. That was when top tax relief was granted. We thought that was a good thing and we supported it and voted in favour of it. We still think it's good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131324	Then it's mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131327	Thank you for that, and thank you for a funny speech. It is a little sad to have to go on afterwards and then destroy the mood, because in reality there may not be so much to laugh about. If we look at yesterday's government's 2025 plan, I understand that the rapporteur does not want to say how much we want to reduce the top tax, because the plan says that we want to reduce the top tax so much that we get a job offer that increases by about 10,000 people. I am not an economic wise man, but I can see from an earlier reply from the Minister for Finance that if you remove the top tax completely, it will pay approx. 8,300 more people in employment. In other words, although the rapporteur will not go into exactly how much the top tax should be reduced, we can read from the government's own policy that it is a massive reduction in the top tax that the government has imposed. I just think that's too bad. I represent voters in Southern Denmark, and down there you just have to say quite clearly that they are not going to get anything economic out of the policy that the government is pursuing here. They are going to be the victims of, (First Vice-President Thank you! ) the government, with its policy, is distorting Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131435	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur. When I stand up, it is because the speaking time has been exceeded quite a lot. That doesn't just apply to sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen is all the way around the hall. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131445	Thank you. I simply believe that Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has to read that plan one more time. It didn't come until yesterday, and I've only managed to get it skimmed, so everything left. But that context is simply notoriously wrong. The point of saying that a group of people are victims because some others are given a tax credit excuse me, but I just don't think that's a fair way of looking at it. In general, I think that the Danes deserve the absolutely bourgeois welfare: more money in the pockets of the money you go to work to earn. And that goes for the top, and that goes for the bottom. If I am finally going to find some victims, who were the victims of the tax relief that the Social Democratic Party was responsible for? Isn't it tempting to ask?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131539	Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131540	One can simply look at the figures that, with the job offer that the government wants to get out of the top tax relief, it is a massive top tax relief that is being proposed. And as to who is served with what, you can ask the mayors of the Left. In Thisted, for example, Lene Jensen says very clearly: an area like mine is better served by relaxing in other ways. So the Left's own hinterland says very clearly to the government: We want to take a different course for Denmark; we want to work to a greater extent to create a Denmark in balance. And for that, top tax relief simply does not help. They go specifically to North Zealand. They do not benefit the other areas. I cannot understand why this does not give rise to any greater doubt on its own policy than the one expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131625	With that understanding, sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen has, of the publication published yesterday, I understand that Mr. Nor does Christian Rabjerg Madsen understand this either, for frankly there is no link between labour supply and top tax, as Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen claims. And the thing about saying what has become such a new social democratic slogan from 1 May that this government is not doing anything for the balance in Denmark is some notorious nonsense: the relocation of state jobs, the relaxation of the law on plans, the agricultural package I could go on. This government is doing quite a lot to secure the balance in Denmark, and we are actually proud of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131702	Mrs. Johanne-Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131703	Thank you. Can the rapporteur of the Left guarantee that the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Government had not been warned by his official work either orally or in writing that it would be contrary to the law to forcibly separate the young asylum couples without making an individual assessment of each case?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131734	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131735	As I understand the question, and I think I do, it is based on a series of articles in the newspaper Politiken, which claims that there should be an e-mail correspondence between the Ministry and the Minister. The relevant e-mail correspondence has the newspaper Politiken not wanted to put forward. So that is to say, you have some assumption that a minister is guilty until proven otherwise. This is not how the judicial system works in Denmark. Nor do I think that we should allow Denmark to be politically linked. I am confident that the Minister, when she says that she had not been informed of this, has not been informed of this. What is this really about? You use the term "child bride." It's not real in all cases. Sometimes it's about a 17-year-old married to a 19-year-old. But in some cases it is also about some very, very young girls who are married to some important older men. Should our starting point be that we don't want it? And then you can deviate from it. Or should our starting point be that we accept that and then we can depart from it? I am a warm supporter of the first. We don't want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131842	Mrs. Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131844	It's basically very simple. According to the Ombudsman, it is contrary to the law to forcibly separate these couples without first making an individual assessment, so that account can be taken of precisely the circumstances mentioned by the rapporteur here on the platform. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration issued an instruction in a press release stating that no individual assessment was required. I understand that the rapporteur here can guarantee this, I understand that the Minister had not been warned that it was contrary to the law. If it turns out that the Minister was warned, then the Minister can sit as Minister for the Left...
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131931	Then the question is over and now we need answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531131935	It is quite true that this recommendation from the Ombudsman came, and it is also quite correct that Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen forgot very skilfully to mention that it was corrected immediately when it arrived. I am, in fact, pleased that we have a minister in this area who is based on the child, which in some cases is the case, and who says that we have an obligation to protect these people. I think that the starting point of saying, no, you cannot be together is the right one and that from there you can dispense. I think that is the right way to deal with this. And if the Minister can stay in his seat? It's the PM who decides that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132013	Then it's mr. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132016	Thank you for an excellent speech as always. I have just come from a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, where I am very, very disappointed on behalf of our democracy and, above all, the rapporteur's party, because we have all decided that we should have a tax commission. After one-and-a-half years of wrangling or perhaps almost lack of the same and a peace of the castle, which did not make much sense for us to have examined this in depth, there is now a majority in the Parliamentary Chamber who wants a tax commission and we have been invited to negotiations tomorrow. I look forward to that, and I shall go into it constructively and with my forehead upright. But today it has been said no to the fact that we have to deal with the motion for a resolution that we had passed through Christiansborg before a majority in the Danish Parliament came for this, a resolution that should have been on Friday. One might think that this should just be because we are already in the process, but this was the only time when we had the chance to debate this in the open. Now we go into a closed room and negotiate it, i.e. negotiate who should be examined, how it should be examined. Could it not have been imagined that we had an open debate on Friday? The rapporteur's party has said no to this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132122	Now I did not attend the relevant meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, since I just had a short break from it and had to resign on behalf of nature and eat some lunch and stuff like that. So what has been said at that meeting, for obvious reasons, I cannot really say anything about it. I think it's a good thing that we get this tax commission. I agree that there has been a proposal on the part of the Alternative, but now we have this tax commission, so that, while we look ahead and ensure that we restore SKAT, we restore confidence in SKAT, we also see what has gone wrong, so that we can learn from it. Of course we must be able to debate it in public space, and that is what we have the opportunity to do right now. So just ask.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132206	Sir. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132210	I would like to give my support to the current Minister for Tax and the work on looking forward. There has just been a very big and blamy lack of desire to look backwards across the Danish Parliament's parties and actually get this examined to the bottom. That is what we want now, but I believe that there is a pretty great demand among the people and also in the alternative for this not only to be done in a closed room, and the confidence that what we are getting out of it is unpoliticised and impartial, there may well be doubts about that. But let us hope that my doubts are put to shame and that it will be a blissful course where we get to the bottom of it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132244	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132246	Well, I kind of share sir. René Gade's hopes for this, namely that we can get everything into the light and so on, but I also have to say that there are also a lot of national audit reports, many notes have been made, many studies have been made on this in advance, and if there is something that has not been uncovered there, I certainly hope that it will be unveiled. However, I also think that we should devote a little more of our energies to looking ahead and restoring the confidence that we both very much agree is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132318	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132320	Thank you. The rapporteur said several times that this government has ambitions. The Prime Minister said in his speech: a Denmark in balance. I wonder a little on whose behalf one is ambitious. One might be tempted to say: Tell me where you live, and I'll tell you how many tax cuts you get. When you look at, on whose behalf this government has ambitions, I cannot help wondering whether you are ambitious on behalf of the many unskilled people who need to become skilled. Are you ambitious on behalf of the very many young people who fall through the education system? On whose behalf are we ambitious in giving priority to top tax relief?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132406	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132407	It's hard not to be a little grandiose, so excuse me. We are ambitious on behalf of Denmark. We are ambitious on behalf of Denmark. We are ambitious on behalf of future generations. Finally, if we are to look at when we will have a tax relief and when we will not have a tax relief, it seems harder to get it if we are a social democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132431	Mrs. Yildiz Akdogan.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132434	That was a very interesting answer. The rapporteur says that one is ambitious on behalf of Denmark, but yet the rapporteur does not agree with his own party colleagues, for example. from Thisted and Læsø, who do not agree that top tax relief is just what you need right now. It is even believed that it does not create jobs. That's why I'm surprised when I ask Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, on whose behalf one is ambitious, and the only answer is that just because social democracy is not as visionary, it does not mean that the policy of the Left is not good enough. I would like to hear: on whose behalf are you ambitious?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132510	I simply answered that both magnificently and precisely before: Denmark! For Denmark! That is where we are ambitious, that is where our ambitions lie. This is the opportunity to give the next generation better opportunities than Mrs Yildiz Akdogan and myself have had, and that does not say very little. We've had great opportunities in this country. That's what our kids need. They have to be bigger, they have to be better. Do we have ambitions to lighten the tax at work? Yes, we do. We think people deserve to keep more of the money they work for. We think that's a good idea. Do I think that social democratic policy is worth something? No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132547	Then it's mr. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132548	In Silkeborg there is a 13-year-old girl who had today been expelled from Denmark, while her parents were allowed to stay. Now the matter has been postponed due to a complaint, but the expulsion comes on the basis of the tightening that the Left did together with the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats last year, when children can divorce their parents. I simply find it so difficult to understand that it is a liberal value anno 2017 that the state must come with some officials and judge that a child cannot be integrated and on that basis separate families from each other. - Sir... Jakob Ellemann-Jensen explain to some of us who have a liberal mind, why the state should have that power towards families and, in particular, small children?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132639	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132641	I am familiar with the specific case, as is Mr. Andreas Steenberg only from the media, and I cannot and will not say anything about it. From what I read, it seems to be an unhappy cause. I don't know it in detail, I hope that's okay. One of the things that has made this legislation necessary is the cases we have seen about reeducational journeys, where you send your children back to a former home country to ensure that the children do not become too Danish. These are rules that have been necessary to counter this. I find that unhappy. I think it is very, very sad for those children, but I also think it is necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132728	Sir. Andreas Steenberg.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132729	I think I know the answer to this question, but are there any plans in the government to change this law so that we don't see such obvious cases, I think, where it's wrong for families to divorce each other? Under the government of which I was a part, some changes were made to the law, which was intended to ensure that we avoided these absurd cases. Do you have any plans to look at this law again, or do you just think it's going the way it should?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132759	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132800	Do you think it's working out the way it's supposed to? Again, I must say that I do not know about this matter in depth. Mr. Neither did Andreas Steenberg. We know it from some terrible and sad headlines. I do not think we should judge anything by that. Sir. Andreas Steenberg says that the government, as Mr. Andreas Steenberg was part of changed rules. Yeah, I'll say that. That is why we have now made 56 restrictions on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132825	Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132828	All professional organisations organising health workers, Danske Patients, the umbrella organisation for a series of patient associations, all regional presidents, including, as you know, a series of Left Politicians, participants at the Danske Regions General Assembly, including a lot of Left Politicians, have all said that this productivity requirement, which has been rolled out over the health sector for many years, must be abolished. The border has simply been reached. It is now running so fast that the patients suffer. 9 out of 10 doctors and nurses say this has a negative impact on patient treatment. Thus, every year, employees are required to perform 2%. more, without funding being included. It simply means that they have to run stronger. What have they not understood so that they do not, as Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531132939	This very specific 2-percent requirement, etc. After all, this is something the Minister of Innovation is looking at, i.e. whether it is the most appropriate way of doing this. But I have to say that what is said about people running faster, cutting faster, feeding faster, etc. is a hoax; that is not true. Well, fortunately, we have become significantly more effective in health care. If you were to have bypass surgery in the past, you would have to excuse the graphics that are practically cut from top to toe, curled the ribs aside, and carried out an operation that today is almost done outpatiently with a camera from the groin. In other words, it brings some savings, it brings some efficiency, and we also have to take them with us. I think it is right that we should demand each other that, when we become more skilled, we also make use of it so that we can re-prioritize that money and channel it in so that it is used better and wiser.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133037	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133039	Well, now that the employees, the patient associations, etc. etc. etc., that is, when the limit is reached? Could we not reach a point where a new steering mechanism emphasized whether we had confidence in the regions, i.e. regional politicians, but not least the employees of the whole health service? Was it not a good form of steering mechanism to introduce?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133117	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133120	Well, this very basic idea that we need to have greater confidence in the skilled people who work in health care and in the regions in general, I very much agree with Mr. Henning Hyllested in. That's also why the Minister of Innovation is looking at these things. That is also why a management commission and a number of other measures have been set up, in other words to look at this. After all, it is not a target that is cast in concrete. We need to measure right, and we need to measure relevant. So, yes, of course we're listening to this. I just think it's just as stubborn to claim that we can't get any better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133156	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133158	Thank you. And following on from Mr. Henning Hyllested's question, I might well follow up on the question of the productivity requirement in hospitals. Because now that the regions have invented the camera, which can be driven from the groin, so that it can be avoided to make large surgical wounds; now that the regions have put in place special plans which make it impossible to find a smarter way of distributing patients; and now that all the productivity solutions have been used up and there is nothing else left, does the rapporteur not agree with me and the regions that it is only left to run stronger and stronger, just as the doctors, the employees and the regions say?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133244	As far as I remember, the SF had a Minister for Health in the previous government who, by the way, did not abolish the productivity requirement. And we can see, when we look around, that there are big differences in productivity. But let me also arrest the premise that now we have invented everything, that now the world simply cannot develop anymore, because I do not think the world is that way. If Henry Ford had given people what they asked for, they would have gotten faster horses and not a car. In other words, we are constantly evolving, and with regard to the claim that the fact that we have now invented a camera that we can bring in through the groin means that development is so complete and that nothing else is going to happen, I have at least seen science fiction films enough to say: I do not really believe that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133337	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133338	We are tempted to ask the rapporteur whether he has any concrete proposals in addition. SF agrees that waiting lists have certainly been reduced during the period of work on this productivity requirement and that a lot of changes in the whole health sector have had a really good effect. But when the employees tell them that they must actually run stronger and stronger; when a chief doctor in the maternity department resigns, because the DRG tariff is now so low that you can no longer solve the tasks properly and then the rapporteur mentions exactly trust in the skilled employees, where confidence is then given in relation to this call that it must be enough with the efficiency requirement of 2%.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133419	As I said in my answer before, it is also something that is being looked at. It's something we're looking at in terms of whether you measure correctly and whether it's the right place to measure. Of course, the regions must also assume their share of the task. The government has initiated this cohesion reform. There are, among other things: a management review, and I mentioned before the management commission. I therefore believe that these are some of the tools that need to be looked at in connection with this rather than just saying: we cannot now run stronger. No, but you can damn well look smarter. There are some things you can do anyway.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133453	The last brief remark in this round is from Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133457	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur for the speech. What I would like to ask is a slightly different subject, namely that we recently had a hearing in the Financial Committee on the calculation models, and whether they are really good enough when we have to anticipate what a change in behaviour is and what a dynamic effect it has when doing something in the ministry. And at the latest, yesterday, we had the wise men's report, where they have themselves looked at the dynamic effects of hiring more educators in day care institutions. Then you can actually see that it has a positive effect in the long term, including on the supply of work. So my question to the rapporteur is: will the government take the initiative to make sure that money is spent on the budget law so that we can initiate studies that allow us to expand our accounting models in the Ministry of Finance so that they take into account both the social bottom line and the environmental bottom line?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133556	I think you have to answer 'no' to such a specific question. But the calculation models used in the Ministry of Finance must, by their very nature, be as accurate as possible. We have to have a common way of calculating, and if we can improve it so that it is more accurate, then we have to do it. My economic degree is long enough for me simply not to stand here and learn about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133627	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133628	But then I can ask another question: will the rapporteur help to take the initiative to allocate funds to the Finance Act to do this? Because what the wise men are saying, and which very clearly emerged in our hearing in the Committee on Finance, both from one side and from the other, was that there is an imbalance today. Because we are really good at predicting dynamic effects of e.g. relief of tax at work, etc., and the consequences of this. But we clearly lack something on the second part, including both on the environmental bottom line and on the social bottom line.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133704	I just have to appeal to the Ministry of Finance to handle the finances and deal with the other things elsewhere. This is not a neglect of the areas mentioned by Mrs Josephine Fock, but let us deal with them separately. In the Ministry of Finance, the country's finances are being dealt with, and if the arithmetic models there can become wiser, I am quite sure that it will be kept under constant review and adjusted accordingly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133733	In doing so, we would like to thank Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. The hour has passed and we welcome Mrs Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531133749	Thank you. Recently, I saw a scene on TV that's been hanging around a little bit. It was a reporter in high sunshine it was probably in a country a little further away from here that ran for an open white sports car while he tried to shout questions after the driver of the car. The questions were therefore about the 200 million. kr., which the man behind the wheel owes to the Danish state in tax. That picture says a lot about the situation we have in our tax administration. It's gone really, really wrong. And a lot of people have gotten away with not paying the taxes they had to pay. More than 12 billion. kr. has been wrongly paid in the dividend case; there are 80 billion. kr. in debt that we have to give up recovering, even if we could have scratched in a lot of it, and that is just a few of the scandals. At the same time, Mr. and Mrs Denmark, on the other hand, faithfully their tax every month, while they must see that care for the elderly is getting worse, that there are fewer educators about the young in kindergarten, that the safety net, if you are ill or affected by unemployment, is deteriorating year after year. It's gonna be so exciting when you're watching a TV show like that. I don't feel that way just because we in the Enhedslisten have been warning about it for years. Also employees, professional organisations and even State auditors have been warning about the future problems of the SKAT for years. Who's to blame for that? It has useless politicians to say it as it is. This is what happens when you save in an area on the basis of expected and anticipated efficiency gains that you think will come before they turn out to be real. These are cuts and layoffs which only in the Treasury's dream spreadsheet can be ineffective. Finally, in the area of taxation, at least a majority has emerged in this House at Christiansborg that one might as well have asked some quack in a travelling carnival with tarot cards and tea leaves. It would have been thought that the political system would have become wise of harm. But that is not the case. While holes in the SKAT are being patched up after a failed strategy, there is a political majority in here that prevents us from stopping the same disaster course in the health system. In hospitals they also live under the imaginary reality of the Ministry of Finance. The spreadsheets say you can streamline 2%. This is what we demand of the hospitals, without at all weighing up the consequences in the operating rooms, in the maternity wards for the safety of patients, for the working environment of the employees. And nurses and doctors, patient associations, even the cleaning staff warn that it's going really, really wrong. Despite the warnings, despite what has been seen with the tax system, one still continues. I think it was Einstein who said it most precisely: the definition of insanity is that you take the same action over and over again and expect another result. But while the government openly acknowledges that they would like to see if it could not be done, if we just try one more time, it is differently foggy with the Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. In fact, the two parties have the monkey, so to speak. They say they are against the productivity requirement, but both parties nevertheless promise that they will vote in favour of a municipal and regional agreement which is being negotiated over these days, regardless of whether the demand still exists. It's like you have nothing to do with it. Of course you do. We're gonna have to vote it through in here in the Folketing. Especially the Social Democracy is hiding behind this mysterious spell that you have to find another system of governance before you can replace it here. But that's ridiculous, frankly. Nor are we continuing the savings in SKAT, just because we have not found a new budgetary management mechanism there. We've all heard the stories about the consequences in the hospitals. They're new parents sent home a few hours after birth. It's patients who don't get proper guidance. It is employees who do not have time to comfort and provide care and explain what is going on, or check all the patients in the rooms. That is the consequences of the reduction. At the same time, it is also a picture of something more general in our welfare societies. In fact, it is an image of a consistent under-funding of our welfare. These are crooked political decisions which not only affect hospitals but also affect the municipalities, the kindergartens, the care of the elderly, the public schools. The government will continue to do so with the 2025 plan that we have seen presented yesterday. There is far too low growth in the public sector. In other words, the insecurity we have all felt in one way or another will only get worse. It creates inequality, because those who have the money can pay off, and it is again used as an excuse for more savings and efficiency, because look at it: the public is not doing very well. The money that is right now in the good economic situation should be spent on changing it and not doing more of it. We must also return to retirement age. One of the more festive occasions in recent times has been that the government has dropped plans to raise the retirement age further. This is important for the many skilled and unskilled workers who work in hard physical jobs. But in the gentle rush of victory, it may sound as if the retirement age is not going to rise. That's not true. In fact, the government's proposal for a further 1⁄2 year increase in retirement age is very little compared to what the government parties, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party together contributed to adopting back in 2006. It was the so-called welfare reconciliation. I remember that for these about... Ten years ago, we are discussing exactly the settlement with an acquaintance I have. He's a blacksmith. We were looking at a schedule of our expected retirement age together. We're about the same age. He started teaching as a blacksmith when he was 16. I didn't, I can tell you. But we can both leave when we're 72 years old. His only comment on the schedule was then when he was in the early 20s: I already have a pain in my knees. Like Mrs. Mette Frederiksen and Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl has said far and wide, a statutory retirement age is not something that only hits the average. It also affects all those who, to quote Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl: is worn out and actually needs a retirement age so that they can get away from the labour market. I'm at the party. I understand that what happened is a good thing, namely that the government has dropped its plans. But now the two parties must also show that they are willing to follow it to the end. They must cancel the settlement and show the many people in the hard physical jobs that they have talked so much about, those who carry suitcases at the airport, those who clean at night, sweep streets in the morning, those they have talked so much about and that they actually mean it. The retirement age should not increase, even with what has already been agreed. Will also see now that the promises made both in 2006 and in 2011 do not last. These were promises in agreements about the later retirement age that the money should be scraped together because we had to spend it on welfare. According to the government's 2025 plan, the money will be spent on tax cuts, and this must be an opportunity for the conciliation to be terminated. The Enhedslisten wants to strengthen our welfare society. For us, it is greater and better security. This means a retirement age which depends on the number of years you have been on the labour market and a right to leave before you become completely worn out. It also means hospitals, kindergartens, proper care for the elderly, where there is time for care, no matter what purse you have. This means that if you lose your job or suffer from illness, you should not be short of rent money. This means that we need to think about future generations. Their security also matters. We must also ensure that there is both clean drinking water and a proper marine environment and, above all, a sustainable planet to pass on to future generations. Last but not least, it also means for us security. We must take care of the people who are fleeing from war and destruction and terror in this world. This applies both to those who sit far away in the so-called neighbourhoods and lack our help, and to those who come here and knock on our door. We are one of the richest countries in the world. We can afford welfare and a good working life for everyone if we distribute wealth more fairly. It is and remains a political choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531134754	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First, it's sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531134759	Thank you, Mrs Pernille Skipper, for the rapporteur's speech. My question to Mrs Pernille Skipper is: Is it not the Enhedslisten who is making fools of the Danes? So, quite frankly, one has now had a period of discussion of red lines and one has blown up to get a lot of media coverage and given the Danes the impression that if there is a new government led by the Social Democratic Party, one will begin to draw some red lines. When you look at the contents of these red lines, you will see, among other things. We must not break international conventions and we must not significantly increase inequality. In other words, these are exactly the sort of elastic words that are suitable for getting a little media time to tell us that now you are blowing up against Mr. Nicolai Wammen and Mrs Mette Frederiksen and other Social Democrats, but when it comes down to it and you are asked what the content is, there is no content in it. Because no one imagines that there will be a majority in this Parliament to break the international conventions or to increase inequality markedly in the sense that Mrs Pernille Skipper attaches to it because you may well, I understand on Pernille Skipper, increase inequality a little, without it doing anything. So what is it at all? Is it just to get some media time? And it has succeeded very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531134915	Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531134917	I think sir... Kristian Thulesen Dahl may have misunderstood. Because I know it is a little different in the Danish People's Party, where it is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and a few more who decide everything, and then others just have to straighten in. But in Enhedslisten we discuss things like these, and that means that this is an open discussion. Those quotes, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl so fine has found, is about something I've said one could imagine. That's not how it's gonna be. That is the one thing that needs to be said. What we are discussing is whether we are facing a new government that we hope will come and we hope to put Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl outside influence in this regard, no doubt it can go so far that it will be necessary for us to actually pull the curtain completely and say that now the voters must put the Folketing back together again, and that is a violent thing. I think so, too, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl knows. Where exactly the lines are set, I don't know. I don't think we can say that in advance either. That cannot be said until you are in the situation, but to discuss it means something to us. There is no one in the Enhedslisten who says we have to decide everything. Nobody is suggesting that everything should be done without us, but there may be a limit to how far we will put up with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135024	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135025	It is impossible to say until you are in the situation, says Mrs Pernille Skipper. But isn't that what Enhedslisten claims to the Danish people that you are doing, that is, that you want to define red lines in advance and say that if you cross the red lines, there will be consequences? Then Mrs Pernille Skipper now says that you cannot really say that until you are in the situation. Does it not show quite clearly, at least with the quotations I read from, which are from Mrs Pernille Skipper's own statements, that if they are used as so-called red lines, they are pure blue lights? Does Mrs Pernille Skipper not agree with me that there is nothing in it? It is just a question of trying to bloat up and say that now you want to do this or that, but that you basically formulate yourself in such a way that you are sure that you will never be in that situation in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135109	Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135111	I think, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl is going to read a little more of those quotes than those he just got stabbed in the hands of the employees on the way down to the hall. Some of the things we have also spoken about in the press as examples of those situations are precisely some of the things that happened under the previous government. That is, for example, the case. a tax reform that was made with the right hand side of the Parliamentary Chamber, which really increased the inequality that took away from folk pensioners and unemployed people to raise the top tax limit, in other words to give tax relief to some of those who have the most. This is one of the examples that we are certainly discussing now, that is to say, if such a situation were to arise again, it would mean that the carpet would be pulled. But again, it's not me alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135150	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135152	Thank you. And thank you to Mrs Pernille Skipper for the rapporteur's speech. I'll continue a little from the same place where Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl stopped, because I've also noticed this slightly tumorous rhetoric, among other things. from the National Meeting of Enhedslisten, where it was also done here with the so-called red lines or rubber bands, or what we should call them, to a very big theme, and including Mrs Pernille Skipper has said: the new thing is that we are going to work with some other parliamentary tools, everything is in play, there is nothing that is excluded. Summa summarum I cannot imagine that this discussion will end with us doing as we have always done, because we saw how it went last. That is also one of the points that Mrs Pernille Skipper has now presented. So I would like to be a little more specific than Mrs Pernille Skipper and say: can the Enhedslisten imagine, after a parliamentary election, having to support a government that will continue the cash aid ceiling and the integration benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135252	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135254	Some of the things that we're discussing and that Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent report. That's one thing. One of the things we are discussing is a requirement for the government base, that is to say, whether, in the context of the formation of government, some demands should be made, as other parties have done in the past. It could well be imagined that such a discussion on the ceiling for cash aid was going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135331	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135332	Yes, one can easily imagine that a discussion may come up, but excuse me when Mrs Pernille Skipper talks about this with several of her own party colleagues around her, it's a very distinctive red line, and you'll certainly not put up with anything. Well, it's a slightly different rhetoric, and it seems a bit like the blue light, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl actually describes it as. Another thing is this: the inequality is not allowed to increase significantly. What's significant? How much is that? How much are we talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135401	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135402	I cannot understand what is different in what I am actually saying now than what I have said in the media. It's like word for word the same thing. So it is a discussion that we have and some of what we are discussing are among other things. I should like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals. I would like to know whether we should call for a ceiling on cash aid to be removed because it puts thousands of people into poverty. Some of the things we're discussing are red lines. I think that no matter what I answer these questions, Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen feels that he has been strengthened in his faith, and I can only say that we are continuing the discussion in the Enhedslisten and that it is not Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, who governs our parliamentary strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135443	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135444	Thanks for the speech. In Altinget on 23 May, there was an interview with a professor of health economics at the University of Copenhagen called Signild Vallgåra, and the interview has the headline • Professor: Drop the stories about a hospital service in crisis. She says many things, and she says, among other things, that in the last many years, the supply of resources to health care has been higher than the growth of patient contacts. It's the highest science that speaks here. Where does Enhedslisten have its information when science cannot confirm that it is really bad and that there are cuts in health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135535	I vaguely recall that article, and I also remember that the professor's figures are not really true. I do not have them with me here, so I would very much like to find them afterwards, but I simply do not believe that those figures are valid. That's one side of it. The other side of that is that if it were really the highest science that also kept out in reality, it would probably have been a little more than a single article, and then we would probably not have stood with doctors, nurses, patients, relatives, everyone who has something to do with health care every day, who says this has serious consequences: doctors, nurses who leave the public health system because they professionally cannot vouch for it; patients who, because they happen to be so lucky to have money for it, go to the private for proper treatment. So it is in another world where the health system is not in crisis. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135633	Sir. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135634	After all, there have also been many debates on the concept of fake news during election campaigns abroad. What Enhedslisten brings to squares is fake news. It is simply completely contrary to what the researchers say. It is the same discussion that has been held during the US presidential campaign. Doesn't that type of fake news undermine respect for politicians?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135658	I've heard the Liberal Alliance's use of that fake news before. That's the kind of thing the Liberal Alliance does when people say something they don't agree with. Then it's just fake news. It actually reminds me pretty much of the way Trump does it. He also stands around with: Av, journalist, stupid reporter, doesn't like fake news. I mean, honestly! But I'd like to know where all those many, many scientists besides the one I think have wrong figures... but we can just take that afterwards... stand in line to deny not just some of what I say, but what patients, doctors, employees, even the cleaning staff say there is the problem in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135733	Thank you. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135734	There are many things on which we disagree, but there are also a great many things on which we agree on a need to increase investment in the green transition, a desire to invest more in the education and upbringing of children and young people, in other words a number of places where we think more needs to be done than is done today. And if we look at the room for manoeuvre created by some of the reforms on which we then disagreed, that is enough to ensure that we can maintain the welfare as we know it. And there is my question to Mrs Pernille Skipper: is it not true that if we do not find new sources of income, on which we will probably also disagree, then with the room for manoeuvre we have right now, we cannot have ambitions to want a whole lot more without having to cut down elsewhere in the welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135824	First of all, I would like to question very much whether all the room for manoeuvre has been created by the very anti-social reforms that took place under the previous government. I do not think that is entirely clear; on the contrary, many of them may have meant that people have kept the money and that domestic demand has lagged behind in relation to what it could have been. So it's a big discussion. But if it's what I understand, sir... Morten Østergaard asks me whether we need to create more and more growth all the time, I would say that it really depends on what kind of growth we are talking about. Because we have a planet like that, which Mr. Morten Østergaard also points out that care must be taken, and it cannot continue to keep us growing more and more. So I actually think that a much bigger task we are facing is to start distributing the cake differently, to use a slightly more popular expression. For inequality is increasing; a large part of the world's resources and wealth, both globally and also in Denmark, accumulates with a few. They could be used much, much wiser, and in this way it would also benefit our planet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135932	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531135933	It was perhaps such a rather complicated interpretation of my question, which actually went on to say that with the funds available, when we look forward to 2025, and if you look at how demography is developing, so that there are more and more older people, that there are greater features in the health and care sector, and that there is also a little growth in the number of children, then there is, in fact, only afford to have the welfare that we know today. And if we have an ambition to invest more public crowns in the green transition, in more educators in the day-care institutions, in better education instead of savings, then there must be either new revenue, or we must cut somewhere else. And that is just what I would like an answer to, i.e. if we do not look at it the same way after all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140011	I am sorry that I simply misunderstood the question for the first time, but then I can confirm that we agree on this: there needs to be some money to ensure investment in welfare. Not least in relation to education, I know that Radicals and Enhedslisten have a great dream that we can do much, much better, so that it is not either the highly educated or the skilled who must have a proper education, but that we can actually give it to everyone. What is Enhedslisten's proposal is that we start to take some of the money that is actually there. The top of our society has received tax relief on tax relief and has only become richer during the economic crisis. There is so much room for redistribution that could be used for education and community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140048	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140052	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. Fortunately, we are a lot of parties, in fact, all parties of the Folketing that have entered into an agreement against tax havens. The unit list is also included. It may be that there were different views as to how far we should go that I think that SF and Enhedslisten agree on • but it was at least a good step forward, and it is also a common ambition between our two parties that we should do what we can. I know. We have to do as much as we can at home, but the big, tough move is going to be international. It is, of course, the OECD, it is best to do so globally, but to a large extent also in the European Union. The EU is filled with tax havens, so it is no use just looking at more exotic skies. Does the Enhedslisten's political rapporteur not agree that the EU is a completely crucial area in terms of securing international agreements against tax havens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140153	This certainly depends on what we mean by absolutely crucial, because I think it would be a disaster if we waited for the measures that we also have the opportunity to launch at national level. I believe that the SF and the Enhedslist agree on this, namely that we should not just sit down and wait for the European Union to do something. Is the European Union an opportunity, a space that can be used to try to combat tax havens? Yes, it certainly is, there is no doubt about that, and we would very much like to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140226	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140228	Thank you. It may be that I misunderstood Mrs Pernille Skipper, but it sounded as if the most important thing was that we did something at home, and then it was also an opportunity to do something in the European Union. Despite the fact that I think that the government can still do more than that, there is also the whole discussion about resources in SKAT, which is central to us, we also have to accept that as nation states we are challenged when you can move huge forms around the world with a mouse click. And there is still the EU of a size, so it matters that we get binding agreements between EU countries. I hope we agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140308	I certainly think that the international dimension is really, really important when it comes to combating tax havens, and the European Union is a player. There are tax havens in Europe which are EU Member States, so I will not contradict that at all. On the contrary, I fully agree. Nor do I think I tried to level out what was most important, and I would even add beyond what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has already said, that we also need even wider cooperation that goes beyond the borders of the European Union, because tax havens are global and that affects globally. It is not only in Denmark that we lose money on it. Some of the poorest in the world really are being robbed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140344	Then it's Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140347	Thank you. I'd like to get back to the red lines and the inequality. After all, the Enhedslisten has just held a national meeting where you should debate and define the party's red lines and what strategy you should like to put forward. So I would like to know if Enhedslisten will continue to support a red government under Mette Frederiksen if it increases inequality, which is one of the reasons why. During the reign of Helle Thorning-Schmidt, where inequality rose, or will it exceed the red lines?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140427	We have a discussion in our party right now that is not finished. It's just to make it absolutely clear. But it is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that it was with a backdrop of growing inequality under a Social Democratic-SF radical government, where the number of poor people also increased, which was mainly due to some reforms made with the right, and which hit really, very many people today too, for example. increasing youth homelessness, just to mention some of the consequences. It is on the backdrop that we have a discussion about whether we can get this far some other time. If something like this happens again, should we ask the electorate to take a position to reunite the Folketing on that basis?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140514	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140516	Thank you. Then I'd like to ask you another way. If we now have an entrepreneur who is successful in Denmark and the inequality is increasing, will Enhedslisten overturn an S-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140537	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140538	No. I do not think, moreover, that it is a thought example that there are entrepreneurs who will succeed in Denmark fortunately then.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140547	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140550	Thank you for that and thank you for your speech to Mrs Pernille Skipper. I'd like to follow up on what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl mentioned one question, namely the so-called red lines that are being discussed at Enhedslisten, and that is much discussion, I think, more than it is actually something that is easy to relate to when you hear Mrs Pernille Skipper's apology, I say it. It is a lot of wool in the mouth that is spoken here, and perhaps that is also the point, I do not know. But basically, we're a few who are interested in getting to know and finding out where those red lines are. Well, I guess the red lines are some you kind of have somewhere. But where are they? That's interesting, we think. That's point one. Point 2. If it is difficult to answer it right now, perhaps Mrs Pernille Skipper could answer: if it were now the case that the situation of a tax agreement in which there were also top tax concessions, like that made by the government with Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt as Prime Minister years ago, arose again, what would Mrs Pernille Skipper recommend that the Enhedslisten did as a support party for a government? Would you accept it, or would you say that there was a red line passed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140707	Then we'll get answers. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140708	As I have also said to some of the previous speakers, there is a difference between discussion and conclusion, no doubt about it. We have a discussion in our party right now, and I do not conclude it alone. Again: It is unfamiliar to members of the Danish People's Party with such a thing as membership democracy and stuff, and it can be a bit long and difficult, but you must try to understand that, and Mr. Peter Skaarup needs to see if he can get in on it. However, it is true that one of the things that is part of the discussion, and I think I have also told you about this before, is the tax agreement that was concluded in 2012, which for us to see was perhaps one of the worst that happened during that period. In other words, people with disabilities, some of those who have the most difficulty in our country, simply cut in relation to pensioners, people with unemployment and people with disabilities, in order to raise a top tax limit. I do not think anyone is in any doubt that it not only made the Members of the Enhedslisten, but also very many others really, really angry, and it is on the backdrop that we have the discussion. It is then with the in mind and the prospect that it may happen again that we have the discussion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140818	Then it's mr. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140819	Yeah, and that's another discussion. But it was actually the case that Mrs Pernille Skipper himself sat as part of the Enhedslisten's parliamentary group at that time and could certainly have an opinion as to whether there had passed a red line in relation to this, and that is all to get smarter when we ask about these things. Because either it actually matters, or it doesn't matter. If that would mean saying that it actually meant so much that, in that situation, it would have been said that it is too much and that now the curtain is being pulled away under a government, then we would have become wiser here in the debate. If it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter, and then we're not smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140902	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140904	What you can say is that back in 2012 we didn't know how bad things would go. I don't think anyone had imagined when Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Bjarne Corydon entered and sat on the stool over here that it would go as wrong as it went. But the unbearably clear light of hindsight is shining to us now, and that is why we have that discussion. And there is no doubt that part of that discussion is that if a similar tax agreement of such an antisocial nature should arise with a government which sits on the mandates of the Enhedslisten, then it is the thought that we should simply ask the voters whether they will not vote again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140943	Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531140946	Thank you. In the Enhedslisten, these things are being discussed, and Mr. Peter Skaarup could understand, although it is difficult, it was said just now by the rapporteur. I have to admit, I actually thought it was a very arrogant thing. I fully agree that there is a difference between our parties, but when we are asked about the very significant statements made by Mrs Pernille Skipper, this is due to the very significant statements made by Mrs Pernille Skipper's predecessor in relation to the then Red Government. I have to admit that I am not a party counsellor, but I think it is a little strange that you start a possible marriage by talking about how the divorce should take place, depending on what may happen to political matters and matters. I stand here with a statement in hand today, signed by four parties in the opposition. The Radicals are not involved, and Mrs Pernille Skipper obviously cannot answer that question. But does Mrs Pernille Skipper see the position of the current opposition as comparable to that of 2011, which moved part to the left and then suddenly found itself in a place where the Radicals had some conditions that prevailed in the Black Tower? And how will this affect Enhedslisten's future demands for a government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141101	Now it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141103	Oh, my God, I don't think I really understood the question, if I'm to be honest. We do not have a comparable situation with it in 2011, no, and it is, by the way, a completely different social democracy and everything else. But it is quite right that we should prepare ourselves with the discussion we have, where, for example, we are. talk of making red lines or making demands on the government base, as other parties have done, and that we are not always completely at eye level. At least we weren't as much at eye level as we thought we were in 2011, when Helle Thorning-Schmidt and Bjarne Corydon took over the offices, and then it turned out that we weren't. That is what we are preparing for. Is that what we want? No, absolutely not. I know why this part of the Assembly would like to talk about it as much as possible, but what is hoped and thought, and what we are working towards, is a cooperation in which everyone should be heard equally equivalating to the size of the party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141205	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141205-2	Yes, and I promise the President to make it a little shorter this time to compensate, and I must also apologise to Mrs Pernille Skipper. What I asked was a little incomprehensible, I can see that here in retrospect. But let me be quite specific. Is that the integration benefit? Is that the cash-aid ceiling? Is it possible to get on the table such very concrete elements in relation to the policy that will drag these red lines into the picture in earnest and overstep them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141231-2	One of the things that I imagine personally because it is not me who makes the decision is that you can make some demands, for example. to the government basis. How could such demands look? Yes, it could be integration benefit or a ceiling on cash benefits. It is not settled yet, but it is examples of possible demands that could be made in connection with the formation of a government. And red lines? It could be something more general, i.e. that inequality should not increase significantly or that international conventions and everything else should not be broken, and that means that there is plenty of room for us to argue. I'm sure we do, but hopefully there's also a lot of room for cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141309	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141311	Thank you. Now the term fake news has been used in this Chamber today, but perhaps one should have such an expression as Fake Police. Because that's what Enhedslisten stands for. The Enhedslisten will roll back all the reforms, it must be understood in Mrs Pernille Skipper's rapporteur's speech. The retirement age must be reduced, because the reform that has already been adopted must be abandoned, the unemployment benefit reform and the ceiling on cash benefits, and all reforms carried out over the past many years must be rolled back. After all, it is all the reforms that have created the room for manoeuvre that is now in the Danish economy. In the absence of those reforms, there had been no room for manoeuvre and there was a large deficit in public finances. But that does not prevent Mrs Pernille Skipper from standing and saying that public spending must rise. It is simply politics that is not connected. These are policies that cannot be implemented in the real world without a large deficit in public finances.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141419	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141420	I believe that what we need is such a good old-fashioned concept of political disagreement. I think it is very good that we are trying to invent such new and exciting expressions of how to define it, but it is political disagreement. As I have also answered in the past, I think I will certainly question whether the room for manoeuvre has been created by the reforms which have significantly destroyed the basis of life of a great many people, has sent people into an uncertain situation which has deteriorated our welfare, cost thousands of jobs in the public sector, because among other things. has caused people to hold on to money and have domestic demand hanging in the brake instead of moving forward. So I would like to put a big question mark over that, no doubt about it. But it is true that I disagree with Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says we need a smaller welfare society. I want a proper safety net, I want you to lose your job, there's a right to cash benefits until you get a new one. I want everyone's well-being.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141524	Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141525	Mrs Pernille Skipper is simply standing on the floor of the Danish Parliament and questioning whether the room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy has been created by the reforms that have been carried out over the last few years. This is simply not serious. Political disagreements are quite fine. Policy is about priorities, but questioning such basic, fundamental economic terms is simply not serious. The room for manoeuvre is called into question and claims that it has not been created by the reforms that have been carried out. I mean, it hasn't come out by itself. It would be nice if Mrs Pernille Skipper could acknowledge that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141606	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141607	I would like to question very much whether the room for manoeuvre has been created by the many reforms, because it is one of them. has meant that a great many people have lost jobs in the public sector, that many people have had a worse standard of living. They have kept the money and it has reduced domestic demand, which has been a problem for a very, very long time. Now we're in a boom. The question is, would it have come sooner?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141635	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141637	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would really like to ask about something that we do not often talk about among the SF and Enhedslisten, but which I am a little concerned about, namely private schools and free schools. Last year a broad majority in the Danish Parliament strengthened the supervision of Danish private schools and free schools, and it was, among other things, after we could have seen that the number of notifications from free schools and private schools was much smaller than the number from e.g. elementary schools, and we were a little worried about that. The Enhedslisten was not included in that agreement, and it is not because I want the rapporteur to explain it or relate to it, but what I would really like to hear is: what is the position of the Enhedslisten on private schools and free schools? I mean, do you have to tighten up supervision? Do they get too much in subsidies or do they need less in subsidies? How does Enhedslisten actually view private schools and free schools, and should something be changed in relation to the legislation that is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141729	It is good that the rapporteur is not asking me to go into that agreement in great detail. But in Enhedslisten we basically have the view that the primary school should be significantly better, and that means that it should be so good that you also want to be in it, even if you have money for something else. It is a huge, huge problem that so many people are leaving primary school at the moment, because conditions are too bad, and I think that Mr. Jacob Mark agrees with me, and there we have a common front. Free schools and private schools can be beneficial. Well, we've seen lots of new pedagogy blossoming out of the free school movement and everything else, and I think that's fine, too, that we support in public. I also have to say that there is room for private and free schools to take significantly greater social responsibility and make more free places, for example. for children of families who do not feel so easy and do not have the money to go there under normal conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141823	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141824	That was actually the next question I wanted to ask. It worries me a little when up to 20%. of Denmark's students are now attending private school and free school. I think that calls for some sort of action, and that is also why I wanted to know whether Enhedslisten thought that the subsidy for free schools should be reduced. I don't hear that. But would one then agree that we should, for example, be able to do so? Did the grants of the private schools and the free schools make social contributions, so that they received money, after how many pupils from resourceless families they took? Will this be the way to change the private schools' subsidies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141855	I think that sounds like a very good concrete idea. I think that making more demands to take social responsibility for private and free schools in return for the public subsidy they receive sounds very, very good, and it is entirely in line with what we have been calling for for for so many years. I think that a lot of good things have come out of the free school movement, including historical ones, from which the primary school benefits today, but there is no doubt that much greater social responsibility can be taken than there is. But it must go hand in hand with the fact that we also improve our primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141924	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531141925	Thank you. I would like to follow up on the red lines, because when will the red lines become black for the Enhedslisten? We all remember how it ended last time with Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen. And the rapporteur has spoken a great deal about demands today, but we have not heard in this Chamber about a single demand that the Enhedslisten will make for a possible new government. So what are the demands that the Enhedslisten will make if there is a new government headed by Mrs Mette Frederiksen next time? Will the Enhedslisten make as demands if that happens, must God forbid that we get a new government to roll back the cash benefits reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142017	As I have said before, I think, a few times now, one of the things we are discussing is whether to impose conditions on the formation of government on a government basis. There is no doubt that the ceiling on cash benefits could come into play. I would have hoped that the Danish People's Party, before we came to an election, had changed its mind because they have seen how many people are actually suffering under the ceiling of cash aid that the Danish People's Party has voted on. Thousands of children are sent into poverty, there are people who cannot afford the medicines they otherwise need, etc. So I hope so, but there is no doubt that this is the kind of thing that could come into play. Once again, I regret that I have simply not taken the conclusion into account in the Folketing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142105	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl, without summoning the higher powers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142108	I am sorry, and Mrs Mette Frederiksen is a nice and sensible woman, so good word again. But there is just no clear answer from Enhedslisten at all, except that Enhedslisten apparently discusses wildly in their parliamentary group, in terms of what demands they should make. And the Enhedslisten has decided against the cash benefits ceiling, but will not make the same claim anyway. So may I ask Enhedslisten: Will the Enhedslisten make it a requirement that foreign policy should be relaxed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142141	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142143	Well, I kind of feel like I'm standing on that other planet up here. It may be that I speak a foreign language, but it is not only in the Enhedslisten Parliamentary Group that we are discussing wildly. It's all our party. This is also happening among our members and in our departments and all sorts of other places. There we have a lot of discussions about whether we can, for example, get out so far that we will pull the blanket and say: then the voters will have to take a stand again. After all, it is on the basis of some tired experiences. But hope is cooperation. After all, it is a question of everyone being heard, and the conclusion comes later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142221	Now I have to say that we will get to the last question. I apologise to the others who have come forward, but there is only one question left within the time frame, and that is to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142230	Thank you very much. I'd also like to get a little smarter on these red lines, because red lines sound like clear boundaries, but when we ask about that, it doesn't sound quite as clear as clear boundaries, so it sounds a little more like rubber band in meter size. One might be tempted to say: instead of red lines, red elastic bands. That's why I'd like to ask you something a little more specific, just to get a little more aware of where exactly these elastic lines go. Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that the Social Democrats felt that it would not be possible to touch foreign policy if the social democrats were to regain government power. Is the Enhedslisten prepared to support a social democratic government in which foreign policy cannot be adjusted?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142310	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142311	Again, we have a discussion. I do not have the answers to the specific demands, but I can say to Mrs Louise Schack Elholm that for Enhedslisten it is complete DNA, it is heartblood for us to fight for the proper treatment of people on the run. I think it is such a pity that those who call themselves the Liberal Party of Denmark and even still do so proudly are some of those who are the hardest on the people who come here on the run from war and terror and disasters. I think that's awful. I'll do anything to change it, and we fight for it every day. And it is clear that we will fight for that too when we hope to have a new government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142401	Then I'll have to say to Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen, that we've had a little miscalculation up here, so sir. Holger K. Nielsen will be the last to have a brief comment. (Parliament adopted the resolution)
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142416	Yeah, it's kind of hard to come for it. I understand it as if you have not really defined whether you have red lines, red elastic bands or have any kind of requirements at all that determine whether you can support a government in any way. Is it correct to understand that the Enhedslisten has not decided at all whether there should be a demand for a social democratic government in order to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142438	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142439	Yes, it is a discussion that we have in our party that we have not moved forward with. So it is quite right that we have not concluded.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142448	Then it's mr. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142450	Thank you. This is a little in line with the question raised earlier by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen on European cooperation, and it has a lot to do with the speech that Angela Merkel made here last Sunday in Munich, where she, like herself, set out for us Europeans to take our fate into their own hands. When I ask, it also has something to do with the fact that I read on a list on Ritzau just now that Trump has decided to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement. It's pretty catastrophic that he's doing it. Will the Enhedslisten not admit that it then makes even greater demands on European engagement, makes even greater demands on the EU to find a place in the world where we, as Europeans, mark ourselves with values other than those of Trump, and, incidentally, also, as Putin stands for, and that it is therefore unsustainable that the Enhedslisten still has as its objective that the EU should break down and that Denmark should leave the EU, but that we need to strengthen European cooperation in order to create precisely a counterweight to Trump's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142605	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Holger K. Nielsen was allowed to ask his question, because it would almost be breaking an unbreakable tradition if we didn't just take this one right at the end. I fully agree with Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in that Europeans must find a place in the world that sets itself against Trump's totally black climate policy and, incidentally, an arms race between Russia and NATO, which Denmark should say more about. There I am deeply, deeply, not shaken, but I am at least very sorry that the SF has been involved in this, despite the fact that we have signed a joint declaration together with our Nordic sister parties to want to fight for mutual disarmament. So I fully agree that this is the time for us to be international in character. Is the European Union the only player in relation to this? No, it is first of all to put Denmark's light under a bushel and to put the rest of the world's light under a bushel and, by the way, to be completely blind to the problems that the European Union is creating, both with austerity policy and now I have no more time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142715	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142717	I'm sorry, but that wasn't a conversation. I do not think Mrs Pernille Skipper can be so familiar as to ignore that, I have to say. I ask specifically about the climate agreement. Would Mrs Pernille Skipper not agree that the only chance for us to have a progressive climate policy globally, that the Paris Agreement can be taken seriously, is for Europe to take shape? Will she not admit that the European Union is, without comparison, the most progressive player in global climate policy and that it is therefore absolutely essential that we have stronger EU cooperation in this area and that it is therefore counter-productive and unsustainable that the Enhedslisten will still allow the EU to disintegrate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142811	There are simply so many premises on the issue that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen would like me to agree, so I will have to answer no, but at least I have the answer directly. However, everything that is being wrapped in buzzwords, that is to say that Europeans have a role to play on the international agenda in relation to climate policy, I fully agree with the SF in. We cannot disagree at all that Europe, not just the European Union, but Europe, as some of the richest countries in the world then have an obligation to take the lead and to fight for it. And I hope that our Prime Minister, when he gets the chance, will speak out loudly to Trump about how disastrous it is to step out of a climate agreement. It is a global problem that we must take part in solving the problem, but it has nothing to do with Enhedslisten's EU policy, it is a ghost, sir. Holger K. Nielsen creates.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142907	Then we thank Mrs Pernille Skipper and welcome Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531142921	Thank you. It's kind of a commentator sport to put some like us in booths and put labels on, red, blue, purple and green, and on a Matador scale you can be idealistic Red, colorful and funny Gitte Grey or the traditional and spoiled Maude Varnæs • some even dream of being Colonel Hackel, I think, the Secretary of Defense. I know who I am and who the Liberal Alliance is. We're Agnes Jensen. You have to admit, she's a pretty cool woman, a woman with a certain body part in her pants. Agnes Jensen is a strong woman, a modern woman and a woman seeking a better life. She has ambitions, she wants to come forward in the world, and she's working hard for it. She's not too fine to peel potatoes, and she's not too fine to mask nylon stockings or to serve the men's cabinets. She sees opportunities where others see limitations, and she is not afraid to pursue her dreams, even if it means for a while to move out into unknown terrain. On the contrary, she cannot help herself. We would like more Agnes Jensener: the small entrepreneurs who get a good idea, businessmen who work hard to create something, businesses that create jobs and thus tax revenue for the country. Entrepreneurs are there, but unfortunately we politicians all too often stand in the way of allowing them to pursue their ambitions. That is why, in the Liberal Alliance, we salute people like Agnes Jensen and want to promote a society with better space for her particular. The Liberal Alliance has helped to abolish the PRS tax; we are making more flexible maternity rules for self-employed people; we have made it easier to change the generation, even if Agnes Jensen's husband, Red, would certainly have scolded beyond the latter. So far, so good, but there's much more to do. The Liberal Alliance wants to remove entrepreneurial tax; we want to reduce corporate tax; we want to reduce VAT on business in the Danish summer country so that it can increase tourism. We want to ease the administrative burden; we want to liberalise the law on plans and abolish the closure law and outsource more public tasks, so that we open up new markets to imaginative entrepreneurs, so that new thinking can gain ground more easily, including in the public sector. In short, we will make it easier for people like Agnes Jensen to succeed in the projects and realise the dreams, instead of regulating entrepreneurial ideas beyond recognition, we must politically recognise that our most important task in relation to new initiatives is to get the least in the way. Entrepreneurs and business are a prerequisite for a good public service without revenue, no expenses; without Agnes, no Red. The fact that just partying through for other people's money may well be Gitte Grey, types like Maude also think it's okay to get a fur in the front door while you just go up and lie down through the back door. I think there is a new divide in Danish politics which is becoming increasingly clear: the vision of change, making things smarter and throwing us into the upheavals that new technologies open the doors to if we dare. In the Liberal Alliance we do not fear the future, we do not fear new technology, and we do not fear types like Agnes Jensen, when they think new and innovatively, on the contrary we pay tribute to them. They often take a high risk and rarely receive thanks as deserved. Agnes Jensen was a woman of action. She went ahead, she saw the world in color. Instead of being frightened by drifting types like Mads Skjern and blacking out in times of adversity, she took courage and played herself on the field. She didn't shut herself down. In the old Korsbæk in the 1930s it can be said that Agnes Jensen was the incarnation of disruption. Agnes Jensen would not have been afraid of Uber, on the contrary. She would probably have been the first Uber driver in Korsbæk just as when she saw the possibilities of turning old serving trays into beautiful collectibles for the city's ladies and making it a business. She was not burdened with carers, but driven by seeing opportunities. In the Liberal Alliance we want to make Denmark better, richer and more free, and if you want to, it is a good idea to start with yourself. So let's do it. We put people before the system, and we fight for what we believe in. That is why the many scandals in the SKAT have also touched something in us, because it is a scandal that a large part of the citizens' money has vanished as dew for the sun peeped away, into nothing. It is grotesque and I fully understand all the citizens who are deeply outraged. We ask ourselves and each other how it could go so wrong. I think one of the explanations is that politicians and civil servants have for decades just been thinking about the system before man. A tax system has been created in which not only citizens but apparently SKAT itself gets lost. This is totally absurd and we should change that. If something doesn't work, it should either be fixed or shut down, just like the Ladies Magazine in Korsbæk. Albert Arnesen and Mr. Schwann didn't follow in time. Mads Andersen-Skjern did. One lost his business, the other didn't. We need a system that everyone can find out about, even without being a highly trained tax expert or an accountant. It is not only about money, it is also about legal certainty. We can and I know that we disagree on tax rates and on how much of the Danes' income they should be allowed to keep for themselves. But we can surely agree that the current system is obsolete. It's dysfunctional, and that's all, too complex. But it does not have to be, especially if we, who are here, will in future be less eager to find new objects that can be taxed. Over time, the wealth of ideas has been great when it comes to matters that can be imposed on a tax or a tax. Let me just mention a few examples of what is unfortunately from the real world: we have a tax on rechargeable batteries, waste tax, a tax on plastic bags, a tax on paper bags, a tax on disposable services, food foils and tape, a tax on rain clothes and tarpaulins and a tax on roller curtains. We have the swell tax, i.e. the tax on air in ice, the additional levy on alcohol drinks, nut tax, chocolate tax, the tax on slot machines, casino and racing, the tax on filament lamps, coffee and tea. And I could go on like that if I had enough time. Honestly, that's crazy. In the Liberal Alliance, we want lower taxes. Others would like them to be higher or maintain the status quo, but we should be able to agree with each other that we cannot be familiar with presenting the wild list of taxes and duties to citizens and businesses. There is no chance, after all, of knowing whether taxes are being correctly calculated. In the Liberal Alliance, we therefore propose that we use the years to come to re-evaluate our entire tax system. Basically, we want to perform a Ctrl+Alt+Delete operation, i.e. start over. And we are happy to take the lead on the road to a simpler tax world. We believe that all Danes in work should be allowed to keep the first DKK 7,000 they earn themselves. No one has to pay taxes until they can support themselves. It's a good moral principle. Income over DKK 7,000 may not be taxed more than 70%. It's simple, and it's not least fair. The current tax system will soon have 50 years on its back. Since then, there have been countless laws and regulations, deductions and new ways of taxing. Every time a politician has got a bright idea, and it happens that requires funding, and the ideas do, a new object has been found to tax. In this way, the lap has been relaxed and created not only the world's most treasured people, but also the world's most tax-complicated country. And yes, I know that some of you are probably thinking that those in the Liberal Alliance are always talking about taxes, but frankly: I actually think that we here have a common bottom task. In the Liberal Alliance, we're happy to take responsibility. We do that here in the Folketing, and we do it in the government. We can make the best tax system in the world if we dare. We can create the world's most innovative society if we dare. And we can create the world's best place to be Agnes Jensen, if we dare. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531143920	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have a whole strip here that would like to ask more about Agnes Jensen, I think. The first is sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531143932	Thank you. So, I have to start by saying that it cuts my Matadorel-loving heart that the rapporteur says that the Liberal Alliance is Agnes Jensen, but I think the rapporteur is actually wrong. For when Agnes Jensen was an employee, she stood with her colleagues and fought for proper pay and working conditions for her colleagues, who all worked in the kitchens. When she became self-employed, it was an independent goal for her ladies, who sat and masked socks, to have proper pay and working conditions. That is why Agnes Jensen would not have welcomed Uber, because Uber did not pay his employees properly, did not give them proper conditions and, moreover, did not comply with the law. If the Liberal Alliance is something, it's Skjold Hansen, always fresh on the fastest scam. And we all know how it went with Skjold Hansen. Having said that, I would like to ask a little more about the tax issue, as the rapporteur has said. It does not annoy us in the Social Democratic Party that the rapporteur would like to discuss it, because we also heard what the rapporteur's party chairman, Anders Samuelsen, said about the government base at the time when the Liberal Alliance entered into government, namely that it was the best civil, liberal government programme ever seen. Now it is a stated goal that the top tax should be reduced. Will the rapporteur clarify to the Danish Parliament how far the top tax is going down?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144049	I will answer the questions, but I would actually like to start with the premise that the Liberal Alliance is somehow opposed to companies having proper working conditions. It is simply not right to put it in place. In relation to the top tax issue, I would say that the government is making a tax proposal on the other side of the summer holiday, but I would like to say what the policy of the Liberal Alliance is, and I think it is well known to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. Ideally, we would like to see the top tax abolished completely, and we went to the polls for that. And that is, first of all, because we do not think we should pay taxes until we can support ourselves. That's one thing. Secondly, we believe that the Social Democratic Party meant something in the old days too; it has been forgotten, an excellent principle that the top tax is in fact a stupid penalty for being hard-working, a stupid penalty for being hard-working, a stupid penalty for being good at your job, exactly what Agnes Jensen stood for: getting new ideas and creating something that you make money on. And if you're really good at it and really industrious and get a long way and create jobs for others who can then get to work, then you have to have a go in the nuts of SKAT and a majority in here who think the top tax is a good idea. I think that is a moral principle that we should do away with, that is, with the fact that if you are industrious, capable, hardworking, living your dreams, you have to be punished in some way for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144222	Thank you. And if you want the floor again, you're gonna press it right in. Here you go, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144227	It is okay for the rapporteur to say that the Liberal Alliance does not want poor pay and working conditions for the workers out there, but we can just think back to Vejlegården, where there was also a part of a resolution in this Chamber that would restrict the rights of employees in conflict, and also of Uber, for that matter, where a concept has been hailed that was against the law and that did not give employees proper pay and working conditions. On the other hand, what I would like to ask is: is it to be understood that the Liberal Alliance will demand of its two government partners that the top tax should be abolished completely prior to the negotiations that will take place in the autumn?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144308	Well, excuse my French, but it's quite ridiculous to claim that the Liberal Alliance should pay tribute to criminals in this way. But we are all legislators, we are all legislators, and we all have a desire to be able to set up legislation in the future, including in the taxi sector, so liberally that there is room for the platform that Uber is and that we also close the future, which is roaring out there, inside Denmark. That is the wish we have, but to claim that we should think it was a great thing to break the law, I do not think it is right. In relation to the second, whether we want to make it a requirement, I can say that we are going to negotiate with the policy that is ours. I think all the political parties do that, and I hope all the political parties do so, and we come up for negotiations with the wishes we have and the ambitions we have on Denmark's behalf. And yes, the Liberal Alliance believes that the top tax should be abolished, and it is of course with the ambitions that we go to all tax negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144401	The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144403	First of all, in connection with Agnes Jensen, who was married to Red, I would just like to say that it is true that it gives exciting perspectives for Danish politics that the Liberal Alliance is considering it. Otherwise, I just want to say that I think she's such a type of person that she seems at least in the TV series that would be happy to make so much money that she could also give a cut to others who need it. So to the picture that she was going to be deeply offended by making so much money that she had to pay top tax, I would say that I think she is exactly a type that would actually be delighted to be able to contribute in that way, also to the well-being of others. But maybe that's just how I see the series and Mrs. Agnes Jensen. The reason I took the floor was actually simply that I wanted to remind the rapporteur of something. I do not demand that you are deep in the details of the election day 3 in 2015, but on Day 3 of the election campaign, the Liberal Alliance, the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party were actually out with a joint announcement that we would ensure that the people were involved when there were major EU actions, even if there was no surrender of sovereignty in the traditional sense, that is, according to the constitution, but simply to have a brake that ensured that the people were involved. I think that is a little interesting to look at now, because after Brexit there are major discussions in the European Union about what the European Union is going to develop into, and also whether the European Union is going to decide much more in some areas now that those stubborn Britons are on their way out, and then I would like to remind the Liberal Alliance about Day 3 of the election campaign and our joint announcement to the Danes here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144530	Thank you. It is true that Agnes Jensen was married to Red, and if the questioner thinks it is particularly interesting from the perspective of the Liberal Alliance, I would just like to say that I have no problem at all in dealing with people with whom I very much disagree. Agnes didn't, and that's how you can be nicely open-minded. Nor do I think that Agnes Jensen would have been offended by having to pay top taxes, but if she were to do so, especially after all the strength she put into creating a good future for herself and her children, then I do not think it would be fair to punish her on the day she managed to make so much money that she got into the top tax area. It also sends a signal that somehow it is not okay to be hard-working and seek to earn more money for itself. As far as I remember, the tax burden in the 1930s was around 20%, and I think that may also be a figure that can encourage a little reflection. In relation to this issue of the European Union and the surrender of sovereignty, I would say that this is an area in which our two parties take a very similar view. That is also why, in the referendum on the abolition of the legal reservation, we jointly recommended a 'no' vote, precisely because in that vote it was proposed to compromise on the good principle that, when there is a surrender of sovereignty to the European Union, we should of course ask the people, and we stand by that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144654	We can train a little bit about getting back in, sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144703	Thank you. It is true that when there is a surrender of sovereignty, there are referendums, and that was also what was important in relation to the reservation of the law, that is to say that the Folketing should not be able to sit behind and judge for itself what was to be given sovereignty. We went to the Danes with it in 2015, and it is as among others. Mr. Simon Emil Ammitzbøll put it then, not so that we should have a referendum in time and early, but this is a good brake that ensures that the mood of the people that one still wants to be a member of the European Union but, at the same time, be critical of some of the actions that come can be represented in the referendums, although there is no majority in the Folketing. The idea here was simply to have a valve, so when the EU wanted to take major initiatives, we secured together with this mechanism a minimum of 60 mandates behind it, and if we got it, we would put it in place here. Now we have 64 mandates together, as far as I remember, so now we have the opportunity to secure what we promised the Danes then. That is just what I wanted to remind the Liberal Alliance of today, so we are on a common line on what we have promised the Danes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144809	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144810	Thank you for your memory. Furthermore, I and the Liberal Alliance still agree with that premise for the EU debate and for European policy in this country, so it is important to bring the Danes closer to the issues relating to Denmark's commitment to the European Union, i.e. which parts of the cooperation should apply to us and which parts should not. That's one part of it. The second part is how the government is actively working in the European Union to move in the direction that I believe we agree on the European Union should: against much leaner cooperation, concentrating on what is by nature cross-border and is therefore natural to resolve together. That is also what lies in these five guidelines, which have been presented to the European Commission but which have not yet been concluded, and I believe that we fully agree that the direction in which we want EU cooperation to go is against a leaner but also a more effective European Union in those areas where it makes sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144906	Then it is Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144908	Anonymous officials have said to Politiken that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration was warned that this was contrary to the law when she decided to forcibly separate the young asylum couples without an individual assessment. That is a very serious accusation, because in that case she has broken the law with open eyes and it is a breach of the law of ministerial responsibility. How does the Liberal Alliance plan to get the truth out of this case if we do not have the opportunity to interrogate officials under witness responsibility?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531144951	First of all, it is a little strange to have to stand here and comment on what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen rightly says is anonymous statements by unnamed officials. It's a little weird in itself. Another thing is that we must stick to what is an existing legal principle in this country, namely that we are innocent until something else has been proven, and I think that applies to everyone, including ministers. I have heard the Minister say that she was not warned that that instruction was illegal, and that is what I am referring to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145032	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145033	It is quite rare that there should be leaks from these ministries, and that is a rather serious leak, it can be said, an accusation that a minister has broken the law of ministerial responsibility, in other words issued an order that was contrary to the law, and has done so with open eyes. I think that is a serious accusation. If I were a parliamentary basis, I would think it should be examined. I find it strange that the Liberal Alliance will not be involved in the investigation. And the only way we can get to the bottom of this is to let the officials speak under witness responsibility. What is the problem with letting officials speak under witness responsibility? My second question is: if it turns out that the Minister was warned either orally or in writing, can she continue in the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145126	I agree that anonymous leaks are weird, but now it is not the Liberal Alliance that has asked unnamed sources in a ministry to make an anonymous leak to Politiken, and that is why they must have made the allegations, of course, but they have not wanted to do so, even on the part of Politiken. That is why it is a little strange to have to stand here and deal with something which, at best, has to be described as a little loose claims. If you're serious, you have to document it. What I am dealing with is what the Minister is saying and what has been read in the press, namely that she was not warned against it, and I have to take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145206	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145210	Thank you. First of all, I must say that it was nice to hear a speech from the Liberal Alliance, which was not about top tax, but about taxes more broadly. Actually, it was a new break. I very much agree with this view that things can be made simpler, including in the SKAT, so that they are easier to understand and more transparent. But now the rapporteur mentions, among other things: some of the charges, which are also taxes due to the OEF, such as on plastic bags, etc. Does the Liberal Alliance not agree that taxes can be used precisely to regulate a market so that we do not see even greater problems with microplastics in our gardens and so that we support developments that make it easier to do what is right, including for the market? So does the Liberal Alliance not agree that taxes can be used for precisely this kind of thing and that it is also a good way to go?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145303	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145304	First of all I want to say in relation to the top tax, and that I did not mention it in my speech, that I actually think I did. I do not know whether you have deliberately chosen to ignore it, but I can then assure you that, and I do not know whether you are going to take a positive or negative view of the fact that it is still very high on the agenda of the Liberal Alliance. In relation to whether taxes can be used to regulate behaviour, I would say that yes, you can, and in some areas it may be very sensible, but I also think there are many examples in areas where you have gone too far and where it becomes such moral patrimony and raised fingers of points, especially on health, in relation to how we should live our lives. So there we have a great deal of disagreement, because I have such confidence that the Danes, the citizens, are themselves able to decide how they want to live their lives. But, of course, you can use taxes and charges to regulate behavior we can then disagree on which areas it is a good idea to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145400	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145401	Now my doubts weren't as if the Liberal Alliance wanted to get rid of the top tax. It was just nice to be able to discuss anything other than top tax, since taxes are more than that. But now that we are talking about some of the taxes, I would say that it is not about the individual's choice; it is about the common choice. So we want to have destroyed our ocean of microplastics, so the fish die, so we have nothing to catch and eat? And is this the kind of tax that the Liberal Alliance actually wants to work with and perhaps turn it up if you want to remove others, so that we can regulate behaviour in relation to the collective choice that is about our nature and our environment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145437	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145438	No, we don't want to destroy the oceans, so the fish die, we don't. As far as environmental regulation is concerned, I think it is really about finding a proper balance in relation to having solid regulation on the one hand, so that we look after our environment and look after our nature, and on the other hand, the regulatory screw does not tighten so hard that we simply push the problems beyond the limit. After all, the environment is about something cross-border, and climate is about something cross-border. So if we tighten the screw too much in Denmark, and that applies to both the environment and climate, then my concern is that if we do not hit the balance right, you just push it and it may be production, it may be pollution, it may be anything else • to places where they produce and destroy nature much, much more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145529	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145531	After all, the Liberal Alliance voted for a gradual reduction in the public sector. It had to fill something smaller, and it was easy to do for something smaller. That was honest talk, and it hasn't been much. However, it can be said that in one area the Liberal Alliance has really put its influence through, and that is in the field of education. That's where it's been. In all secondary educations, all vocational trainings, all hf-centres, all higher educations in Denmark have succeeded. There, year after year, you have to manage with 2%. less entirely after the deviating that the Liberal Alliance would roll over the public sector. I just ask myself, is this something we should expect to continue? Is it also with the new economic plan and the initiatives that lie, the Liberal Alliance and government policy, that these savings must continue year after year, because can we not get through with our policies everywhere in the public sector, can we at least reduce education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145636	There's schwung over the rhetoric: "Sable down on education." That's right, sir. Morten Østergaard also says that we went to the polls that the public sector can easily be both more efficient and less in scope than it is today. It was not something we just made up, or some statement that just fell from the sky; it is something we justify in that the Productivity Commission says that it will be possible to maintain at least the same level of service that we have today, while at the same time increasing the efficiency of 10%. From this point of view, it is strange that it should be to put down education, that it should also be said that the education sector should deliver the 2%. In terms of efficiency, the rest of the public sector needs to be made more efficient. It is such a strange premise for this debate that somehow today we should have achieved the optimum use of the public sector and the perfect way of doing things and that nothing can ever be done better. It's just not a premise that I share.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145737	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145738	I have the premise that everything can be done better, but it is of course about how to do it. I am just saying that I will certainly not put my head on the block and say that those who start on a hf in 2020, where you have to get by with the same student numbers with just over 80%. of the budget at the time of the government's accession will receive an education of the same high quality. That is why my real question is: is it the position of the government that it should continue? In other words, the savings in education, which, if we take only upper secondary education and extensive education, must sum up to 3.5 billion. kr. in 2020, continue to 2025, where it will then be 6.5 billion. kr.? I mean, those who have saved 10%. from 2015-2020, save 20% before we reach 2025, if the Liberal Alliance gets power as you have been watching? It is a simple question to which you can answer yes or no.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145833-2	I am glad that the questioner notes that the questioner also agrees with the Liberal Alliance that everything can be done better. We're gonna have to pursue that all the time. In relation to the development of the public sector, I am glad that the questioner does not then buy the premise that a high level of service can only be provided if we maintain the level of expenditure that we have today. It's basically a matter of priorities. I have the priority, and the Liberal Alliance has the priority, that when we buy in on behalf of the citizens and with the citizens' money in our hands, we have a responsibility to ensure at all times that both they get the best possible service for the money, but certainly they get it as cheaply as possible. I simply do not believe that I am simply not buying the premise that, because you have to be more efficient at 2%, you are destroying the entire public sector. If you make the same requirement in a private company, it can easily do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145929	The next question is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531145931	Thank you. After all, the Liberal Alliance has got an senior minister's office and even an experienced one to sit on it. Speaking of her, Agnes Jensen, I'm thinking that she's always a social worker and a health care worker, so we've made it clear at least in today's Denmark. In addition to being busy smoking, she is also living with enormous structural challenges, especially when the Liberal Alliance insists that more privatisation of care for the elderly should take place, despite the fact that there are twice as many bankruptcies in private care companies than there are in all other sectors of the economy. Only yesterday Lolland Municipality had to hand out the third warning to a private care company, which again had forgotten to visit citizens and forgot to take bells. So can't it be too cheap? Can't the care of the elderly really get too cheap? And is that really the reason for the extraordinary number of bankruptcies? What does the Liberal Alliance think is the answer to that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150038	I should just like to make it clear at the outset that Agnes Jensen was not a public employee. When we think it is important to continue to outsourcing, including in the area of the elderly, it is because we care that the elderly should have something to choose from. It's weird, because when we as citizens live a free life in this country and go to work or whatever we do, we can to some extent choose how we organize our lives, but then on that day the premise should be from the questioner's side we get old and may need help, then there must be one standard offer for us, namely what the municipality has to offer. I do not think that is good enough if we also have to respect the diversity which of course exists between the elderly, in the same way that we, who are not quite as old as yet, are also different. So you don't, if the offer you make to the elderly is that they can choose between the municipality's offer and the municipality's offer. This does not mean that there are no problems because of the bankruptcies that have occurred. I totally agree with that. And that is why the Minister for the Elderly has also set up a group to look at why it is that things have gone wrong and what we can do to ensure that things do not go wrong to the same extent in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150146	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150147	These are, after all, roughly the same tasks that private companies are doing, at least that is what they are getting paid for. With more and more older people and even with zero growth, the two things just don't work out very well. How does the Liberal Alliance feel about the elderly minister should be able to cope with that challenge in relation to the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150208	But now the questioner says that there is zero growth, and I do not know whether the questioner thinks it should be in the area of the elderly, but it is just not true, that there is zero growth in the area of the elderly. But we will insist that it is important that the elderly have something to choose from the day they need help. Of course, you can look at this differently and think it's quite fine, so the day you need help, you have to be stuffed into your boxes, and then everyone has to have exactly the same offers, exactly the same food, taken care of by exactly the same people who have no respect whatsoever for the diversity that there is of course also between the elderly. It's just not a vision that I or the Elder Minister subscribe to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150247	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Astrid Krag, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150251	The latter was then a rather gross generalisation of the people who work in our care of the elderly, so that they should not take into account the fact that people are different individuals at all. But this is another debate. I have to come back to something the rapporteur said earlier, where she dreamed of returning to the tax burden of the 1930s. I would just like to say that the tax burden of the '30s also belonged to society of the '30s. There was no national pension. I think the rapporteur would rather be hospitalized in one of today's hospitals than in one of the hospitals of his day; kindergartens did not have the level they have today; nursing homes were called old-age homes and some different lives were lived. In other words, when the rapporteur dreams himself back to the 30's tax burden in this way, one must also have to take the rest of the story with him. In any case, I am personally very pleased that I and my children and my family are living in the welfare society we have today. The rapporteur was actually talking about top tax in his speech, and we know that the Liberal Alliance would like the top tax to be completely removed. We also know that the Liberal Alliance has been very specific in the past and has said that the top tax should be reduced by at least five percentage points. I just want to hear the rapporteur here today whether it is still the success criterion for the Liberal Alliance and what makes it felt that it would have been the answer to join the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150407	I am happy to reply to the top tax, but I simply have to challenge some of the grounds on which Mrs Astrid Krag based her question. Firstly, I did not generalise with the employees working in the care of the elderly, on the contrary. It is also a question of whether you are a SOSU assistant or otherwise working in the care of the elderly. It may be as a nurse. It may be another thing that you do not have only one place to look for a job. One is not exactly the same as the SOSU assistant, which is why it may also be very good to be able to look for work in a nursing home which practises the values which you yourself think are important and which you would like to support in the care of the elderly. So it is simply wrong to say so. Secondly, Mrs Astrid Krag says that I dream myself back to the '30s. And then I just have to say that I think Mrs Astrid Krag heard my speech completely wrong because I did not. I took a picture from the 30s, and I think Mrs Astrid Krag understood that too, which was a character from a television show that most of us love very much. Finally: In relation to the top tax, the success criterion is for us and I hope and believe that it is for all parties, of course, to get as much of our own policy through. I think it is for the Social Democratic Party too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150519	Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150522	It was nice to get in place that the bandbull was then not aimed at the SOSUs, but perhaps then at the municipalities. We can then hear what was actually said. But let me ask anyway, because I think the top tax answer was a little short here. So, am I wrong if I say that it must be a success criterion for the Liberal Alliance that the top tax with the new government, of which the Liberal Alliance is a part, should be reduced more in the forthcoming tax reform than the former, slimmer Left Government put forward? Is that the success criterion for the Liberal Alliance, or can it be just a little bit? And is it okay if it's not all the way up or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150606	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150608	After all, it is wonderful to feel the social democracy's concern that the top tax will be lowered and I can almost hear about it on a large scale; and if that is the case, then we have formed a good alliance here today, I think. I would say that the starting point for the Liberal Alliance is that if we had the famous 90 mandates and were allowed to decide completely for ourselves, we would remove the top tax tomorrow. And we would, because when you remove the top tax, it's per. In this way, it is the most effective way of creating growth. That is exactly the growth that we must have if we also want better care for the elderly in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150648	And then it's sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150650	Thank you. I also came across that Agnes Jensen comparison. The mere fact that she has intimate relations with a Communist should perhaps have written off this possibility, but Agnes Jensen is probably also generally a person, such as, for example. Is concerned about the weak in society and who is responsible for a fairly strong community among colleagues, as others have also mentioned. So maybe I actually think that if you're finally going to find a character in Monopoly, maybe it's closer to the young Jørgen Varnæs, who could be a member of the Liberal Alliance, flamboyant, kind of eccentric, big in the battle, but not so good at getting something out of hand when it comes to the play. What distinguishes above all is perhaps closer to human vision. I was reminded of this here during one of the answers to a question about the top tax, where the rapporteur says that top tax is a punishment for those who are diligent. Does this mean that the rapporteur believes that the vast majority of Danes who go to work, SOSUs, those who clean up our day institutions before we meet in the morning, and so many others who never get near the top tax, are not industrious and hard-working?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150803	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150805	In relation to the first thing that Agnes Jensen used to deal intimately with a communist, I think we've all tried to be young and in love once. For most of us, it's gonna pass at some point. On the question of, when I say that top tax is a stupid penalty for those who are industrious and successful, and if that means, with a reverse logic, that everyone else who does not pay top tax should not be industrious, then that is a very strange illogical way of reasoning. Of course I don't mean that. Most people jump in and out of the top treasure through a life. There may be some years when you make a lot of money and succeed, and then there may be some years when you have a difficult time. Those who start up as entrepreneurs often have a long-term history of earning little money, and I think that if you make it up from the hourly wage, you are some of the worst paid in society. At some point, then, some of them manage to succeed and start making money after many years of hard work, and there is just my view that it is unreasonable that they should then be punished extra hard for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531150917	Now I know it can be difficult when you're sitting in here to know what's going on out there in the real world outside, but it's not like most Danes go in and out of the top tax. The vast majority of Danish employees never come near the top tax. The level of top tax is so high that ordinary Danish employees do not pay top tax, and those who come up and pay top tax, the examples that are sometimes used with nurses and others, pay top tax on a tiny part of their income. That is why we can see that if you lower the top tax or abolish it, it is quite clearly at the top of the income scale that the really big tax rebates are coming. Then we should not try to treat the problem as it is. Yes, let us do something for the small entrepreneurs, but let us help them where they need it instead of giving them top tax relief on the day when the one or those who have inherited wealth have enough money to contribute to the community that we all enjoy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151013	Speaking time simply goes from the rest of the House when you talk well over time. So you can just look kindly at those who talk a long time, and not at me. I'm gonna be here anyway. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151023	Thank you. But Mr. Pelle Dragsted is trying to draw a wrong picture of what the reality is about top tax, namely that it should be the tiny exclusive club, all of which live in large houses north of Copenhagen, which pays top tax. That's not true. Thus, out of a group of about 3 million employees in Denmark there are approx. Half a million people paying top taxes. And that's why this myth, which has also flourished in the Assembly Hall today, is that it should be the 10%. the most well-paid in the country, which pays top tax, simply not really. Approx. Half a million out of approx. 3 million employees are not a small exclusive club, it is a very large proportion of Danes who go to work and pay taxes that pay top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151104	Thank you. Then it's mr. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151106	Thank you. I noted that in his rapporteur's speech the rapporteur did not mention top tax as much as a lot of different taxes. Perhaps that is because the rapporteur would rather not go into anything that is developing into a loser case for the Liberal Alliance within the government. That's how party chairman Mr. Anders Samuelsen said at one point about the proposal made by the Left Government at the time, where there was only to be a relief for incomes of up to 1 million. kr. that you would have the 5% relief all the way up. So my question is, what is the success criterion for the Liberal Alliance in the government? What can be accepted, which should at least be relieved in the top tax rate in percentage points, and where should this be done on the scale?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151155	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151156	Thank you. I think I have answered the same question quite a few times now, but I would like to repeat it. I think it is the success criterion for all the political parties that I hope so; otherwise you simply are not ambitious enough if you do not have it as the success criterion to have your policy implemented. This means that when we believe that the top tax should be completely removed because, firstly, it harms growth and, secondly, because we think it is unfair, it is clear that this is our success criterion. Does this mean that we believe that we will get through with the complete abolition of the top tax? No, I don't think we do. But does this mean that we must stop fighting for what is our position? No, of course it doesn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151232	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151234	If it is the success criterion of the Liberal Alliance to get a lot of its policy through, I can hear that a lot of paddle is being paddled backwards today, compared to the fact that you don't think you get so much through on top tax. Sir. Anders Samuelsen was very offensive before the Liberal Alliance entered the government. That was when the Left Government could fall if the Liberal Alliance did not adopt its policy. Now some members of the Liberal Alliance have got ministerial cars, and now I hear that the success criterion is falling and falling, so I just want to hear: is it really enough for the Liberal Alliance if it is the case that the Left is once again being trumped again that it is their proposal from the autumn that is going to be the government's overall policy? Is that a proper success criterion for the Liberal Alliance today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151326	I again thank you for your concern that the Liberal Alliance should succeed in abolishing the top tax. Then the questioner says we paddle. I just want to say I'm not paddling anywhere. I am standing right here saying that the Liberal Alliance would like to remove the top tax, but perhaps it is also an opportunity to remind you of what the Liberal Alliance has chosen in the area of taxation, namely on the one hand, and that is what our 2025 plan says about removing the top tax, and it costs approx. 8 billion. kr., and on the other hand to lighten the treasure massively at the bottom. It's this principle that you don't have to pay taxes until you can support yourself. So we set that at 7,000 kroner. a month. That means that the first DKK 7,000 you make, you don't have to pay taxes. It costs in the vicinity of 44 billion. kr. to finance it. It's just to get it in. Moreover, the principle that you should not support others before you can support yourself is a principle that the Socialists once paid tribute to, and I think it would be really wonderful if the Socialists re-entered that path.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151427	Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151430	Thank you to the rapporteur for a very good speech, and thank you to the Liberal Alliance in general for focusing on legal certainty. But I have to say that I do miss the Liberal Alliance a little after the Liberal Alliance has entered into government, because I think that the Liberal Alliance was such a guarantor of legal certainty. I would actually like to go back to a question which has also been asked earlier, because when the integration rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance answered the whole question of whether our Minister for Integration had been aware that what she was doing was illegal, I was surprised that the answer was: well, we agree with the policy. That's what I'd like to part. I assume that the Liberal Alliance fully agrees that, although one agrees with a policy, one must respect the law as a minister. I would like to hear confirmation from the rapporteur on the floor that the Liberal Alliance is of course in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151529	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151531	Of course we are in favour of it, that goes without saying, but we have to deal with the facts that we know. And what we know here is that there is a claim in a newspaper that the Minister of Integration should have been warned. There is no one who has wanted to prove this, and in the name of legal certainty I have to insist once again on the legal principle that applies in this country, namely that you are innocent until proven otherwise, and the fact that you are a traveller, that there is certainly something about talk and then you are probably guilty and something like that, I think that is quite fundamental to a good principle in a proper legal society, namely that you are of course innocent until someone has proved otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151616	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151622	Thank you. In fact, that was also why the answer given by the integration rapporteur surprised me so much, because that was not the answer that the rapporteur on the platform is now giving. That was another answer, which was that we agree with that policy, and that is something quite different. I assume that we agree on what the rapporteur has also confirmed, that if a minister has received information that the policy being pursued cannot be carried out because it is illegal, then of course we must correct it and stick to it as a minister. That is also what I hear the rapporteur confirm. That was just not the argument used by the integration rapporteur from the Liberal Alliance, and it really upset me because exactly the Liberal Alliance has stood up for legal certainty, as I see it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151710	The Liberal Alliance has stood up for legal certainty and stands up for legal certainty. We do the same here, in that we do not, therefore, judge you by claims that flourish in all sorts of places without having carried anything that merely resembles proof of it. Of course, if you break the law as a citizen of this country, you have to be punished for it, and then I think it doesn't matter what law it is. If there is a law, some kind of ban that I do not think should be there, one should of course nevertheless be punished if one violates it. Of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151744	Then it's Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151747	Thank you. I would like to return to the level of ambition in relation to our education. This applies both to upper secondary education and to higher education, where the government is carrying on a 2% saving now and in the coming years. Can the rapporteur, like the rapporteur, elaborate on what is actually the level of ambition of the Liberal Alliance? Is this continuing with the education we have today? Is it better education that we should have in the future both upper secondary education for our young people at all levels and higher education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151834	You should know the Liberal Alliance badly if you think that we are a party in favour of maintaining the status quo. We do not do that anywhere, and that is also why, in all policy areas, we have a very high level of ambition, so the idea that the education sector has reached an optimal stage, both in content and quality, is nonsense. I just do not think there is any contradiction in saying that the education sector can of course also be made more efficient in the same way as other parts of the state, i.e. as other parts of the public sector. I think that we should stop doing everything about money when it comes to the public sector. We have one of the world's most expensive public sectors, and I think most people agree that it is not in all areas that we also have the best public service. But, of course, we do not believe that we have now reached the limit of education and that the most important task here and the greatest ambition one can then set for it is simply to maintain the status quo.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151937	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531151942	Thank you. Understood. In fact, I share the ambition that we should have much better education with a higher quality than we have today. What if we did not strive for something better in what we must live on in the future and the opportunities we must offer to our children? Then it is just that I have to inform the rapporteur that the rapporteur is talking, after all, about savings in both upper secondary education and higher education, which amount to some 40 billion. kr. Towards 2025. 20 billion kr. If this 2% saving continues, we will have to save on youth education. Does the rapporteur think that we can develop some of the very best education with a far, far higher quality by simply continuing with the savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152039	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152040	Yeah, I think so. These are precisely the same requirements that have been rolled out throughout the public sector, in other words on the territory of the state. It goes without saying that it is exactly 2 percentage points in efficiency that should make the difference between a good education sector and a worse education sector that is in some way lagging behind. For it is also the case that in the field of education, new ways of doing things are constantly being found, for example. teaching via the Internet. I've seen that Harvard or Yale University of the United States - I don't remember which one now has lectures that they provide worldwide via the Internet. After all, there are plenty of opportunities which also allow for savings and efficiency and better ways of doing so, and we must have those ambitions in education as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152130	Then it's mr. Karsten Hønge, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152131	As in the 1930s, we still have socially extremely unequal access to good senior years, but there is also a hell of a difference in whether you have been in bed or you have worked hard in the kitchen in the basement. Fortunately, the government has been forced to stop its antisocial plan to raise the pension limit. And since people seem to be trying to lure people into working longer, do they not end up with the same crooked social profile? For who is it that can accept the offer of just such an extension of working life? And who are the people who work on a daily basis under hard-wearing conditions in the workplace? Then I understand that the government is going to give a little hand to the Labour Inspectorate. Doesn't it just end with being glaze on this story that we have to raise the retirement age so it can slide down? Those 15-35 million. kr. will disappear like a soda ice cream on a hot summer day. Last year alone, we saw an increase in the number of serious accidents in construction from 4,500 to 5,500. Is it with the 15-35 million? kr. Not just glaze?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152243	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152244	No, it's not just glaze. And the initiatives presented by the government yesterday are an attempt to address a problem that is real, a challenge that is real and, as such, on many stretches, is a really positive challenge, namely that we live much longer than we thought we would and it is back in 2006, which, after all, is not so long ago. And if we do not somehow address the challenge that it costs a great deal of money if healthy and healthy elderly people, who have really good experience and have a great deal to contribute to the labour market, do not have to work unless we address it and just sit on their hands, it will be a really, really big bill for which we will then have to find funding. It is a priority issue. I think it is more important that, instead of paying people who are fully capable of working for nothing, they spend money either on facilitating it for business or on health or in our schools or on other core welfare tasks. I do not think it is core welfare that, if you are still away healthy and bodily, you must have money not to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152351	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152352	This leads to a serious job injury for the rapporteur, with all the knots that the rapporteur is trying to beat himself. The answer certainly had little to do with the question I raised. What it was all about was how the government intended to lift the people who work daily in a hard, grueling working environment. And, as I understand it, between 15 and 35 million people are offered. kr., after we have experienced a dramatic increase in the number of accidents at work and after we have experienced cuts at the Factory Inspectorate. In that light, I guess you can only say that they are 15-35 million. kr. pure glaze. And there are no offers to ordinary hardworking workers. They may extend their working life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152428	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152429	I would like to say two things: there is no one in my party, nor do I think I have heard it in other parties that have ever proposed that people who are physically worn out of working and therefore cannot work should work. That would also be a somewhat pointless attitude, by the way. In terms of how you can do something that prevents people from getting worn out of working because I totally acknowledge that some people do that, but then it's all about embracing the technologies that embrace the opportunities that new ways of doing things give us. Outside the world, and we should also dare to go to Denmark.There are incredibly positive things about that you, for example. have robots to do some of it that used to be very exhausting. There are a lot of possibilities in that machines perform the work which in the old days was very hard-wearing. And I hope that the rapporteur agrees with me on this, and maybe will also be a little more, what to say, open to taking on board instead of insisting that the labour market should be just as it has been for the last 50 to 60 years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152540	Thank you. Then it's mr. Erik Christensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152542	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to return to the subject of top tax relief, because I do not think we have received a very precise answer from the rapporteur here today. One can say that one is allowed to dream, and then talk about if one had 90 mandates, but now it is probably not just around the corner that the Liberal Alliance gets 90 mandates. So if we now return to the real world, the world we are in right now, what are the demands of the Liberal Alliance in relation to top tax relief? Is it the 5% that the party used as a red line before they joined the government? Is it still gone the red line for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152630	Of course, the same question can be asked in many different ways. I simply do not think I can answer more clearly than I do. The Liberal Alliance believes that the top tax should be removed. That is the wish, that is the political ambition with which we go to all negotiations. I think that is what I hope all parties do when you have to negotiate something, so that you take your policy into the backpack and take it with you and hope to get as far as possible. This is the reality that rests on the shoulders of all of us. But it is clear that we, as a party, all the places we can get away with it, are fighting for the removal of the top tax, that goes without saying. Anything else would be weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152713	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152714	What a lot is being said about red lines today. I heard the rapporteur's party colleague Joachim B. Olsen put a lot of questions to Mrs Pernille Skipper about a red line from the Enhedslisten. That's why I want the Liberal Alliance to be as precise as Joachim B. Olsen wanted others to be. What is the red line in relation to top tax concessions in the forthcoming negotiations for the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152740	The Liberal Alliance wants to abolish the top tax, and when we go to negotiations, our aim is to get as far with our policy as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152753	The last question we have to make to this rapporteur is Mr Beazley. Lars Aslan Rasmussen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152758	Thanks for the speech. I think a little was missing because there was not much about the environment other than about some plastic bags and empty bottles. That, of course, is also okay when you have to review all the figures in Monopoly. For those of us who, like the Prime Minister, have not seen Monopoly 20 times, it is nice to have the grades reviewed again. I would like to ask about the environment, because now we can talk about it. Now the Liberal Alliance has come into government and I would like to ask whether the rapporteur agrees with the Liberal Alliance's environmental rapporteur, Carsten Bach, who says that climate change is a natural part of the Earth's cycle. Is it the view of the Liberal Alliance that they are not man-made and that they are not pollution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152841	I haven't heard sir. Carsten Bach says that climate change is not man-made. What I have noted in that debate is that there is very much confusion about what is what. I believe that there is no reason to assume anything other than that human behavior has an impact on the climate. Then, of course, it is a political task what we can do to mitigate the negative consequences of human behaviour on the climate. There it is the very clear conviction of my and the Liberal Alliance that it is a task that we must undertake internationally, recognising that the climate is not only above Denmark but globally. That is why it is important, I think, that Denmark has a strong voice in this area and also internationally and takes it seriously that if you have to raise this issue, it is something that you do with binding agreements and international agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152936	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152938	Okay. The rapporteur cannot, of course, read everything, but may I ask whether the rapporteur is aware of Joachim B. Olsen's statements that there are also positive things about climate change, among other things. that new shipping routes open up north and that fewer people die of cold. Is that also the Liberal Alliance's attitude towards the environment and climate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152954	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531152955	I do not know the quotations to which the author refers. What I can say is that the Liberal Alliance believes that climate change is real and creates real problems and that there are some problems that we need to resolve internationally. More clearly, I do not think I can say that, regardless of what the questioner had to pull out of quotes. We believe that this is a real challenge and a real problem, and we believe that it is something that Denmark, in cooperation with other countries in the world, must commit to and resolve jointly, because it is by its very nature a cross-border issue. Therefore, Denmark cannot solve it alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531153041	Then we can thank the rapporteur. And we're ready to pass the baton on to mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531153053	Thank you. You almost want to change your speech completely and talk about the unfortunate announcements coming from the United States in these hours that Trump might turn his thumb down to the Paris Agreement. We should hope not prove to be true, because that would certainly be a disaster. Nevertheless, I will stick to the speech I had prepared. What I usually always try to do is talk things up, because that's something we in the alternative really like. We like to talk things up. We want to talk about everything that we think makes sense in terms of creating a sustainable transition. We are doing as much as we can, but this presupposes that there is something to speak up and that there is something worth speaking up. And, unfortunately, when I look back at the year that has passed, there are not many things that we think it is worth speaking up, and that is something my speech will bear in mind. During the year we have heard the Prime Minister repeat that the government wants to increase the security of its citizens, and that is something we can only support, because security is a good thing. However, it has turned out that not all citizens will be the ones for whom the government wants to increase security. At any rate, I do not believe that the families affected by the cash aid ceiling in October feel safe today. Nor do I believe that much talk about the deterioration of the SU and a higher retirement age has increased the security of the students or of the worn-out worker approaching retirement age. I could say the same about our children and grandchildren, because it certainly does not increase the security of them that a majority in the Danish Parliament has concluded a new North Sea agreement which provides tax relief to Mærsk and weakens the green transition. Nor can it be said that it increases security that the same parties have chosen to abolish the PSO I am aware that the different parties have different intentions with it, but the fact is that the abolition is going to increase Denmark's emissions of CO2 And is it really a price worth paying right now, when the climate crisis has never been more serious? My colleague Mr. René Gade usually says that he sees the entire Folketing as a kind of national team to play together. But if we're supposed to be a national team, we're a couple of things. We need a tactic for the entire Danish national political team. The Prime Minister tried earlier without much success on a 2025 plan, and now he's trying again. Last time things did not go so well, and that was the plan that one of the Left rapporteurs thought was so brilliant that it could be compared to Michael Laudrup's famous dribble tour at the 1986 World Cup. I do not know much about football, but I have been able to read that in the final round in question Denmark ended up losing 1-5 to Spain after a terrible error from a Jesper Olsen and the question is then in fact whether not both the government's first and second 2025 plans are more similar to mistakes from Olsen than geniuses from Laudrup. After all, in many ways it has been a year in the sign of error, and I think that one might actually be able to talk about self-image. It was a self-target to implement the cash aid ceiling because Denmark does not become a richer society by creating more poor people. It was a self-target to remove the aid and not to correct the mistakes made in relation to the electric cars, because more electric cars are a prerequisite for creating a society based on renewable energy. It was a self-target to abolish the PSP, because you have to pay a reasonable price to do damage to our climate, environment and nature. Creating the North Sea Agreement was a self-targeted goal because the agreement reduces the possibilities of keeping the global temperature increase below the required 2 degrees. It was a self-aim to introduce restrictions on foreigners that are at odds with human rights, because human rights are among the most important elements of a democratic society. Earlier this year, the Alternative presented a public school initiative. And here we suggested, among other things, that we would like to reduce or actually completely eliminate the use of characters. We did so because we want to reduce performance anxiety and stress among students, and because we want a better and more motivating and constructive evaluation culture. Unfortunately, the proposal was not welcomed very well by the government • On the contrary, I understand that ministers love grades. And since ministers love grades and we are at a time when many young people are at exams and sweat to get the best grades, I think I will give some of the ministers a character and some feedback for the work they have done. Before I start, I have to say that not all ministers have been in the exam this year, but I think that everyone should listen because it may be that they can use the feedback next year. The first person to attend the exam is the Minister of Education. The Minister of Education has submitted a synopsis on the future school system. The task is characterised by great autonomy and it is clear that the Minister has a great deal of knowledge about the method and professional content of the subject. Censor, who in this case is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, is particularly enthusiastic about the chapter on freeing primary school. Here the Minister proposes, among other things: to guide the binding learning objectives of the reform of primary schools, and this deserves great praise. Overall, the Minister stands for a 7-figure before the oral exam, and at that time the Minister can score higher or lower depending on the performance. For example, in order to gain a higher character, the Minister can present a serious suggestion on how to reduce stress and poor wellbeing of teachers and pupils, or the Minister can make a presentation on how the national tests are abolished, and this is something we know the Minister has previously written essays about. The next live image to be examined is the Minister of Justice. The minister has delivered a written assignment called "Bander" behind bars. In addition to the colourful and creative title, the task is filled with suggestions on how to punish prisoners harder, and therefore the problem with the task is not the lack of creativity, but rather the fact that it is perhaps just creative enough. Indeed, many of the proposals directly contradict what leading theorists and researchers in the curriculum recommend. But I can read that to the Minister who does not give a damn, because it is clear from the task that the question of rehabilitation is not the Minister's concern. And, of course, it doesn't work at all when you hand in an exam paper. There are some interesting perspectives in the end about the abolition of the blasphemy clause, but in spite of that, it is no more than the character 00. The next assessment concerns a group examination, namely for the Minister for Health and Equal Opportunities. One of the positive things about their task is that ministers have actually had the courage to finally get transsexuality out of the list of mental illnesses. Also the section on combating homophobia in sport is something that makes a great impression, because it is important to be inclusive of everyone regardless of sexual orientation in sport. After voting with a censor, we have chosen to give the group a two. We know that the group had hoped for more, but there is still hope, because there are a few years left for the exam. However, if the nature is to be lifted, it is necessary to do a new and perhaps more project-oriented task, which is about alternative treatment, medical cannabis and perhaps also earmarked maternity leave for men. The next group is the Minister for Climate and the Minister for the Environment, and unfortunately nothing very good has come out of that group examination. In addition to a pool of money for sustainable fish production and aquaculture, the only positive thing I can say about the task is that they have written it themselves. Nevertheless, the result is disappointing, as the task is filled with errors and incorrect use of the curriculum. In particular, the chapters on the new North Sea Agreement, the abolition of PSOs, the deterioration of electric cars, etc. This is simply due to misunderstandings, which is why we have no alternative but to ask the group to change the school year. The last person to graduate is the PM. And since the Prime Minister is the only 3rd G, the Prime Minister is also the only one who has handed in an SRP task which bears the title of the 2025 plan. We have only managed to skim the latest task, but we can already see that it looks like something we have seen in the past, and that is why we can repeat ourselves. The best thing we can highlight is the chapter on new technologies and entrepreneurship, which unfortunately has not been sufficiently developed in this task. Although there are positive things, we must say that the Prime Minister has not passed. The chapters on reshuffling the SU, reducing the conditions for pensioners, people who come to the country and refugees count very much down. But the Prime Minister has not failed either, because it seems that there is a procedural error in the delivery process. It simply lacks some completely mandatory sections on climate, environment, nature and green transitions and this is, of course, a prerequisite for being able to submit exams. Here the rules of the Danish Parliament are no different than they are at the Academy of Fine Arts Design and Architects' School, where of course you also always have the 17 world goals in your final project assignment. So, on this basis, we give the Prime Minister an extra chance, and the Prime Minister must go home and prepare for a reexamination, which will be held on the first Tuesday of October. And I would recommend the Prime Minister to spend the summer holiday diligently to follow up on the chapters that are so lame. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154050	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is considerable interest in the presentation. Mr President, the first brief comment is that of Mr Seligman. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154102	Thank you, President, and thank you very much to the Alternative's rapporteur for an exciting speech with a funny angle. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist starts by saying that the alternative is happy to speak things up and then goes on to say: if there is any reason to do so; and there is simply no reason to do so in any area. He then continues, and I acknowledge the amusing element of the character comparison, with the view here that everyone else around the alternative has simply not understood a flap of anything. If you meet more than five people in a day that hasn't understood anything, it's not them. I simply have to say that. The alternative claims that government policy creates more poor people, that is to say, the ceiling on cash aid we are talking about here. A couple on cash benefits with two children have paid out after tax 23,600 DKK. each month. How much does that number have to do before the alternative is satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154212	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154216	No, you have to be careful not to think that others aren't right. The truth quite often lies somewhere in the middle of the people who talk to each other, and of course I think that is an important starting point. When I mention all these things, it is because we think that there are a number of areas where the policy is going in the wrong direction. I am not going to say an amount for how much money somebody in society should have or not have. I know that this is a way that you think you can get more people into work, namely by making them poor, now, at the latest, in the latest version of the 2025 plan, to cut yet another 2%. in the integration service. I simply do not think this is the way to build our society. I think we should look at how we create a proper basis for all people to be able to live on, and you can't stand with these examples that there are these two cash aid recipients with x number of children living in y city in x apartment under j rental conditions, and they get this sum of money. We have to stop thinking that it's with these ways of cutting people's services that we're creating a richer society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154321	The rapporteur says I should not stand here and answer... Yes, because that is what I am asking. Now I was kind enough to answer the questions as well as I could get away with the previous one, and I also have the expectation that the alternative will respond with more than plunder and hot air to the questions we are asking here in the Danish Parliament. Now it's been two years, when you've been able to dance yourself out of everything, but now it's time to answer some questions. How much money do you need when you're on cash benefits? 23,600 kroner. Because a couple isn't enough. How much is enough, and where will that money come from? So we have to get some answers from the alternative at some point in time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154405	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154406	It is a pity if the questioner has only seen the alternative dance, since we have seen for example. in writing. - (FR) The proposal for a financial regulation, which is fully funded, runs over the next four years, in which we are rolling back the cuts in services introduced by the government. So it is very clear that we want to get back to the level that was before this government started cutting benefits. It's in our financial bill. I can try to see if I can dance it, if that's what it takes for the questioner to notice that it is there, otherwise I can send the link, because it can actually be read on our website.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154442	Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154444	Well, that's fine, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist in this way comes to, I think it was the oral exam. It is such a final debate where questions are asked. I was thinking, when I saw the reports from the recent national meeting of the Alternative, that there might be a lot more insight into the alternative. I wasn't really. The question is whether it was for a two. At least when it came to informing the public, I think it was a little lame. There was, among other things. in one place where it particularly lagged, and that was when one had to answer the question of who the alternative would point to after a parliamentary election. Because the question was put very clearly by journalists, namely whether to point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister after an election. That would not be answered, but a counter-question was asked: I wonder who Mrs Mette Frederiksen is pointing to? And I think we really know that. I think she intends to point to herself. I think that's pretty clear to most people in here. If it is not clear to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, we could possibly induce a social democrat to say if that is not true. But what does the alternative want? Who will the alternative point to? I think that is a relevant question to ask, and now we can find out here for the oral exam whether we can get an answer that is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154600	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154601	First, I will reply to what I did three days ago, one month ago, three months ago, six months ago and 12 months ago, namely that we are not pointing to any person now. We are two years into a parliamentary term. There is a government with a parliamentary basis that has two years to go before elections. Why do we have to start conducting government negotiations now? I just don't understand. When we throw the question back, as Mr. Uffe Elbæk did in his speech at the meeting, so it is clear that it is also about how to cooperate and who you cooperate with. I do not think that the Social Democratic Party will be given 90 seats and thus be able to sit all alone with the government, but that they will have to cooperate with some others on this if they are going to the taboos.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154645	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154646	Boom, that's where we went from a 2 to 0. This is pseudo, it's pseudo. After all, no one expects the alternative to appear after election and to say that they are not pointing to any kind of action, since no one believes in it. We are out there, as I also said to Mrs Pernille Skipper from the Enhedslisten, that you puff yourself up and want some media time that you want some publicity. But when it comes to substance, there is nothing in it, because the alternative does not imagine that the mandates of the alternative do not count. So you have to come up with something better than the fact that you have to look at it at a later time and something like that. Or what political conditions must be met in order to point out to Mrs Mette Frederiksen, who everyone knows that the mandates of the alternative will, of course, end up pointing out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154743	Now the alternative does not pursue policy to make Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl happy. We have the political answers that we think are right. And when we say that we want to talk about a political direction, because we want Denmark to move in a more sustainable direction, to fight inequality, then that is what we are talking about with the people with whom we must work. I do not need to stand and name it, two years before the term of office is over. I think it is absurd to hear the questions that Mrs Pernille Skipper should answer about whom she will point out. I think it is absurd to hear the questions that came to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur about when it is enough in relation to top tax. We know the policy of the Liberal Alliance in relation to it, and they are going to negotiate with it. I am entering political talks on the basis of the political manifesto on which I have been elected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154831	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154833	Thank you. Well, in general terms, I would like to give the alternative quite good marks for the cooperation that Enhedslisten and the Alternative have. Once I have taken the floor, it is to ask something for which I will then give the alternative a little less high marks and something that has puzzled me a lot. It is true that the alternative voted very recently in favour of this envoy of 200 Danish combat troops for NATO's advance position along the Russian border, that is to say a Danish participation in the arms race which is taking place both from Russia and NATO in the Baltic and, unfortunately, also in Poland and Romania. I am a little surprised that the alternative supported it, because both the Enhedslisten and the Alternative and the Nordic Left had together made a statement back in March where we criticised this particular arms race and called for development to be reversed So what is it that makes the alternative change of mind in this matter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531154940	In fact, I also think it was a really, very difficult matter to take a position on, but what we know is that the NATO partners with whom we are together are in a situation where they feel really, really pressured and they are asking for help and support. There we went in and thought it was right to send troops over there to show that we are standing with the partners we have over there. However, as the questioner has said, it is not for us such a simple question that was answered in a split second. In fact, this was something we discussed very deeply. But we are also talking to political colleagues in the Baltic, who tell us that the situation is really, really difficult and really hard for them to live with. And that's why we ended up saying that we actually want to back them up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155029	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155030	Well, I'm worried about the consequences of the arms race that's going on right now. And if it ends in an open conflict, and there is always a danger that it does, when you have an arms race, it will not least affect the Baltic States. I must therefore also say that I am surprised that the alternative has taken this position. It is not the first time that NATO has asked for anything. So what we saw from the reply from the Foreign Minister in relation to this matter was the risk that the Russians might follow up with further armament, and the government cannot rule out the possibility that one would then come from Denmark and build another armament. Will the alternative also support it? Or where would you like to draw the line in the sand against the arms race that is going on right now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155119	It's only after we've actually thought this through and talked to people in the Baltics that we decide on something like this. It is not just because NATO is asking us to send troops that we say yes. We take a position on a case-by-case basis, and we did so here after such really deep reflections. Because I share the fear that it is an arms race that continues and continues and to the end ends in conflict. We believe it was necessary to take seriously the great concern in the Baltic countries and say: okay, then we send 200 troops to show our support for them. That's the way we assessed this case was handled best.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155157	Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155159	Thank you. What went wrong in the Danish-Spain match in 1986 was not a self-target; it was that the Danes turned in across a pressure situation. Now we've been at the exam, and then you have to try to see if you've learned anything from the exam, and maybe the government parties can also get better at not handing over to a player in their own defenses in a pressure situation, so we'll try to listen to that. But that's not what I wanted to say. It was that I did not hear the rapporteur say anything about the fight against bureaucracy, and that is where we have had very good cooperation with the alternative. So what has been the alternative to thinking about the issue of combating bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155241	I also mentioned that it was about a bug drop in that famous fight; I've never seen it, I've had to read it on various postings on the web. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, we fully share that ambition. After all, we've done it together in the past, and it's exactly the same ambitions we still have. I know that my good colleague, Mrs Josephine Fock, is still working very hard on how we can do this in practice; in other words, how can we in practice help the state, but also the municipalities, to debureaucratise. So that's something we're still really, really preoccupied with, but it wasn't in my speech. There are other things that were not included in my speech, which I would have liked to have had with me, but that cannot be achieved in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155324	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155326	But what has been the problem, in particular, has been that among other things. We in the Liberal Alliance and the Alternative have agreed that the Folketing has a dull tendency to disclaim responsibility for its share in the emergence of bureaucracy. Will the alternative also help in the future to promote this matter, i.e. that the Folketing also has some sort of responsibility for ensuring that bureaucracy does not become worse than it needs to be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155355	Yes, of course, and indeed. I also said municipalities and states. We are going to look at it at all levels. How is it possible to do something about it? And even if we did not get everyone on this standing committee on de-bureaucratisation, it is of course something we want to work on so much, because it is really important that we have the rules that exactly need to be in order for us to have the society that we want and not have unnecessary rules that are actually going to put a brake on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155421	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155422	I fully share that concern, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist expressed the common global climate agreement and the development of relations with the United States. In fact, I also very much agree with Mr Seligman. Holger K. Nielsen, who said earlier that it only strengthens the need for strong European cooperation. But of course it also strengthens the need for us in Denmark to continue our green transition, and it has a price. I think it is a real investment for future generations, and I am also sure that it is a wise investment with a high return when the shortage of resources really comes into play. After all, it is an investment, and that requires a willingness to act. That is why my question to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist actually just: If it is true, as the government writes in its plan, that the room for manoeuvre that has been created is what is needed only to maintain the welfare we know, does it not also require a willingness to raise new income if we are to invest in the green transition and if we in Denmark really are to address the challenge and continue to inspire the world?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155531	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155532	It does so, and that is also why we made a financial act back in the autumn, called "TAL" for a better society and actually moving at 120 billion. kr. to a green transition to a socially sustainable society without touching any room for manoeuvre at all. Because it can be done if you give priority to it. And we believe it is necessary to look at how we prioritise and not just believe that happiness has been achieved by increasing the supply of labour. Because it's just that there are more people to take the jobs that are. We believe that we are going through a time of automation, etc., when we also need to look at how we share the work that is, so we have actually made a move about how we can invest in serious sustainable conversion. And I would really like to see us discussing this on the basis that it is not always just about the old grip, but that there are also new gripes in looking at what it is like to turn up the tax on resources and so on, which is also being talked about in Germany and France.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155625	Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155626	Yes, and that is something that can be discussed, and that is something that should be considered on an ongoing basis, in other words, how the tax system can be used to promote a green transition as well. But my point is simply that I think it is important to make it clear that if you do not have the ability and the will to obtain new income, either by being able to do more work too, for example. With the help of foreign labour, which we agree will be a good idea because we will create more, like green, jobs, or in that way, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist wants it, with higher taxes, so it ends up either cutting down elsewhere in the welfare society, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which has been presented to us by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and for the excellent work done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. And that's basically just what I think is important to establish. I can't believe we can just stand by.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155728	We cannot do that, and that is why, when we present such a budget bill, there is a massive investment, for example, in entrepreneurship. There are concrete proposals on how we can help entrepreneurs and growth entrepreneurs to finance their projects and their business, and how we can also get our major pension assets working precisely for this. So we need to look at how we create new revenue all the time, and that is why we need to invest in how we create the business community of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155800	Then it's Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155801	When Denmark went to war in Iraq, it was an illegal war in my opinion and in the SF's opinion. So when we entered the government in 2011, one of the things we demanded from the government base, which also subsequently became a reality, was an Iraq Commission to assess which politicians had been involved where in the process, who had said yes to whom, and whether they were illegal. We saw similar processes in Britain and the United States, which showed quite extensively what illegal practices were involved. We wanted the same study in Denmark. That is why I must say that I was appalled, to say the least, by the fact that the alternative helped to close down the Iraq Commission. I would like to ask whether the alternative would like to explain to the Danish people how a commission could be closed, which would then have to investigate illegal acts committed by the state of Denmark to such an extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155903	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155904	I think it is really important to remember what happened down here when we discussed this. And it was that there was a majority to close this commission. We also discussed this at the opening debate and at the previous closing debate, as I recall. What we then go in and say is: how can we get the second best when we cannot get the commission that we want and that I know SF also wants? And then we went in and made an agreement which, unfortunately, was not respected by the majority with which we were working to make the agreement. But that did not happen and it was very clear in the agreement reached by the Alternative that we said that a commission should not be set up when another majority comes. Because there is a need to investigate what was going on in relation to the war that was in Iraq. So we stand by the fact that we want a commission. But we also stand by the fact that when there was a majority in favour of abolishing it, we tried to get the second best arrangement until we again have a new majority to set up this Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531155959	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160001	In general, I believe that compromises can be reached, that agreements can be made, but that a commission to investigate illegal practices in this area has been set up, I do not believe that compromise can be reached. And I would say that I really disagree with that, not least in the light of the information that came out yesterday that shows that Danish soldiers have most likely been involved in illegal activities. Does this not mean that the alternative is reconsidering its position to participate in the closure of the Iraq Commission?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160035	I must then repeat what I said, namely that there was a majority wishing to close the Iraq Commission. We participated to try to get a good study of it anyway. And as the agreement made clear, the study to be carried out would not stand in the way of an Iraq Commission when a new majority comes. So I also hope that there will be a new majority in favour of setting up the Commission to investigate what happened in Iraq. Because that's what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160104	Then it is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160107	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist gave a fine rapporteur speech, but I must also admit that I do not think there was such a great deal of this new political culture as the alternative tends to boast of. It was mostly a little bile that came out. However, I would like to ask where the rapporteur actually started, namely in the United States, where Trump has today announced that the Americans are being withdrawn from the Paris Agreement, which I believe we share the vexation about. It has to be said that when you compare with abroad, the Danish disagreements in the green area are small compared to other countries. That is why I am a little surprised that this great chronicle of the opposition blew up this disagreement. Here ten points were presented in the opposition for the climate and energy policy of the future, but I would like to ask the rapporteur how he can feel convinced that the Social Democrats will be involved in financing these points, which are not, after all, indicated in the cliché, when the Social Democratic Party has presented a 2025 plan, where there is no independent priority at all for this, and where the only thing addressed in the green area is the PSO, which the alternative was against abolishing, and in addition to maintaining the ambitions of the old energy reconciliation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160216	In fact, I think it was really important that we come out with this joint chronicle, which showed where it is that we want to go in relation to these energy negotiations that are going to be in the autumn. I think it is very important that there are five parties and that this is where we can actually meet. Then we can have different ambitions in the various areas, and that is the way it is within the government, but we point to where we want to go. And, of course, I strongly assume that the parties involved are also willing to find funding for it. It goes without saying that when you want to go somewhere, you also have to find the money to get there. And there's a lot of ways to find money for this transition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160255	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160257	Thank you. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur to reply a little more specifically to whether the rapporteur can really be confident that it is a matter of course that it will be given financial priority when it is not included in a 2025 plan, and now that the Social Democrats have chosen not to draw up a financial agreement to show that this is actually a priority. I must, however, congratulate the rapporteur's party for having actually done so. We can then disagree on the way in which funding is provided, but we are very grateful for the provision of funding. Does the rapporteur have complete tranquillity in relation to the level of ambition of social democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160331	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160332	I'm calm because I know that we've at least made a proposal for a financial bill. And I know that those who come well prepared for negotiations usually get the most through. So it may be that the Social Democracy chooses just to follow our initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160346	Thank you. Sir. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160347	Thank you. I'd like to follow up on what Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl referred to what political demands the alternative and Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist has to a possible new government led by Mrs Mette Frederiksen? Are there any specific requirements in the area of foreigners, in the social and environmental fields, which we would like to see met before, for example, pointing to Mrs Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160412	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160413	Funny, my answer will never be different because you ask again. It does, neither when it comes to Canute Brix on TV 2, nor when it's a questioner in here. I will, of course, reply to what I said the first time. We are not giving precise remarks about what it is. We are talking about the fact that we want a different political direction from the one we have now. We want a Denmark that is moving in a seriously sustainable direction. We want a Denmark that is working against the growing inequality that is now. That's what we're gonna go in and talk about. That is the direction we want for a government other than the one we have now, and that is, of course, what we are working for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160446	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160446-2	But if you can't answer who you're pointing to, and if you can't say what demands and suggestions you have, why are you here? You are almost tempted to ask. Can there not be something concrete about the political line of the alternative? Just something. There's gotta be something coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160512	Now we have a debate on charges at the moment, and we are still addressing each other in the third person. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160516	I've remembered it all the way. That's great! That's great! ) So I just have to say that we present our policy every day. We make proposals in the Chamber, we vote, we debate. That is the policy of the alternative. This is what we chose; it is what we work for every day; it is also what we work for. So it is up to the electorate who they want to support: do they want to support those who are today saying that they have two requirements, and it must be x person, or do they want to support some who want to work for a serious sustainable transition every day and who want to raise the flag for a green direction for Denmark and the debate we have? This is how we want to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160558	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160559	That's too bad, really. Then it didn't go anymore. The alternative was to be an alternative to a party that speaks up that finds the positive in other people's policies rather than stand and scold and find the negative. The alternative should be a so-called green party, not a party that was in the red block, not a party that was in the blue block, but a completely new exciting party that could vote first one, so the other based on its own alternative policy. Then we see reality. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist stands today and is sour in a sweet way and negative and criticizes and distributes flunky character to the government. When we look at the vote of the Alternative, we see that those with whom we vote most are the Enhedslisten, and those with whom we vote least are the Danish People's Party. Ninety-two percent. of all cases, the Alternative votes with either Enhedslisten or SF, and in only 41 per cent. Of all cases, you vote with the Left. I hate to say it, but if it looks like a duck, if it swims like a duck, and if it says rap like a duck, then it's probably a duck.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160715	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160716	I think, in fact, that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says it very precisely himself. We want to be a green party, yes, we want to vote green. I thought I was very clear in my speech about what it is that the government has chosen to do for a green Denmark, a green development. Of course, we are not voting against our political convictions. I was even in spite of the failing character and congratulating it on fishing, where we have actually reached a settlement where we agree. But I guess I don't have to go against my policy to satisfy Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160753	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160754	No, by no means, but simply acknowledge that the alternative has become a party like all the other sour socialists. The alternative looks like acid socialists, the alternative sounds like acid socialists, and the alternative votes as acid socialists.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160816	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160817	I am not going to comment on whether others are angry or socialists. All I have to say is that I was elected to the Danish Parliament for the Alternative. We are a green entrepreneurial party which does not believe in ideologies, either liberalism or socialism, and that is the way we work politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160835	Mrs Karina Adsbøl, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160837	Thank you. It is good to see that the rapporteur still has a smile on his face on the platform. I would like to ask what my colleague asked about the Prime Minister's candidate. What has happened since the last parliamentary elections, when the alternative pointed to Mrs Helle Thorning-Schmidt, in other words a social democrat? What has happened since the alternative will not point to the successor?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160910	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160911	It has happened that we have had an election and that we are in the middle of a parliamentary term. The last time we chose to point out a candidate to be Prime Minister, I think it was a month or perhaps a month and a half before the election we were out to say it. I know there will be no elections in Denmark in a month and a half, but it may be that the questioner knows about the Prime Minister's plans and that I do not. Then I would very much like to know, because then I have a little something I need to have planned.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160941	Mrs. Karina Adsbøl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531160943	I do not really think we can get any answers today from the alternative. It's like it's blowing in the wind. So I have to ask: what will the alternative be for a future Prime Minister's candidate? And you can give some more detailed answers. It doesn't have to be any fluffy, or what you call it today in modern Danish. Those can be some real political answers. What are you going to demand? What will be the alternative for public growth? What will the alternative to foreign policy be? Can you meet with the Social Democratic Party about that part?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161024	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161025	I simply do not recognise the premise in that question, because the last time we went to the election and now we compared before in pointing to someone we also said: we have no requirements, we have directions we want. We have a political direction and I do not think anyone in here is in doubt that social democracy and the alternative are not in agreement when it comes to foreign policy. I don't think you have to read that far down in the text to find out. So, what are we working for? We are, of course, working for our political direction. That is the way we want to go, and that is what we stand up for and what we fight for every day. I do not believe in a policy of making two demands and then working for nothing else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161106	Thank you. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161107	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Just like sir. Rasmus Nordqvist says, the alternative speaks a lot about wishes. Now I wish that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist can give me an answer. Because it can be said that the probationary period is, as it were, over for the alternative, and I hope that we can get a little closer to the policy of the alternative today. I know, of course, that the alternative is very fond of putting additional taxes on various consumer goods, including, for example, the United Kingdom. in the beef and veal sector, and increase the levy on the use of wood-burning furnaces, etc. Could Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist say something about what this will have to do with the consequences for the Danish consumer?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161155-2	I can actually do that, because, of course, in our Finance Act we have also made calculations of what it will cost to introduce our policy for the individual Dane, and looked a little thematically at what it is for some different consumers we have. There you can see that there are some who, of course, are getting rid of more expensive, because what we want to do is to regulate taxes and others who are getting rid of cheaper, because we want to raise the level of the citizens who have the least. All of this can be found under "TAL" - for a better society, which we presented last autumn, and which clearly shows that we want to use taxes because we want to use them to create a serious sustainable transition for Denmark. We think that's the right way to do it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161241	Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161242	Thank you for your answer. Then I also assume that the alternative has, of course, examined what consequences it will have for cross-border trade when the alternative imposes increased taxes on unhealthy goods. We, who live in South Jutland, know what consequences it will have if it is the case that it will be cheaper to pick up the goods south of the border. If unhealthy goods are taxed at home and become more expensive, there will immediately be a regular service between South Jutland and south of the border. What does this have to do with the consequences for small merchants and, for that matter, for jobs in, among others. South Jutland, if you increase taxes on unhealthy goods?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161325-2	Well, we have been able to see here lately, when taxes on soft drinks, for example, have been raised or reduced, that it has not had much impact on cross-border trade. So the charges we are proposing will go in to regulate behaviour, but it will have no major effect on border trade. It didn't have it last time the tax on soda was lowered. It didn't make the border trade disappear. So, yes, we have also looked at the effects it has on border trade, and that is not something that frightens us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161353	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161355	It was unpleasant to hear that speech. I'd been out of school 50 years ago, because my grades weren't so good back then. That's why I'm in favour of not having grades. I would like to say that détente must be the goal when we look at conflicts, and also the conflict resolution that is needed. That is why I am also surprised that the alternative voted in favour of sending 200 combat troops over to the Baltic, since it only has an elevated effect. That is why I think: what plans do we see in the alternative for a relaxation process instead of stepping up? Because I believe that 200 soldiers will be answered by 200 to 300 soldiers from the other side, and then the government will come and say that you must have more soldiers or heavier weapons over there. How are we gonna make that spiral go down instead of up?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161452	Well, again, I would like to stress that this was not an easy decision, but we thought that it was not just about the great conflict, it was also about the people who live in the Baltic with whom we spoke and who say: this is actually something we want because we are afraid. At the same time, of course, we go in and say that every time we are out, whether it is here or in Mali, which we also supported sending UN troops to work on several levels. We also need to work on conflict resolution, and this is something that we would like to see strengthened even more both by Denmark, but also by the EU, Nordic and NATO, in terms of how we use conflict management and conflict resolution to a greater extent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161537	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161538	But there is, of course, a world of difference between UN troops, which can be conflict-creating and-solving and then NATO troops, which are outright offensive. I have calculated it a little, because a few years ago we had the luck of getting 25 million. kr. set aside at the University of Copenhagen for peace and conflict resolution. They're running out now. In case we took the 140 million. kr., it costs to send the 200 soldiers over there that's what the government says it costs then there would be money for the same level of conflict resolution at the University of Copenhagen for the next 17 years. Does it not give food for thought that we might have contributed much, much more by investing just a little more? We are investing virtually nothing in conflict and peace resolution in Denmark at the moment. 17 years would be in research capacity if we spent the 140 million. kr. On it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161625	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161626	Well, that makes such an impression. I also believe that, having said yes to A, we must also do B, which means that, of course, we must continue research and development in conflict management, and there is money for that too. I just don't think a no to sending the troops over there would have allowed me to get the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of State to send that money to the University of Copenhagen. I just don't think so. However, I would very much like to help find the money for it, because it is absolutely crucial that we scale up the entire work on conflict management and research in conflict management.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161709	Thank you. Then it's mr. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161713	Thank you for that and thank you for an alternative way of speaking, namely as a censor to give grades to other parties. I thought that was refreshing and exciting, although I thought that the censor was perhaps a bit angry, as Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen also mentioned. This leads me to ask about the PRS tax and the logic of the PSO tax. When you're a censor, you're judging whether there's logic in the things the student says. Does the student reason? Is there a conclusion that corresponds to what the student put forward in the problem formulation? Here, the hypothesis is, of course, that the abolition of the PSO tax gives rise to an increase in CO2 I think it was mentioned a great many times in the speech. Now it is the case that the PRS tax has gone mainly to wind turbines, and when you set up an extra windmill based on the PRS tax, it means that there will be a quota left over in the European quota system. That quota is then sold to another country, which then oozes somewhere else. Therefore, it must be said that it is a very alternative logic and therefore a dumping character if there is a clear link between the abolition of the PSO tax and an increase in CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161833	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161833-2	Now I would like to stress that I was an examiner and I had censors inside the various tasks. But I can tell you that the Climate Council, as I usually tend to lean quite a lot against it, is that some wise people think it will increase by 3.1 million. t CO2 relative to PRS. I think that is quite serious figures. The Climate Council is someone I trust. In fact, some people have factual knowledge that we can lean on and know what this is about. So that's the knowledge I'm leaning on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161913	Sir. Villum Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531161914	There was little answer to the substance of my question. Is it the case that the alternative generally professes to be economic theory? When I ask about this, it is because it very often has the consequence that companies move elsewhere to produce if they are charged costs, for example. The PRS tax, which is a very high cost. I am quite sure that in Denmark we have one of the most stringent environmental legislation, so that when companies produce in another country, you can go to achieve just the opposite if you completely do not care how many taxes you impose on companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162002	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162003	We have strict environmental legislation and, in fact, we know that our companies are happy because they know the long-term plan: where do we want to go as a society? That's what they're planning. That's what they're investing for. When we abolish the PSO, which is, in fact, a good principle that those who pollute pay, those who burden the climate, pay, and that they help to pay for the conversion that we all need, I am sorry that a majority has chosen to abolish something that was a source of funding for the conversion to renewable energy and, at the same time, set the level that is needed to ensure that energy efficiency is also achieved, etc. in the business world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162045	Then it's Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162046	Thank you. I listened very carefully here today and understand that the rapporteur will not say who the alternative will point to after the next elections. But that must mean that it is because several options are being considered. I would therefore like to know whether the rapporteur will explain which other prime minister candidates are being considered in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162104	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162105	Well, we say today, as we also said up to 12 months ago, that we do not mention any people we point to. We see that we need to work together in the current opposition because it is they we can see that we want in the same direction as we just need to be completely agreed on the political project we want. And then I just have to say that I think it is a pity that we are cooking Danish politics down to being two names. I simply think it is a pity that we cannot recognise that we are nine political parties here in the Folketing, each of which has our own political manifesto on which we have gone to the polls and which we will implement. That must be the interesting and not just two people, although they can be quite so sweet and exciting.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162149	Mrs. Louise Schack Elholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162149-2	Now I think it is fair enough that people are told who they are, they are actually pointing to what direction the parties want, but as I understand it, the rapporteur says that it must still be in the red block, but that it is not necessarily Mrs Mette Frederiksen or Mr Frederiksen. Lars Løkke Rasmussen. You want to look at it wider. That's why I'm curious to hear how many prime minister candidates Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist imagines there is and who it is. Well, can you point there? Is there an agreement that some specific ones are being looked at?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162223	No, as I have said several times, I think it is irrelevant to talk about people, both about 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 different people. This is about what kind of political project it is, what direction we want to take our society in. That's what we're talking about today. There are two years in the elections, and again I have to say that on the questions I get, it seems as if the Prime Minister is planning to issue an election and that I have not been told. I would very much like to know if it is, because I haven't had posters printed or anything yet, so it's urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162251	Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162253	Thank you. Now comes a question from a happy socialist. Well, I've made it a habit to ask Mr. Knox. Rasmus Nordqvist questions about the children's and school areas in these debates. And I had actually run out of ideas until the alternative came up with their new school play. Here I could read that the Alternative will loop history, social sciences and natural sciences and replace them with climate and sustainability, citizenship, art and culture and recognition. I simply do not understand that. I do not understand how one thinks that the Danish primary school can in future do without physics, geography and biology. Although I believe that climate and sustainability are important, it cannot in itself replace physics, geography, biology and the basic knowledge of it. Although I believe that citizenship is important, I do not see how it is to replace historical knowledge and social sciences. So will the rapporteur not explain how one thinks that students will still be given the basic knowledge in the future if one wants to abandon them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162357	I'm gonna be a little upset, but now that I'm done up here, I'm gonna have to come down with a present for Mr. Kim. Jacob Mark, because then he can also read the playout itself. It doesn't say you have to loop it. It says that we want to introduce new subjects into school, which provide a more up-to-date and therefore a more relevant framework for the subjects, and then comes the whole list, as Mr. Jacob Mark mentioned it. What is important to us is what framework we set up for the school and for the subjects. So it's not about looping anything; it's about setting up some new frames.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162426	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162427	I've read the whole playout. The rapporteur can be sure of that. And I think it's exciting. But I don't understand. What is the framework that needs to be set up? Do they have to hit instead of geography, physics and biology? Should citizenship replace history and social science? How is this to be organised in the future? Now the rapporteur said that we want a shorter school day in the future, and that means taking something away from the primary school that is today, that the pupils should have fewer hours, so I just have to ask: how should there be time for both more climate, environment and sustainability, art and culture and recognition, while at the same time making school day shorter?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162507	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162508	It is for us how we set up a framework for thinking the subjects across, thinking out of the silos and giving the individual school and the individual teacher better opportunities to work across the communities in which they are part of with other teachers. That's what we want with this game. And that is why we write very specifically that we want to provide more up-to-date and relevant framework for the subjects. That's what these four blocks are all about: how do we think these subjects across, so you risk history with social sciences and it doesn't get split up? Unfortunately, the curricula and curricula that have been drawn up are very rigid. The reform of primary school that has been carried out is very square. We want to soften that up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162547	Thank you to the rapporteur. Time has passed, so that was the last question and the last answer. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531162559	What's up, you guys out there? You are tempted to say in this festival time. So I had to try if it worked here, too, because there was a bit of a dead mood. If you are a somewhat reformal radical Spelt general, you can shed a tear when you get such a 2025 plan in your hand, and that is not because I agree with everything that was said, but when I came to page 10, I was so pleased and proud of the mention of the housing tax agreement, because it said that it brings about an improvement in the Danish economy in the years when we have the major deficits. Now I am the third radical leader who has tried to convince the Left that it was a bad idea with the housing tax freeze, but I am the first to stand here at the parliamentary graduation debate and to thank the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Social Democrats for the joint abolition of the tax freeze, and we have black and white that it improves the Danish economy because we stopped hollowing down housing taxes. This is good because it allows us to do more of what is needed in the future. But it is also interesting for another reason. I could, of course, but I will resist the temptation to say that none of you talked about it in the election campaign. I was a little alone with that, for it is behind us, but it is interesting, because exactly the housing tax stop has been something that has been talked about decided choices, something that has been talked about, which was really a hot potato. I would like to admit that I remember from the election campaign that it was not so popular to talk about, and people rolled around and wanted to shake hands with each other that it was sacrosanct, not to tamper with the tax freeze. But then, in broad cooperation, we have succeeded in reaching an agreement on a future housing tax system and a tax system in which we come out of the miserable regime we were in, improving the public economy, and I do not see that the streets are filled with angry homeowners, not even angry conservatives standing out there protesting. In fact, it has just happened that, because we have stood together to face an important challenge, we have solved a problem. And that is interesting, because it is almost magic that something that has separated the waters and definitely election campaigns can now be seen to have a concrete solution that we can all be happy with, and with which those who follow us, when the great deficits are waiting out there, will be delighted. Therefore, my first message to you is that we can of course make Denmark bigger, of course we can make Denmark stronger, greener and more spacious if we want, and if we dare work together instead of throwing ourselves into the blue or red trenches. And I guess that's why we're here, so to see if we can make a difference to those who have a harder time than ourselves, and to those who come after ourselves. And there is no surprise when we have followed the questions that we have put on the radical side today, that, to us, education is the crucial answer to the major challenges we face. There are plenty of places in Danish society where we can see there is a need to do more than we do today. Let us just take the whole question of negative social inheritance or chance. I agree with the Prime Minister who said in his speech today that it is so crucial that it is not where you are born or that it is your parents' social background that determines what opportunities you have in life. But that is far too much today in the world's most advanced welfare societies. And there are some who say, and I think that's right, that the first 1,000 days of a child's life are the most important. But why is that not where we invest, why is that not where we drop extra resources? Why do we not put more skilled educators to give the children who have had a difficult start in life the same opportunities as our own children, who have probably been much more privileged. We can all experience that our children are facing challenges, and we need skilled professionals to help solve them, but that is not the case today, and if we are to do something about it, we must prioritise it. This also applies to a primary school, which must give everyone confidence in their own opportunities when we enter a world full of change. We must strengthen the competences that we have almost forgotten, with those that will greatly influence the future, creativity, the critical sense, the creative power, the ability to work together, that is, some of what we are most proud of in the Danish education system, and which many observers say will greatly influence the future. That is one of the things we need to strengthen more. We need to bring all young people, not least the young people at risk, but it does not help anything if, with green harvesting savings, the opportunities for educational institutions to do something extra with mentors or extra help, or whatever it may be, support teachers, what they are, in our high schools, our hf and our vocational schools. All the extra that you can do for those who need it is the first thing that smokes when you're just facing cuts. We must train more and better, but we will not do so if we limit the opportunities for young people. It is a paradox that it can be said that in future we should not be content with just one education, and then, on the same day as the Prime Minister stands and says it in front of Marienborg, a ceiling on education is adopted in this Parliament. We have to drop this educational reindalism that sneaks in everywhere, throwing away the best in the education system and financing other things by pulling money out of it, but instead believing that what has created a great Denmark, all the times we have been challenged, both the first, the second and the third industrial revolution, and therefore also now that it is the fourth that we are facing is when we invest in each other, for the future we shape ourselves, and education has always given better opportunity when we have given it priority in relation to the next generations. But there is so much we want, and there are so many we want to do in this Parliament, but the reality is that if we want more, we must also be able to pay it. That is why we are openly talking about a generational gift where those who can stay a little longer on the labour market so that we can invest instead of cutting back on the opportunities we give to their children and grandchildren. What's the alternative? Yes, it is a petty policy, it is that those who have the least must pay with a ceiling on cash benefits and integration benefits, and we see more measures now directed at the sick, the early retirementists, those who have to hold for when the government has no chance of obtaining a majority for those things that could really make a difference. That is the policy we have seen in practice, it is the one we can expect more of if there is no other atmosphere at Christiansborg. That is why I think the Prime Minister is a little in the role of the second-hand dealer today. It's kind of like, if I paint the tires and buzz like an engine, then I guess no one's gonna find out that we've stopped, but that's what's happening. The conclusion here at the end of the debate is that we have stalled, that the Danish Parliament, with the exception of the Housing Tax Agreement, has not been able to solve major problems and start shaping the future. We could also see that in the Circus building a good week ago, because Wallmans and Cabaret were just displaced by another show for a single day. It was new players, but it was still gone with sabers and line dancers and the man with the two heads. It was all for places that were party and color, and what was the message? Yes, the message we saw on social democratic campaign videos, the message was: don't! Maybe that's the dividing line. Should we not, or should we do more? Should we make Denmark bigger, or should we not? It was probably a good party, and it is well avoided that the Danish People's Party needed to celebrate that they had like pulled the plug on the government they brought to the world so that they could not conduct their economic policy, but what they did not tell was that there was not a single good news for the worn out. If we prevent healthy people from remaining longer in the labour market, it will not be possible to do anything more for those who are worn out as we would like. I am happy to receive criticism when we disagree, but do not give us any views that we do not have. We have never said that the worn-out should stay longer in the labour market; what we have wanted was for those who could stay a little longer, because then we could do something more for our children and grandchildren, then we could do something more for those who deserve to retire a little earlier. I recognise that there may not have been so much praise to the Prime Minister, but I still think there is a Leftman who should be praised on such a day as today. It is one who wants to make Denmark bigger, one with foresight and an appetite for the future, a man with vision and faith in international cooperation, especially about the global economy, a man who got at odds with his boss because he prioritized the broad cooperation. I am thinking, of course, of the Finance Minister of the Left, Mr Thorkil Kristensen, who, from 1950 to 1953, under the nickname Thorkil Livrem, led a fiscal policy in which he was fed. He then came at odds with the then Prime Minister because he said: I do not want to be involved in bourgeois block politics, now we need to work together across the middle. It then led to a dull break with the Left at some point. Hopefully this will not go wrong, but my call to the Prime Minister is: Putting an end to eating is a good principle, we must stick to that, and working together broadly instead of putting ourselves in block politics is an even better principle for shaping the future, which is why my call is today: Drop now block policy, do not lock up with the Danish People's Party, invite us with others, the people deserve us to create broad solutions, and we work together with those who want to make Denmark bigger. We are Denmark's education party, Denmark's international party and Denmark's green conscience, and if you want to move in our direction, we are always ready. Therefore, on behalf of the Radical Left, I would like to make the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that higher ambitions are needed for a society with more opportunities for everyone. This requires that we dare to give priority to our children, young people and education. With demographic developments, the scope created for reform is only sufficient to maintain the current level of welfare. The Danish Parliament therefore calls on the government to start ambitious and broad cooperation on long-term agreements to ensure that planned savings in education and research are replaced by more investments in better day care institutions, schools and education and more knowledge and green conversion. Rather than targeting the measures so that they affect those who already have the least, the agreements should make it easier for companies to recruit the missing labour from abroad, strengthen the integration of foreigners and ensure coherence between the increasing life expectancy and the withdrawal from the labour market, so that poverty can be reduced and more can support itself. • V 124).
ParlaMint-DK_20170531163708	Thank you to the rapporteur. This proposal is also part of the further debate. And I'll say that at this point, of course, it's good to get the Folketing to wake up a little bit, but you might want to be careful anyway, just a little bit. Then it's mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531163727	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech. But it was a paradoxical rapporteur's speech, because it was a rapporteur's speech, in which the rapporteur began by being so extremely delighted about the end of the housing tax and now moving forward. One almost got the impression that this was the turn of the century for the Radical Left, which had now happened ■ it was quite fantastic. And then the rapporteur's speech ended with everything stalled, and it was so awful that nothing happened, and now it was all finished. It was a paradoxical experience that in 10 minutes the rapporteur reached from one extreme to the other. But, sir... Morten Østergaard, of course, had given some thought when he prepared the speech, or perhaps he just got caught up in the mood. After all, we have been made clear in today's debate that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative actually have no claim after an election and will point to the President of the Social Democratic Party as Prime Minister's candidate. The Radical Left has had ads about others, which they think are doing well, from other parties, etc., and has bared a little with the idea of wanting to make tough political demands again in order to point to a Social Democratic President as Prime Minister. My question is: is it still keeping away, and if it does, what are some political demands that will be made?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531163844	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531163845	I actually think that, uh... Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who seemed as if he were listening well, understood that the reason why I stayed with the housing tax agreement was that it was an example of things that looked quite impossible when the votes were counted, because no one would touch it with a fang, now loosed in memory in a broad circle of parties. And I use it as a warning to rediscover the block policy of the '00s, which put us in a mess when the crisis hit us because we were unable to pursue an economic policy that was broadly anchored before we came to the crisis. And it's a call to the Prime Minister. It's not certain that Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl wants a broad collaboration, but I do, and I believe that serves Denmark best. Having said that, however, I would like to say that we are pointing to Mrs Mette Frederiksen because we want a new government in Denmark. We are in opposition for the reasons I have mentioned here in my speech. But that is what we are doing with the wish that a policy should be pursued which takes Denmark in a different direction, and that is why it is clear that it is not unconditional. On the points I have raised here, this is a question of what we call making Denmark larger, i.e. stronger, greener and marked by a greater view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164002	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164003	It is not without conditions, and then there will be some headlines. But can the rapporteur be a little more specific, for example? in relation to the territory of aliens? Sir. Morten Østergaard said, after a meeting held among the opposition parties which, if necessary, would be united in a change of government, that the Radical Left would also have a decisive influence on foreign policy. Now we know that tightening means that there are fewer people coming to Denmark, and relaxations mean that more people are coming to Denmark. That's why it's a little interesting for a party like the Danish People's Party at least to get Mr. Morten Østergaard to put into practice: what are some relaxations in the area of foreigners that will be crucial for the Radical Left to make a condition for a future government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164049	Here you go, sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164050	What I have said on that occasion, on a large number of other occasions and will also do on this occasion, is that if we participate in intergovernmental cooperation or, for that matter, just bring a government to power, we must have influence in all areas, including foreign policy. I have never at any time pretended to myself or anyone else that this means that we can dictate the policy of foreigners. We certainly did not when we sat in government last time but influence it we must have. There are plenty of points to the need for a new and better immigration policy in Denmark. Are we better prepared for the next refugee crisis in Denmark? I do not think so, and we are not in control of it. Sir. After all, Kristian Thulesen Dahl represents the most expensive integration policy of all, that is, the one where people are not allowed to support themselves. There are plenty of things you can do about the integration service, etc. However, it is a question of us having an influence on all areas, including foreign policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164152	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164155	Thank you. And thank you very much, sir. Morten Østergaard for just kicking some life in the hall. I think we needed that. That is very commendable. When I listen to Mr. Knox... Morten Østergaard's speech, I also get a bit of a double feeling. Because on the one hand Mr. Morten Østergaard says that the government has failed and that everything is bad, and on the other hand Mr. Morten Østergaard says that we must bring someone to the table who has arranged for the government to be stuck. I mean, excuse me, but what good would that do? If sir... Morten Østergaard wants to continue along a path of reform, Mr. Morten Østergaard saw that it is Mrs Mette Frederiksen who is quite right to have behind the wheel there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164243-2	Yes, it was at least the last time we cooperated with the Social Democratic Party that it was very much a reform trail. But what I am saying today is that we are ready to cooperate with everyone. What, after all, is the problem, and I also believe that Mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, when he lays his head on the pillow sometime late tonight, agrees with me that the government has got stuck. In other words, it is a little paradoxical that the greatest tool one had is being shelved, but the objectives are being maintained, and then it is being claimed that one is ambitious. Honestly, it's not. But the reality is that I believe that we will need to do more than what we are doing today, and that is why we need a different government, because you are put in checkmate. And you are not the Social Democrat, you are the party that has brought you to power, and that is the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164331	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164332	It's an exciting analysis. I don't share it. I actually think it's notoriously wrong. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen from the Radical Left said to the programme Slotsholmen, a welcome innovation in this House, and that is a quote, so that is why my mention of the minister is wrong, President: I prefer Kristian Jensen's political project to the political project of social democracy. Quote out. I can understand why I do not disagree with that. Now, of course, we have had some debates in this Chamber about whether the Finance Minister in this country has too much influence on the policy pursued. We have probably agreed that the Minister for Finance has a not inconsiderable influence on the policy pursued. Doesn't give it to Mr. Knox? Morten Østergaard has a reflection on: where is it really that the arrow should point to the Radical Left when one says that one prefers Left politics to social democratic politics? And yet you have this strange point on Mrs. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164433	I think it's so sad that sir... Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Ellemann-Jensen on his excellent speech on what politics is all about. I mean, what I am saying today, and what I am signalling here today, is a willingness to cooperate. It is a cooperation that characterised the government I was part of, where, for the first time in 15 years, I think, we made a financial settlement across the middle and where we made a series of agreements with the opposition then. But now we have a government that has become stuck because it is chessed off its own parliamentary basis. What I am saying is that when we get the opportunity again with the decisive mandates, we will of course be marking things in our direction. And if we see that this is what we see now in the constellation that you have going on, that it cannot go in our direction, we will of course pull the plug on it. That is the consequence that I completely miss with the government that we have now, and that is why we were so happy when the Minister of Finance came to express what the heart was full of, namely the desire for something else rather than allowing the negative stories to dominate so as to take up the future; instead of the black view of border controls and everything else in relation to the outside world so as to get started working with the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164544	There are many comments. Many people would like to do so, so we must keep to the speaking time that is one of the reasons. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164554	I would also like to ask a few questions about this flirtation with the Vice-President of the Left, Mr President. Kristian Jensen. After all, some money has been spent on putting in advertisements and such things, and what amazes me a little is that if you go down in substance about it and see what kind of policy Kristian Jensen stands for with his government, it is precisely the huge cuts in education and research that the Radicals have been batting against down here. This is a damaging, unambitious policy in the green area, which has already cost Denmark dearly compared to our leading position in the green area. It is also a foreign policy which is certainly not to the left of it that a social democratic government can allow. So I'm experiencing it a little bit, like flirting with someone else to make wife jealous-like maneuver. So, actually, it is quite frankly curious: is it the case that the Radicals see an opportunity to point to a prime minister from the right after the next elections?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164704	We point to one Prime Minister at a time, and then we take it in that order, but I would like to stick to the fact that I think that, and I say this with a smile on my lips, of course, not because I am sorry for the interest that it is a little astonishing that commending a political opponent, as the Minister of Finance said something right, namely that we should not let the negative stories dominate, that we should not have the approach to the world, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted, I think, represents that globalisation is something we must protect ourselves from rather than cooperate internationally to make the best of it. The Minister for Finance said on the same occasion that he could not see the meaning of intervening in regulating what clothes people wear and shower curtains and all these things, and that is an important dividing line. I believe that it is a dividing line that is much wider than the Radical Left and, to a large extent, a dividing line that is not at all marked by what is right-wing and left-wing in the Folketing. Now take foreign labor. Sir. After all, Pelle Dragsted's party has joined the Danish People's Party and the Social Democrats to make it harder to attract foreign labour. So there will be fewer resources for training, and that is why I say that I think it is time to break up with those who chose dividing lines, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164820	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164822	It became more such a counterattack than an answer to the question, and it is nonsense that we should be against globalisation. I really don't think anybody is. We are discussing what globalisation should look like, but I guess I don't have time to spread that around in 18 seconds. I think it is quite fair to consider pointing to another Prime Minister. After all, we have said very clearly on the part of the Enhedslisten that we are not pointing to a Prime Minister from the right. That is a clear trade description, and I really think that is fair enough, because I also think that things have been thrown up in the air and there are many difficult things in the parliamentary situation we are in. It was really only if you could get a perfectly clear answer as to whether it is the case that the Radicals are agreeing to negotiations on the formation of a government with an opportunity to take the Danish People's Party's Party's hand presumably and jump over and ensure that a right-wing prime minister is appointed or at least will not oppose the formation of a right-wing government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531164918	I think that when it comes to the political projects of which you are most related, Mr. Pelle Dragsted is far closer to the Danish People's Party than Radical Left is. This applies, of course, to European policy, to those aspects of foreign policy which are concerned with foreign labour, and that is certainly true of economic policy too. That is an expression of the fact that the dividing lines are not, as Mr. Pelle Dragsted would want it. They are much more open to the closed society, to those who want to shape the future or just hold onto the past, and there you have to do something about yourself where you want to be. What I am saying is that we are pointing to Mrs Mette Frederiksen because we want another government in Denmark, but what matters is what direction it wants and we cannot take our votes for granted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165005	Thank you. Then it's mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165006	Thank you. The Radical Left points to Mette Frederiksen, but if reform is required, should Mrs Mette Frederiksen become Prime Minister after the next elections? I ask because senior social democrats have said that continuing to make labour supply reforms is an expression of poor haters and rhetoric of that kind. We don't think so. We believe that it is necessary for a prosperous and prosperous society to adapt it constantly. It is also my impression that, in this way, it is also the Radical Left's approach to making reforms. These are not reforms for the sake of reform, but they are necessary if we are to remain a rich society. But Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not want reforms. Is it a requirement on the part of the Radical Left that there should be more reforms, including labour supply reforms, if the Radical Left is to point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165118-2	So what we stand for and what I have presented today is a desire to create the opportunity to invest in the future. Instead of making the educational savings achieved by the Liberal Alliance in the government, which is the only public area where, like the real police, you are doing your job, we would like to invest. This requires that we have something to invest in, and that is why we need economic reforms, and I agree with the palette that has been put in place, which can be done with withdrawal; it can be done with getting more people to support themselves, and it can be done with more foreign labour. But if we're going to discuss it that way, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, I might as well say that a demand from the Liberal Alliance to continue in the government is that the Danish People's Party will help make reforms. But should we not rather try to work out something to work together on that goes against, which actually becomes something, rather than performing a ritual tribal dance about what is to be done after an election that has not been held?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165220	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165221	There's a reason I'm asking. After all, I fully recognise that there are challenges in blue cooperation in terms of reform. I fully acknowledge that. I don't think it's a secret. However, before the next elections, it would be nice to know whether it is a call from the Radical Left to point out to Mrs Mette Frederiksen that reforms need to be carried out. I am asking, because before the 2011 elections, the Social Democrats did not want reforms either. As a Cadeau to the Radical Left, I would like to say that reforms were carried out and I believe that this has a lot to do with the Radical Left. But the electorate is entitled to know that they are voting on the Radical Left, that means more reforms and that Mette Frederiksen is going to put his heels in and say: yes, that is the way it will be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165320	It's called Mrs. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165323	Mrs. Mette Frederiksen? Yes, sir! Maybe it's easier for me to answer. Well, good word again! Now it was the chairman of the Danish People's Party who, I believe, earlier called the Liberal Alliance a parody referring to Circusrevyen, and then I would say that it is perhaps a mild understatement to call it a bad relationship within the blue block. What I'm saying to Mr. Simpson... Joachim B. Olsen, is that I think there is a need to force the government of which you are a part, not to lock itself up with its parliamentary basis, but to seek broad cooperation. Why? That is exactly what caused us to have a reform agenda that has lasting over time. Otherwise, we don't know how it ended. That is why it is actually the responsibility and task of the Liberal Alliance to ensure that we do not resolve ourselves inside, but that we get some broad agreements in this Parliament so that something more can happen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165414	Thank you. I would very much like to ask that speaking time be respected. We must remember that every time we exceed the speaking time, some colleagues are prevented from speaking, and every time I have to correct, some of the speaking time goes on. So it is best that we keep to the speaking time. Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165429	Thank you. I shall try to keep to the speaking time. Thank you for a good speech, and thank you for waking us all up. However, I did not have a word in the speech about the green transition, and I recognise that it is in the proposal for adoption in two words, but could the rapporteur not elaborate on what the specific ambitions are? Because I can be a little bit worried about the fact that the rapporteur asked the Alternative's rapporteur when he was on the platform, how willing the Radical Left really is to spend money seriously on the green transition. So can the rapporteur elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165508	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165509	Yes, and on the same occasion I can also elaborate on my reply to Mr Seligman's question. Joachim B. Olsen. That is exactly the point: if we are to pursue a policy where we want more, then we also need to be willing to take decisions that offer the opportunities, and that means that the economic policy, where we just want to stand by or not, as the message was last week, will lead to the status quo. I would like to invest in the green switch-over that is a fundamental part of both our policy and our economic plans. But that is why I reached out to the Alternative and asked: If we do not also agree that unless we also have to start financing this kind of thing with savings on education, the introduction of training ceilings and such things, then it also requires a willingness to ask them in Danish society who can, if they are willing to contribute, so that we can continue to take the lead in the green transition. We are not afraid to ask anyone to do so, and I hope that the alternative will be included.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165558	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165559	Thank you. I can confirm that, and that is what the alternative rapporteur did. After all, we have created a fully funded financial law, in which we are seriously setting aside money for the environment. But could the rapporteur try to be a little more specific about what the rapporteur is thinking about financing the green conversion, and what particular areas of action the rapporteur is thinking about in connection with the green conversion? And I'd like to thank you for the stretched hand. We'll repay you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165626	Yes, I hope the alternative does, but it is also important to say that if you join the team that says that it is good enough with the resources we have, knowing that it is only enough to maintain welfare as it is, which I think is what is represented in the proposal for adoption that we could not be in today, then it is therefore difficult to afford those investments. That is why we say that it is also part of our generational gift and our economic policy to invest in the green transition. But fortunately, one might say, there is one of the examples where we are in agreement as to where we want to go. All the opposition parties have just formulated a new climate policy. We stand for this one hundred percent, and there is even, I think, a realistic chance to finance it if the willingness of the opposition to raise the money is as great as to spend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165718	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165720	Well, I'm really glad we made a climate policy together. I think the centre-lefts really benefit from that, even if you're magenta-colored, red or green, or whatever you're in that mix. I am, in fact, a little curious to know where the Radical Left is moving at the moment. I note that the Radical Left has become a little hesitant about what you really want and that the background is the government's 2025 plan. That is why I would like to ask a few questions about how far the Radical Left is prepared to go to be part of a potential growth initiative by the government. If the government is making savings in the S.U. to finance tax cuts, can the Radical Left look at it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165807	Firstly, we have already had the opportunity to discuss the SU in the past. I think that's what the government did to cut out the project. We are not very enthusiastic about the model that had been put forward to finance loans, but we have no idea what the new proposal is. We can see that it's bigger than the old one, but what the contents are, we don't know about. So we'll have to discuss that when we get to that point. But I would like to say about the whole tax discussion that for us it is therefore absolutely crucial to take things in the right order, and the right order is therefore that we must pursue an economic policy that allows us to invest in those things that can shape Denmark's future. That is why it requires that we do not suck money out of the education system to spend it on something else, and that is the challenge. We want to help reduce the tax on labour, but it has to be because we can afford it when we have invested in all the other things that are important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165900	Here you go, Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165901	I am just trying again to get an answer to my questions, because I did not get an answer as to whether the Radical Left would be willing to look at a change in the SU to finance a tax agreement. I fully agree that the money must be found before tax cuts are made and so on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531165933	No. If we are going to discuss changes in the SU system, it must be in order to invest in education. It was also part of the previous government's proposal, at least in part. But going out to get money from those who have at least in advance, whether it is because of a ceiling on cash benefits or what it is, or from students to make tax cuts, is not a connection that we see for us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170003	Thank you. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170006	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard represents a party which one must say has an international outlook. It also emerged during the speech and that also means that one is in favour of binding cooperation at European level and also at the United Nations, and the question is whether it is via NATO. I've found an article from March, where Mr. Morten Østergaard tells Everything that under no circumstances will he raise the defence budget to this 2%. of GDP as a prelude to the defence settlement we have to make. This seems to me to be a little at odds with the NATO summit held in Wales in 2014, i.e. under the former SR government, which reaffirmed the commitment to get closer to this 2%. and have a binding objective for how to achieve them. So now I'm actually just gonna listen to Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard: Is it such a general resistance to reaching the 2%, or is it only a resistance to increasing the defence budget to the forthcoming defence settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170104	It's probably the other way around. Well, we are coming to the defence conciliation negotiations, and we are doing this to see if we can do anything more. We think there is much to suggest that the world needs deeper involvement. One of the tasks to which it has traditionally been a little difficult to get countries to contribute is, of course, to stabilise the places where the battle has been won, but peace is not yet, and that is why we have proposed a humanitarian intervention force. After all, one of the areas that requires strong armament is in the cyber area where we are subjected to attacks every day, and all those things do, of course, make it possible to see a sensible use of more resources in a defence settlement. But we are not doing this for Donald Trump, and I do not believe that, for example. Having more conscripts is something that keeps the President of Russia awake at night. I think he is more concerned with our energy policy than with how many conscripts we train.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170206	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170215	I don't really want you to do this for Donald Trump either. I have a wish that this should be done for Danish security and for the sake of Danish future freedom. That's kind of what's my priority. Sir. Morten Østergaard himself points to the need for stabilisation and the need for increased efforts in relation to cybercrime, and there I think there is broad agreement in the Folketing that we will have to invest. So I actually just want to hear sir. Morten Østergaard here in the end, whether he thus agrees that this substantial increase in defence needs to take place in order for us to be able to fulfil, among other things. the things he's pointing at here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170237	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170238	I would rather put it in that way that we have a number of ambitions about where Denmark can make a difference, even where we are not doing it as much today as we would like, among other things. When it comes to stabilisation and reconstruction. It is not because what we are doing is not good, but because we could do more. If it is on the table, we are also willing to invest more. What we think, and which I am critical of, is that if it is to be a statistical exercise in order to be able to attend the NATO summit and say that something specific has happened now, then I have to say that I will be surprised if it turns out that the government is planning to use 2%. of GDP from the next defence settlement. It will be very, very expensive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170317	Sir. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170319	Thank you, and thank you, sir. Morten Østergaard for the speech. The Rockwool Foundation did here about a year ago a study of what tightening means for the number of asylum seekers. This study shows that the conclusion is that tightening works. On average, a tightening reduces the number of asylum seekers by approx. 6%, just as a relaxation increases the number in the same order of magnitude. What I'd like to ask, sir. Morten Østergaard, on the other hand, is whether the policy of relaxation which I think the Radicals led when they sat in government here a few years ago until 2015 is a requirement that will continue to have if one is to support or be part of a social democratic government itself. Basically, sir. Morten Østergaard believed that it was 45 relaxations that had been forced through during the reign of which the Radicals were part. We can count together for ourselves what it would mean for our foreign policy if it were for the Radicals to maintain that demand vis-à-vis a future government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170434	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170435	It was an interesting study in many ways. I was there when the results were presented. It is true that, in this context, you count one every time you change a law, and there I might call for less effort to be made, because that means a nick every time, no matter what the content of the policy is. And that means you might have to take the connections with a little spruce of salt. But what was also clear was that the prerequisite for us to be able to deal with it in the way Mr. Peter Skaarup does, is that no other country does the same. Because it goes without saying that if everyone does a tightening, we're in the same direction. And that is the conclusion from our point of view. We want a completely different cash European asylum policy in which we deal with cases where people cross the border and, on the other hand, distribute the task of integrating those who are entitled to asylum between European countries. That is where I say that one can sit and count how many legislative changes there were and double citizenship count well in that context, and it still remains. I don't know if that's what's gonna make us have a lot of refugees. I think it might be more of a humanitarian disaster in Syria. That is why my point is that perhaps we should just discuss foreign policy like everything else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170552	Sir. Peter Skaarup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170553	I think it's true, sir. Morten Østergaard, that one can look at such studies in such a way that there are some prerequisites for such studies that are interesting to look at. Having said that, we must also acknowledge that during the period when the Radicals were part of the government, Denmark pursued a very lenient policy on foreigners, because a number of areas were being relaxed, while a number of other countries did not do the same. This meant, among other things, that many asylum seekers came to Denmark during the period that we would not otherwise have had. And that is the conclusion of the Rockwool Foundation study. That is why I am actually trying to get a little more to the bottom of what the Radicals are going to do, and I do not think I was given an answer to that: what are the radicals going to do? Will we continue to demand relief if we are to support a social democratic government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170648	Sir. Peter Skaarup says a lot of things. What I am saying is that we want a cash European asylum policy where we will be better able to deal with the next crisis than we have dealt with the one we have now. And that requires a completely different commitment to cooperation, but it would mean that we were beyond that, because the logic that is being put forward is that we need to tighten up to keep people away and only work if other countries do not do the same. And there is something that suggests that if it is each man separately, you just devalue the conditions until you find out how to work together at some point. But I would like to say that we think there is a lot to be done in foreign policy that could give hope that we have some better results and, indeed, we think it is petty that we do not take quota refugees, especially because there have been much fewer refugees, we can understand because of the policy that has been pursued.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170733	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170735	Thank you. Sir. Morten Østergaard started his rapporteur's speech here a little enthusiastic, you might say, almost in festival fashion, and I would like to stay a little excited about this. 'Cause I can understand that sir... Morten Østergaard is enthusiastic about the Minister for Finance and the policy pursued by the Minister for Finance. Will Mr. Morten Østergaard did not just say what he was thrilled about the Finance Minister's policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170804	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170806	Now I hope that the point was made, namely that the Leftman I praised today was Thorkil Livrem, who was Minister of Finance in the post-war period, and who received a lot of criticism of the then Prime Minister, because he wanted broad cooperation rather than bourgeois block policy. But on the other hand, and that is the thing about the belt • he was known for feeding, and that is a good principle. And that is what we have tried to pursue today. But it is true that we think that some of the views advocated by the Minister for Finance have sounded good in radical ears, and I would like to repeat there that I think it is very right to say that if you allow the negative stories to dominate the question line here from the Danish People's Party, it will harm Denmark both in the present and in the future; that if we believe that all progress is something we have to regulate in the Danish Parliament, also when it comes to how people dress or who they go to the swimming pool etc., then it will not take us any further; and that if you think that closing us and isolating us from the outside world is what makes us winners of globalisation, then you are wrong. And we agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170916	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170917	Thank you. I think that may have been a rather disappointing answer when we were together in this enthusiasm. We can, of course, welcome the fact that Mr. Morten Østergaard supports the Finance Minister's policy, but when he does so and apparently does not support Mrs Mette Frederiksen's policy, it has to be because there is something there, like Mr Frederiksen. Morten Østergaard doesn't like it. Now we have a little bit of what is enthusiastic about the policy of the Minister for Finance, but what is it that is disliked about the policies of Social Democracy and Mette Frederiksen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170952	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531170952-2	Well, we do have a disagreement which is clear today as far as economic policy is concerned. We have ambitions for more. We do not believe that we can settle for the room for manoeuvre that has been created, and that is what makes us choose today to present our own proposal for adoption. Because we think it is fair enough to say and be honest about the fact that when you have ambitions for more, will more in the field of education, will invest more in children's first 1,000 days and will more in the field of research and development, i.e. where the government has failed and has had to cut back, and this also applies to the green transition that Mrs Josephine Fock asked about yes, then it also requires that you are willing to eat for nourishment. That's why I used the picture with Thorkil Livrem. And it is, of course, a disagreement that we find that we have, at least at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171044	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171045	Thank you for that, President. Now we've been able to see that mr. Morten Østergaard I use an expression that you've heard before seems very steeld. It's an expression that's been used before. Sir. Morten Østergaard said that Radicals should have influence on all areas if they were to support Mrs Mette Frederiksen in a government. Sir. Morten Østergaard also said that radicals were prepared to pull the plug if not Radicals had influence and Mrs Mette Frederiksen bypassed Radicals to make appointments elsewhere. And I understand that there are demands. Among other things: Radicals want the retirement age to be raised and asylum restrictions to be relaxed. If Mrs Mette Frederiksen does not want to take part in the two, does that mean that Radicals will pull the plug and say goodbye and thank Mrs Mette Frederiksen: it is not you that we should have as Prime Minister anymore? That's how we have to understand it, because that's what you can understand, sir. Morten Østergaard says?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171149	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171150	I am actually a little puzzled by the range of questions from the Danish People's Party, because I think in many ways that what I say is a bit like the message that the Danish People's Party regularly gives to the government, namely that you have to remember who has brought one to power and that you have to pursue politics in that direction. And there is just what I am saying is that we come up with positions first, and what we can see is that our ambitions are considerably greater than what we can achieve with the room for manoeuvre that has been created. It is only enough to maintain welfare as we know it. If you want more for the worn out, that is to say those that we really think should be allowed to retire earlier; if you want more for the children who have had a difficult start in life; and if you want to invest in the next generation so that they can create new jobs where the old ones obviously disappear, then you have to have something to do with it. That is our demand: an economic policy that allows it. But I can ask Mr. Bent Bøgsted: Which areas of government policy does the Danish People's Party not care about? Are there any areas where the Danish People's Party accepts that here the government can just do what it wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171255	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171257	Now I don't have the opportunity to answer, because that's Mr. Knox. Morten Østergaard, who has to answer questions. But Mr. Morten Østergaard did not answer the question asked at all. In connection with the current government, the Danish People's Party did not participate in the creation of the government basis. Mr. Morten Østergaard said that Radicals will be involved: they must have influence on all areas, and if you do not want to do so, they will pull the radical plug. But that doesn't make any sense, sir. Morten Østergaard to answer. Does this mean that Mrs Mette Frederiksen can easily get round the deal if Mr. Morten Østergaard's party does not help to create the entire government base when you are only a support party and then you do not want to overthrow a S-government? Is that how it's supposed to be understood? Morten Østergaard said he's ready to pull the plug? Because otherwise it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171350-2	What you have to understand, perhaps especially in the Danish People's Party, is that we will not embark on the project that you have done here, where you have installed a government, whose policy you fundamentally disagree with, and spend all your time preventing the government from pursuing its own policy. We do not think that is responsible. What should be done when a government is formed is to understand what direction it should take. And if you can't back that direction, you shouldn't back the government, let alone step into it. It's the failure that's so massive from sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl and the side of his troops, namely that he does not care what kind of government it is that sits, because if he is not satisfied, he can just prevent it from pursuing his policy. And that's a problem in the Parliament we have now. I think it is deeply irresponsible. I think you have an obligation to stand by the governments you bring to power.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171438	Thank you. Then it's mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171442	I would also like to drill a little bit in this flirtation, as the Radicals and Mr. Morten Østergaard has been running with the finance minister. I want to, because I want to know if it still applies. Now, sir. Kristian Jensen, in his capacity as Minister of Finance, presented the government's pension plan... More years on the labour market... Apart from the fact that I do not believe that it fully satisfies the radicals' desire for a further increase in the retirement age, at least firmly, it also means, almost with unerring certainty, that the integration benefit is reduced by 2% and that the so-called Danish supplement is converted, or what to say, into a lump sum of DKr 6 000, which is equivalent to six months' Danish supplement. These proposals are clearly designed to get the Danish People's Party on board, and I suppose that does not meet the ambition of the broad cooperation, which I understand is the reason for flirting with the Minister of Finance. So I would like to know whether the Minister for Finance is still the subject of a radical suit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171559	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171601	I really have to say that I think we are very close to an incredibly accurate representation of what our position is. Yes, that is exactly what is our message today, namely that it is a bad idea to fall into what we know from the 00's to mess around in alien law to find something you can do to please the Danish People's Party, whether we now understand that it is people with chronic diseases or disabled people on early retirement or integration benefits or something else. That's exactly what we're saying. It is therefore an obligation, even if you are in opposition, to try to get in and influence it, and that is what we are doing with the signals we are sending out today. That's why the answer to Mr. Henning Hyllested also said that we really think that there is too little flirtation in the Folketing. We think it's about breaking up those things. We have seen that Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten can get together on some things, for example. to make it harder to get foreign labour. We would then just prefer that what you find together is something that brings Denmark forward, and that it is not just a policy or a policy of stopping or closing the world out of politics, but that it is actually something that can help to provide the basis for us to invest in the things we want to do, together with green conversion, education, research, knowledge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171717	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171718	Now it is not Enhedslisten who has made a whole series of agreements with the Danish People's Party. When Mr. Morten Østergaard himself sat in government, was a great deal of the agreements when one went reformamok, made with the Danish People's Party. So that's not a fair accusation. And one might ask why the Radical Left has so much to do with raising the retirement age, when one is actually contradicted by a whole range of economists covering the whole political spectrum, from the CEPOS to the Workers' Council, to the wise men, who all point out that the hammock problem is in fact virtually non-existent. Why is it so hard that people have to work harder when it is not necessary to maintain welfare?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171807	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171809	Let me answer the last one, because it's only 30 seconds. I'll tell you. It is because we do not think Denmark is good enough as it looks. We think there are far too many children who get a hard start to life. We think it's gonna take more educators. We know it's expensive, but we're willing to give priority. Nor do we think it is good enough that people who are worn out, but who have five years left before retirement, should be forced to be on the labour market when they have lost their ability to work. But all these things, from the young children to the worn-out elderly, we can't do anything about it as long as we can only afford to maintain the welfare as we know it. And that is why we are willing to say to those who can: If you stay a little longer in the labour market, we do a little better for those who are having more trouble than you and those who are coming after you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171853	Thank you. And then there's the last question. I would ask that the speaking time be respected so that we can achieve everything. Here you go, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171900	Thank you. It forced me personally to a great deal of respect, since the Radical Left, with Mr. Morten Østergaard led after the 2011 elections made a number of written demands on the Queen's Queens, which began with Helle Thorning-Schmidt. I think this is commendable, and I think it also shows that there is a great political backbone. Therefore, allow me to ask whether Mr. Morten Østergaard, on behalf of the Radical Left, can tell us whether it is something we intend to do again when we have at some point passed a parliamentary election.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171931	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171936	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531171938	The very clear answer gives cause for me to ask whether that would be a cause for concern for Mr Seligman. Morten Østergaard, that we see today that the opposition is divided into two. Sir. Morten Østergaard, with the Radical Left alone, has a proposal for adoption, while four other parties have made another proposal for adoption. Does this mean that, with the Christmas lights in the eyes, the situation is similar to the one before the 2011 elections, where we really have the opportunity to influence the situation, or is there cause for concern, when the political distance is growing in the opposition?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531172009	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531172011	Well, I know that there has been such a tradition that opening and closing debates should be about what happens after the next elections, but what we are going to do and why we are standing where we are now is a deep concern about the situation we are in now, in the Parliament we are in now, and what kind of plans the Left has to reinstate block policy instead of seeking broad cooperation. I just have to say, to be perfectly honest, that we could probably have signed up to the lowest common denominator and found out, and when I look at the proposal for adoption that has come from the governing parties and the Danish People's Party, it is probably about the same thing that has been found out. In any case, it has been agreed that it will be agreed that things are going very well in Denmark. Oh, my God, you haven't said too much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531172052	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is no room for further comments. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531172104	I'm a fundamentally optimistic person. When the day is over, I usually enjoy everything that has happened, but there are now also days when I come to believe that the best thing about the day is that it didn't go any worse than it did now. That's how I feel about the parliamentary year that's been going on. We saw no progress for the poorest in our society, for young people in education or for our climate, so the best I can say is that it has not gone any worse in those areas. It was intended that the government would increase the retirement age and cut drastically in the SU. Fortunately, neither the Liberal Alliance nor the Conservative People's Party are outside or part of a government. There are still 90 seats to be found in the Danish Parliament for government policy. A massive majority of the population and a broad majority of the Folketing did not want to change the retirement age. The government therefore had to pack up one of its major reforms, and thank you for that. It also succeeded in stopping the Left Government's struggle against the coastal mills. The government fought against it, although it was a clear agreement that they had to be built and even if the business companies had invested a lot of money in bidding. Let us hope that the tradition of curling the sides together one by one from the most liberal government in Danish history continues. Let most of it become empty words on a piece of paper and never become a reality, and I hope that an equally massive majority in the Folketing will reject the government's plans for major tax rebates at the top and massive SU deteriorations for the negotiations in the autumn. I could actually get that thought: what should a liberal government do at all? At the same time, we in the SF will continue to fight to abolish some of the most crazy proposals the government has made. It acts among other things. It is a question of the training ceiling, which means that young people can only take more than one training in selected cases. For a modest and highly questionable saving, many young people have been prevented from taking the training they are passionate about, if they have chosen incorrectly in the first chop, or if they had an idea that they could combine two different courses. Honestly, should it really be for the benefit of the economy that you cannot take the right education? And should that really be particularly liberal? The pure Left Government also succeeded in significantly increasing poverty by introducing the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the integration benefit. The result is with the government's own figures in the vicinity of 700 jobs, while massively more children grow up in poverty. Children and young people who get a much worse start in life and probably have far fewer opportunities in the future • is it liberal? The human price for those affected is extremely high and, at the same time, the socio-economic price is also high, because fewer of them get an education and a job later in their adult lives. It is therefore in stark contrast to the reductions in inheritance tax which the bourgeois majority will give to rich company heirs and which, moreover, do not create jobs. If you are to believe the answer given by the tax minister to the Danish Parliament, there are no important jobs. The proposals have in common that they want to increase inequality quite unfairly and that they do not create very many jobs • two quite obvious areas where a new political majority in Denmark has an important clean-up task for itself. The first bourgeois Finance Act after the elections was also marked by systematic cuts in both development aid and the whole green area. The Left Government has called it green realism, but in reality it is a coal-black lack of realism, because the jobs of the future lie very much with those companies that think green. Here it is absolutely crucial that Denmark is ahead, so we will have a good share of the green jobs of the future. That is why I also welcome the fact that we five opposition parties have joined forces for a common climate initiative that will mean that Denmark will once again take the lead in climate policy and green job creation. I understand that the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate saw the light when he read our chronicle and he practically joined it all. I'm very pleased if we get turned a sinner. Then all we need is the Minister of Finance and the rest of the government. Over the coming weeks, the government is negotiating with the regions and municipalities about the large parts of the future's welfare that they are managing. Imagine if man came to the center of hope. For our common health system is pressured to the limit. It wasn't a joke that the nurses picked up their running shoes for the finance minister. I know he has his own, so he probably doesn't need to borrow, but they did just that to point out that there has to be a fast run between patients, computers and medical cabinets. There is not enough time for the individual patient, even if the employees do their utmost. There are simply too few hands, and here is the requirement to streamline 2%. Not anymore, either. Because although we can do a lot with modern technology, and although I recognise that we can do away with a lot of bureaucracy and control, they mean 2 per cent. really less hands. That is where we have come to, and it is sad because we need to strengthen health care and not weaken it. And our kids? Yes, they experience a hectic everyday life with too few adults. A few months ago, I was internship on Amager, on the wish island. It was hard work. I was in the nursery until lunch, and I was in kindergarten after lunch. Here there were good and committed adults, but come on, where it takes a lot to ensure the attention of every child. Here it is no good that a teacher stands alone with 12 children, where Lise needs to be changed, Peter needs to be helped to eat, Ali needs to be comforted, and Augusta wants to read a book. That is not possible, and we can do much better. What if we prioritised our children as much as the government has prioritised the inheritance tax to companies? Then there would be far more adults for our children, and everyday life would be safer for them, but also for us who deliver our children in the morning: We can safely go further in the certainty that they are well and are noticed. There are also elderly people who experience that there is no time for talk, a walk and barely the most basic hygiene. It is simply not worthy. To quote another politician in here, we are born as originals and should not die as copies. There must continue to be room for quality of life and not just to survive. It does not look dignified as it is today. This is due to the concrete savings in the local economy, and the government continues to demand savings of 0.5 billion. kr. It can be felt in the care of the elderly and in our day care facilities. This means deteriorating welfare, which is not necessary, according to the government's own 2025 plan, where there is money for much more welfare. In November, we will have local and regional elections, and it has to be said here that it will be important for us to choose local politicians who will work for better welfare and take care of our environment and climate. However, it will also be important for them to have a proper financial framework to work under, just as it is important to have a fight with the detailed management of the public sector, which creates a lot of frustration and stress without benefiting the citizen. On the international stage, and now we jump a little from the municipalities and go out into the world, the refugee crisis and the conflict in Syria continue, and the international community does not really have a good bid to solve either. On the part of the SF, we believe that the way forward is a real and active effort in the neighbourhood, including the reception camps in North Africa, combined with much more support from Europe, so that we can agree on a system in which all countries, by size and wealth, undertake to take quota refugees. The Danish Government has completely stopped receiving quota refugees and has also cut development aid. It may be difficult to believe in common solutions, but right here it is so simple that there are no other solutions. That is why it was a disaster when Britain voted a little year ago to leave the European Union. Some, including in here, were pleased that the European Union was on its way to dissolution, but I would just like to say to them that it is both storyless and naive. The European Union is far from perfect. That is why it is also essential for the European Union to be reformed in the direction of more emphasis on social dumping, a more social and solidarity economic policy, an effort to combat tax evasion and joint work for a green transition that benefits both the environment and creates jobs, not least at a time when Trump is clearly planning to withdraw the United States from the climate agreement. We can be ambitious and international, while creating jobs right here in Denmark. This shows the green transition, and even if the government wears the green feathers over and over again, we know that that is far from enough. It takes hope, it takes courage, it requires ambition, we in Denmark are willing to take the lead and set the standard, and in those cases where we then have the rest of the world with us, it creates new business opportunities in Denmark. We have seen this with renewable energy, and our massive investment in wind after the oil crisis in the 1970s created both security of supply and lots of jobs. Just talk to the West Jutlanders about it. So can we with biethanol of the second generation. Talk to them in Holstebro about the Maabjerg Energy Center, because the EU demands it in petrol. Or think if we jumped into a real clean-up of the old Cheminova site, polite 42, with the latest technology, where we also clean it of mercury. Imagine what business opportunities there are in it. Although one can be pleased that it has not gone worse in the year, it is really sad that we have not moved on with the development of a safe green welfare society here in Denmark in the year of parliament that is almost over. We could so much more, and unfortunately we didn't. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173152	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173156	Many thanks to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for someone who is usually committed to speaking and for starting off as an optimist, although I could well miss a little more in that direction. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr talks a lot about inequality and about the importance of reducing inequality. Well, you might think that's a little funny, all the time the inequality increased when the SF was in government. But now, I just need to hear: is it more important to reduce inequality than people have a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173233	But it is not a either-or-so we can both create jobs and reduce inequality. I know that the more people who get to work, in fact, you could say that it means something to the Gini Coefficient, but the SF has said very clearly that the Gini Coefficient is not the only way we measure equality in Denmark; we simply measure it also on how people have opportunities for example. to advance further in life later on. And I just have to say that neither the ceiling on cash benefits nor the 225-hour rule nor the integration benefit have made it easier for these families to secure a future and to secure a future for their children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173309	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173310	Thank you. I am pleased that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr herself is bringing the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration benefit, because that is, of course, what I wanted to follow up on. Because the truth is that after we introduced the ceiling on cash benefits, there are almost 7 000 people who are no longer on cash benefits, and I think that is a good thing. I think that is a wonderful thing for the people concerned, and I also emphasised this in my rapporteur's speech. So now that these tools seem to work and get people into work, why did this focus on inequality, whether it's the Gini Coefficient or not? Why not this focus on actually helping people to the greatest thing you can get in life, namely a place in the working community?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173354	So, in SF, we acknowledge that there are people on cash benefits that the incentive can work on, that is to say, in terms of getting them to work. We acknowledge that, but it is a very small group of the many people who are on cash benefits that reducing cash benefits helps in work. For many of them, it actually means they just get poorer. If the rapporteur meets these families where one parent is ill, he will see that it is not possible to get to work, that is to say to go from cash to work, because that is not possible when you are ill. And that is unfortunately the case for a great many of the people who are on cash benefits today that they are ill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173439	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173440	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the SF for its generally very good cooperation, especially in the areas which are very close to my heart: climate policy, environmental policy and agricultural policy, where we have often stood together against the government. And there is, it has to be said, also a very great need, so thank you for that. There is, however, one area that concerns me deeply, and that is that SF was one of the parties involved in the North Sea Agreement. It is an agreement which, among other things, is: has been criticised by one of the Danish members of the United Nations Climate Panel, who says that the North Sea Agreement is clearly contrary to a policy of limiting global temperature increases. And that's right, because we know that 80%. of the known fossil fuel stocks must remain in the ground and never be picked up if we are to hope to achieve the 2-degree target. And that will, of course, require all countries that have fossil fuels to leave some of them. So my question to SF must be: Does SF believe that a rich country like Denmark must also take responsibility for the 2-degree target and leave much of our fossil fuels underground?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173605	Yeah, I mean that. I believe that Denmark must take responsibility, and I also believe that Denmark must live up to the fact that the temperature of the planet does not rise by more than 2 degrees, preferably only 11⁄2 degrees, because that is what international scientists say, in fact, is what is sustainable for the earth. This is going to be a huge challenge, not least from the Paris Agreement, where many countries submitted far greater targets. So, yes, Denmark must take responsibility. When it comes to the North Sea Agreement, we are talking about an existing borehole, where the platform is sinking into the sea. Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding knows that too and where the platform has been renovated. This means that we can then continue to pull up some oil from the underground, and it could be said that since Denmark has almost only oil from the Tyra field, we could have left off and therefore not have produced oil and not least gas in Denmark. There I have to say that the way we produce oil and gas in Denmark by taking it up from the Tyra field compared to, for example. the way in which it is done in Russia, which would be the country we would most likely import gas from the country is much more climate-friendly. That is also clear from calculations. And so I have to say that in the tradeoff that must be, the Tyra field makes more sense. At the same time, it means tax revenue that we can use for other purposes. In addition to the North Sea Agreement, we have another agreement, of which Enhedslisten is also a part, which guarantees tax funding for our joint Train Fund DK. And there I would like to ask a question: does this mean that the position of Enhedslisten is that we should not create that funding for our future train fund?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173732	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173734	I think there are a lot of countries, especially those that are poorer than Denmark, who can find a lot of good arguments for why they need tax revenue and why they have to empty their fossil fuel stocks. And that is precisely why as a country, as a nation, as Denmark, as one of the richest countries in the world, we have a very special responsibility to make some of the difficult decisions with which we know that the road to a world that does not destroy the globe is paved. So I would like to ask again quite in principle: if SF believes that Denmark should also take responsibility and leave some of the fossil fuels in the underground, then the North Sea Agreement was a mistake, or where is it that we should stop in terms of sending the clear signal to the rest of the world that we are also ready to make the difficult choices?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173820	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173823	I firmly believe that Denmark should take responsibility. I also think that we are taking responsibility over and over again, especially when it is we in the centre-left who are lifting the green transition in Denmark. We have done so in many ways. We are one of the most ambitious countries compared to the reduction of CO2 We had achieved the target more than abundantly with the 40%. in 2020, if we had retained power in Denmark. As far as the Tyra field is concerned, I think that what we should talk about honestly is that the field we are still pulling oil and gas from the underground is a field that has so far existed. I don't imagine that we should grant permissions for further fields... that SF won't be part of the field... but in the fields that are, we need to get it up. We are doing this in a more climate-friendly way than we want to see in other countries, and at the same time it generates over 26 billion. kr. in tax revenue, which we hope we can jointly spend on the green transition. At least I think the Enhedslisten would like to be a part of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173919	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531173922	Thank you. We hear from the SF that you want to do a lot of good. In addition to the things we have just heard here today, the SF has proposed small 1.2 billion in this House. kr. To abolish the ceiling on cash benefits and the integration allowance, 5.6 billion. kr. for the elderly, 800 million. kr. to increase development aid, money for senior early retirement pensions and 250 million. kr. for extra dental care just to mention some of it. But I do not think we have heard so much about how the SF will finance these initiatives, so I would like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174004	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174005	We can start by rolling back the gift of the government, together with the Liberal Alliance, which was not in government at the time, and the Conservative People's Party. In this way, we are generating a great deal of money, because this means, among other things, that we should not lighten the registration tax and that the richest heirs do not have to put an extra sledgehammer in the bag, as well as what was also let the homeowners loose a little cheaper. There we can already find some of the funds, but I am, in fact, willing to do more, and the SF has also put that forward. Every time we have made a proposal, there has been funding with which Mrs May-Britt Kattrup will certainly have taken note by having followed our proposal as slavishly as she has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174043	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174045	I think it is thought-provoking that it is always called a gift book when people are allowed to keep some more of their own money, but that is one thing. Another thing is that in order to get this money, we have to have some growth in this society, and all the initiatives that Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has just said that the bourgeois government has stood for are all things that create growth. If we do not get growth that we have not had enough of in the last 10 years, then there is no prosperity either, and how will Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr be able to afford these initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174118	Now the growth that Denmark is experiencing at the moment has just been created at a time when the SF was in government, and that is precisely the room for manoeuvre that the Liberal Alliance is so insanely excited about using at the moment. So you can discuss who creates the money and who behaves like those who lurk at other people's hard work. It is fair enough that the Liberal Alliance has that approach to it, but I think that what is interesting is also who we want to help create this growth. I want to create growth in Denmark, because I want to help create jobs. But is it time and again to be the recipients of cash aid, that is, some of those who have the least in our society, or could it be imagined that some of them have suffered more, so have some wider shoulders that need to contribute more?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174201	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174203	Thank you. I would really like to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr, who has, after all, been a little after the alternative in that we are going to be involved in negotiations, if I cannot get an explanation of when it will then be said that there will be a stop to negotiations. Now Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr tried to explain the North Sea Agreement. I would like to ask about the abolition of the PSO, which meant that we had funding for the conversion to renewable energy, where the polluter pays etc. Could I not have an explanation of how to agree to that agreement and when it is that you reach the border?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174237	SF is e.g. not included in the housing agreement, because we do not think it would be a good deal to participate in. It was not fair enough, but we were part of the PSO agreement because we think that renewable energy is important in Denmark. We were preoccupied with the fact that the coastal mills could become a reality. Now I took part in the negotiations and know what armstrings it took, and I would have liked to have loved if the alternative had helped us with it. The more we are, the stronger we are. Unfortunately, however, I am constantly seeing that neither the alternative nor the Enhedslist are in the green area, and I am really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174314	Here you go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174317	When, among other things, we get to know each other. Speaking of the PSO agreement, may I explain to Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr that it is not always the alternative that has been invited. In the Paris agreement, which I know we both stand up for, there is what is referred to as no backsliding.I think it is called no backward steps and the PSO agreement is going to mean an increase in CO2 Is that good enough? Is it good enough to sit for a debate if the result is that we get an increased CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174349	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174350	I fully agree that we must meet the criteria laid down in the Paris Agreement that we must not resign from the commitments we have entered into. Before the PRS agreement, the government was well in the process of taking the wrong path, but it should not apologise for the conclusion of the PSO agreement. The SF had not wanted to abolish the PSP, and the government's claim that the EU had asked Denmark to do so was, in fact, erroneous. However, the reason why we chose to be in anyway when we put it on the Finance Act was the same as when we made the security of supply tax, where Enhedslisten was also involved. Well, that's kind of because it's got a better social profile. It is, in fact, better justice in Denmark. On the other hand, we must catch up with the climate challenges we face. That's one of the things we're negotiating right now in the Ministry. And as I said, all I'd love is for you to take part in it, too. I'm sure your imagination in the green field would help.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174443	Sir. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. We don't use direct charges. Pia Olsen Dyhr did I? ) Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174447	I'd like to pick up on the previous discussion. What Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr and the SF have referred to when they have put forward their proposals on these many things, which in themselves are excellent initiatives, has often been the room for manoeuvre, in other words that it can be dealt with within the scope. There is room for manoeuvre only because of some of the decisions we took when we sat in government together, and for a substantial part, some of the decisions that were taken before, and which certainly had in common, that the SF was not so enthusiastic about them sooner or later. My point is simply: is it not true that, for example, if we do not do so? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we had made a reform of the early retirement system, could we not have made those proposals with reference to today's room for manoeuvre?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174541	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174543	Now the SF's proposal does not just refer to the room for manoeuvre, as Mr. Morten Østergaard would also know if Mr. Morten Østergaard had read the suggestions. There are, among other things: a reference to the fact that we propose that you make a welfare contribution, that is to say that all Danes should contribute a little more in tax, and it is about everything from 50 DKK. up to 170 kroner. more a month, precisely to help finance some of our common welfare. This is among other things. in the field of children, we imagine it. Then we have also proposed what I still cannot understand the Radical Left at all, namely the proposal for a tax on financial transactions. Even Mrs Merkel thinks that this is a good idea because we are putting a lid on speculation, while at the same time getting funding into the box. The need to control speculation may certainly be necessary again, since the Danish economy is too up. At the same time, it will mean that if you make a 0.1% tax, you get 7 billion. kr. Into the treasury, and that's money that you can use for a lot of good things. I understand that the Radical Left is not interested in this, and I find it extremely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174652	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174654	There are, of course, a number of things on which we disagree, and we will have enough opportunity to discuss them. The question I asked was: is it not true that among other things? The reform of early retirement is one of the reasons why there is room for manoeuvre now, but can I also add this, so can one have the opportunity to answer the first question, too, that the room for manoeuvre in relation to the demographic development we are looking at is only enough to provide the well-being we have today? If you want more in the day institutions, more educators, which we agree on, and better dental care for young people and other positive things, then you have to get new income or reduce welfare elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174734	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174735	It is not only the pre-retirement reform that has ensured that we have the room for manoeuvre that we have today. It is, of course, an element of it, but I think that we could have found the money in many other and much wiser ways than making the early retirement reform. We could've traded. In fact, more money comes from the tax on financial transactions than from the pre-retirement reform, which hit a lot of people in Denmark who were worn out. That's one thing. The other thing is this: how much money is actually in the room. As the government put forward in their 2025 plan yesterday, it is possible to increase Danish public expenditure to almost 1%. I do not imagine that we do, but there is, and that is why it is more than the demographic challenge, which corresponds to 0.6%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174816	Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174819	Thank you. After all, the Government's Minister for Children and Social Affairs has presented a daily offer reform of 580 million. kr. A short time later, Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr asked a question with Mr. Jacob Mark about setting standards in kindergartens. It was an exciting debate. SF expressed the need for minimum standards. What I would like to hear from the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur can tell me what the standards were when the SF went into government in 2011 and what the norms were when the SF went out of government again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174911	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174913	I do not know the actual figures. I am sure the rapporteur will tell me in a moment. I know that the standards got worse while we were in government, among other things. because of the priority given to the children's allowance sent out by the municipalities. 750 million were sent. kr. to the municipalities, and at the same time the number of children decreased. This created some challenges in the municipalities. But I listen eagerly to what the rapporteur tells me of figures.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174934	Here you go, sir. Orla Østerby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531174936	It is also not too much to ask, since the SF has now brought up much of the issue of standards in the last few days and has asked questions about it. But it's hard to remember the numbers. But I can inform you that in 2011, when the SF went into government, it was 6.66. And the number in 2014 was 6.44. It's almost the same thing. My question is simply: what will the SF do in the future if they have to re-enter a government or support a government; would it require minimum standards in the area of children?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175015	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175016	Yeah, actually, we do. I'm glad the numbers look like they do. That actually shows that there have been more educators out in the children's landscape with those figures, Mr. Orla Østerby mentions. I also think it should be borne in mind that the challenge has been that there are no figures in the field of standards. If you ask the National Association of Municipalities, they have a number and another number is mentioned if you ask the teachers. The real challenge has been to get one number. I know that the Minister is holding this right now and that it should be published very soon. That is why I am somewhat confused by the fact that a Conservative Minister for the Child says that the Minister has no figures, while the rapporteur says that there are figures in the field of children. However, there should be no doubt that we want minimum standards in the area of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175059	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175102	Thank you. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr for a very committed speech. And then I'm gonna ask you about the phenomenon, sir. Jacob Mark. That is to be commended. But I sense a little that he has arrived as little as Narnia, the morning wanderer's journey and has jumped out of the wardrobe. It's just fairy tales. I think somebody should've told Mr. Knox. Jacob Mark, that when he does this to the government for progress reform and dimensioning in the field of education and SU-compatibility and such things, it is actually something that took place in the last period. So I just have to ask: is this such a specific strategy, that is, such a division of roles between the chairman of the SF and then the new phenomenon, Mr. Jacob Mark, namely, that he complains about everything that was done in the last period and that was not done and so can Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr officially stand at the mark of the past?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175201	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175203	Sir. Jacob Mark and I mean exactly the same thing, so there's really not a wedge between us. What we are concerned with is of course also to learn from the experiences that are being learned. I have also noted that, among other things, the Left. In the election campaign, you said you'd look at the progress reform. I was on a radio programme with the Prime Minister, where the Prime Minister promised two medical students that it would make it easier for medical students at the same time also to be able to take the so-called FADLs. So SF is not the only party that learns from the mistakes that happen along the way. It is, of course, very healthy for us politicians. I'd like to ask Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt: Isn't that it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175239	Sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175240	Yes, and that is precisely why I love Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr so much. I think Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr will also be pleased to know that the reform we are currently debating, among other things. with SF as regards the taximeter area, e.g. will reduce the impact of progress reform on students' everyday lives if we reach the goal. We can only welcome this together. And then a purely factual piece of information: 8 months ago I voted the SF with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr in the lead as Danish champions in quick reading, reading 314 words per second because we were able to criticise our proposal one minute after it had arrived. I would just like to commend SF for being able to repeat the success of the launch of our 2025 plan no. 2.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175318	Now we were fortunate enough that the 2025 plan was sent to the parliamentary rapporteurs in advance, which is why we had time to read it. It's just like that for general enlightenment. After all, it is not the case that the rapporteurs of the Danish Parliament will not get it in their hands until it is published. In addition, I am glad that the Left and the SF are both interested in doing something for the students exactly here in terms of the progress reform. There should be no doubt that the SF is about getting the best students out in the end, because that is what we live on in Denmark. We live off the raw material we have in our head, and not from what we pull out of the underground.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175355	Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175357	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. I would like to continue a little further on the questions put by our rapporteur, Rasmus Nordqvist, who asked about the participation of the SF in the negotiations on the PSP and that they helped to conclude them. As I understood the rapporteur, it acted among other things. That it helped to create social equality. What I have understood in connection with the agreement is also that the base tax was raised and that the green cheque was reduced and that the PSO was, of course, a tax relief for companies. So I still find it very difficult to see why SF thinks it was a good deal to join the Climate Council precisely because the Climate Council has also said that it raises our CO 2 5-7 per cent. So can the rapporteur not elaborate on the importance of social equality in this respect?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175455	Well calculations show very clearly that when you remove something from being a tax and transfer it to the Finance Act in general, so everyone contributes, it is thus more equal. Then we can discuss the climate effects of that... I think that's fair enough. I also think that is why Enhedslisten was involved in removing the security of supply tax and putting it into the Finance Act by increasing the base deduction. Moreover, the green check is not correct. In fact, it was one of the things that we negotiated out along the way in the PESO negotiations. I have to say that if the world were perfect, I wouldn't have done away with the PSP either. Then I would have kept it and kept it in line with future energy reconciliations. But now the world isn't perfect. There was a majority in the Folketing that wanted to abolish the PSO. What I saw was preoccupied with in the process of being very preoccupied with and with which SF has always been concerned was precisely to maintain the expansion of renewable energy in Denmark, that we should have the coastal mills, that it would continue to be possible to convert electricity to heat in Denmark, that we would have the opportunity to set aside money for a climate pool. And it was actually the merit of the SF, together with the Radical Left, that I would like to give part of the credit that we had a climate pool, and that is what we are sitting and negotiating right now, preferably to compensate for the increased CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175612	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175614	Thank you. I still feel like when it emits so much, I find it very difficult to see the SF in that deal, I have to say. Of course, I fully acknowledge the SF's reasons for being in it, it is SF's own choice, but I still find it very difficult to see why SF thinks it is a good deal to go along with, in that there is that climate deterioration, and in that there are also the problems related to the social part. But I guess we just disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175648	Firstly, it is more equal than if we kept the tax. This shows the response of the Ministry of Finance, and I would like to translate them into the alternative. The second part of what I think is also crucial is that it was, after all, about funding so that we could set up coastal mills. I have noted that the alternative backs up, and we should find the funding for them. If we didn't have to find it in the Finance Act, I don't know where to fund it. And that is why I really would like to know where the alternative will find the money. Because they don't come out of the blue money isn't something you pick from trees. That is why we must argue on the basis of where we shall then find money for renewable energy in the future. Together, all five parties in the centre-left, we have chosen to draw up a climate plan which must also be financed. I hope, then, that we can find the money in the Finance Act in agreement, so that we can make the green expansion. If we cannot imagine it, we are faced with a huge challenge in relation to where the money is to come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175744	It is, of course, a pity to stop like this in the middle of the rapporteur's line, but I think we all appreciate having an hour's meal break. So I would like to say a word of thanks to the rapporteur, and then the rapporteur will have to make the last brief remarks at 1 p.m. 7:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531175808	Then I must say that the Minister for Employment (Troels Lund Poulsen) has informed me that he wishes to do so under Rule 19 (3) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 to provide the Folketing with a written statement dated 31/5 17 on efforts to reduce the burden on the implementation of vocationally oriented EU regulation. R 17). Copies will be distributed and the statement will appear in www.folkingstidende.dk.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190027	The sitting is resumed. We will continue with Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr on the floor as rapporteur for the SF, and the next brief remark to the rapporteur comes from Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190037	Thank you very much for that and thank you for a good rapporteur's speech with a very fine, forward-looking and progressive content. SF is probably one of the parties to which we are ideologically and politically most attached. There is also why we are stretching out our hand; we believe it is important to establish strong cooperation between the parties SF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten which share important political strides. But I also got a little upset the other day when I heard P1 because Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr had to explain the difference between Enhedslisten and SF and was told here that one of the differences is that Enhedslisten never enters into political agreements unless we get everything we point to something like that. I was a little surprised because we made three financial laws with the then government, the S-SF government, and an energy settlement, the Train Fund DK, a media settlement, and I think I could go on like that, and a few weeks ago, in a very good cooperation, we made an agreement on the fight against tax havens. So I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur can recognise that the difference may not be quite the way it was described.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190155	I'd definitely like that. My husband always tells me that I tend to say never or always. You have to practice not being so ultimate. You must also know in the Enhedslisten that you should be careful. That is, of course, correct. We also have areas where we fully share political views and where we will also need each other to do so in a possible change of government, among other things. the abolition of the ceiling on cash benefits, the abolition of the ceiling on training. I'd like to sign for the good cooperation. I am also delighted when we succeed in creating a broad alliance that goes all the way from Radicals to Enhedslisten on the green agenda, where we succeeded in creating a chronicle. And I am also delighted when we do something about social dumping in a collaboration that goes from the Enhedslisten of the SF and the Social Democratic Party to the Danish People's Party. It is also a form of broad political cooperation which we have also succeeded in doing in here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190247	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190249	Thank you. Following that, it is a little interesting when we look beyond Europe that we see this development, where the left or what might be called red and green parties are quite strong. We talk a lot about what is happening in Spain and Italy and France and elsewhere, but the reality is that we are also quite strong in Denmark. In fact, we are historically strong if you look at the parties we can define as red and green, i.e. SF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten. Does the rapporteur agree that this is an interesting development which we should try to see how we can benefit from drawing Denmark in a more green and solidarity direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190329	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190330	Absolutely. I think that cooperation is important. I also have the focus that I will not just wait until after the election. I'm also a little concerned about what might happen before the elections. Unfortunately, we cannot be sure that this government will be overthrown at the next elections. I will do everything in my power to do that, and I am sure that Enhedslisten will do everything in its power to do so, but in the meantime I will also go into other agreements to influence them in a red and green direction. SF is included in several agreements, among others. The high school reform, in which we fought for the average score to continue to be 2. That's one of the wins that was about SF was with. I'm sorry that Enhedslisten wasn't there. We may sometimes make different assessments, but that should not prevent us from working together in areas where we have common agendas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190414	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190417	Thank you and thank the SF rapporteur for the rapporteur's speech. I would really like to follow on from that, as my good colleague, Mr President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen tried, make another attempt to ask a little about SF's position and the fact that SF plans to roll back the cash aid ceiling. Because when we look at how many people have actually come out of the cash aid system by introducing the ceiling on cash benefits, I simply cannot understand why the SF still maintains that it is some of the things that will be fought to roll back. For the figures we have show that close to 7,000 people have actually come out of the cash assistance system, precisely because we have introduced the ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190509	First of all, it is not the case that all 7 000 people have come into work. Some of them have also just fallen completely out of the systems. We must be aware of this. The second is, and I actually think it's the ministry's own inventory • I'm not quite sure, but I actually think it's that almost 75%. of the people who are on cash benefits today are ill and will therefore not be ready to take a job. They're gonna get hit by the ceiling. They end up in a situation where they cannot take a job and their children will then feel the consequences of having a small amount of available money. And it's actually quite drastic. If you look at a married couple, like... If a child has a child, then their availability is less than 10,000 kroner. a month, and that is what you need to pay rent, food, leisure activities and other things. There we experience children who get into a lot of trouble and where you have to choose between buying medicine and having a children's birthday day. I don't think that's a dignified childhood.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190608	I simply do not understand the position of the SF in this area, because at the same time the rapporteur is very much concerned about giving more equal conditions. I hope, then, that the SF can recognise that the best way to really help these children, as the SF's rapporteur has just mentioned, is to ensure that their parents get to work. And when you know that a lot of people are actually now
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190646	The ceiling on cash benefits works for the small group whose only challenge is that they are unemployed. I agree with the Left on that point. But that is a very small proportion of the people who are on cash benefits. The majority of those who are on cash benefits have other challenges that cause them not to get to work. Maybe they don't have the right education and need to be trained. So let us together set aside some resources for this. The challenge may also be that they are ill and therefore cannot get to work. It may also be that they have been so long away from the labour market that they need hand-held action. One of the things I personally am very proud of is that, when we made the Fehmarn Belt agreement, we actually, together with the Left, made sure that social clauses were introduced which meant that people who had been a long time on cash aid came to work because we had a very, very handheld effort, which meant that people were almost awakened in the morning and were brought to work for a longer period. Some of them ended up in permanent work. It wasn't the pay that did it or that they were threatened with the whip. It was that we helped them to work. And I believe that more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190747	The last question in this round is Mr. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190752	Thank you. Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr says that a married couple with a child has 10,000 kr. available amount. It's wrong. The amount of availability is well over DKK 21,000. This is what, according to the Ministry of Employment, has been paid a month. Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr then shakes her head because she has some other figures, but I use the figures provided by the central administration, and I can also send an explanation of how it has been calculated. In comparison, a family who takes a job at the minimum wage agreed by the social partners has approx. 3,000 kroner. More to himself. That's the difference. There you just have to ask Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr why she doesn't think that you should get anything out of working when you work for a salary, as the trade union movement has said OK. to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190854	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190854-2	First of all, I think that working is more profitable. After all, you get more money, and you get more value in your work. I'm sure sir. Joachim B. Olsen finds it more flattering to sit at a dinner table and could say that he is in employment than if you were unemployed. So there's also that value in it. But having said that, it's not a number I'm making up. These are the Ministry of Employment's own figures, and they are from question 118 in this collection, where the Ministry of Employment answers that a married couple with a standard rental and with a child has 9,900 DKK. available amount.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190934	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531190935	I do not know the specific question, but I could imagine that it was an amount calculated solely on cash aid. But you get benefits other than cash benefits, and it is factually wrong when Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr says that a married couple with a child on cash benefits has 10,000 kroner. paid out. It's wrong. You have about 21,000 kroner. In other words, a few thousand kroner more is paid than if you work for the minimum wage approved by the Danish trade union movement. Of course, work also has a different value than what you get from it economically, but there is a reason why the trade union movement negotiates higher wages when there are negotiations. So that's why it means something in this context, I guess. Few people seem to want to work without making any financial use of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531191027	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531191028	Now we're talking about the Department of Employment's calculations, and I actually believe in the calculations made by the Ministry of Employment. If you look at Table 2 of the answer to Question 118 and I am quite sure that the Minister will confirm his answer, you can e.g. see that it says that married couples with a standard rental, and who have two children, have 14,600 DKK. I am talking about available amounts. What is crucial is what you have of money for, among other things. food, what you have of money for leisure activities, and what you have of money for medicine. It is a huge part of the cost for many people who are ill to pay the medical bill, and I have to say that I think it is a bit arrogant and to look down on these people who cannot get to work because they are ill, so to have to pester them a little extra by introducing a ceiling. In fact, I find that quite inconvenient. We should be able to treat people more dignifiedly in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531191128	I would like to thank the SF rapporteur. The next is Mrs Mette Abildgaard as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531191136	Thank you very much for the floor. We politicians work in words every day. There have been many words in the Chamber already, and sometimes we have to admit that it may end up in word-clanking. However, a great many words also lead to political agreements where we give each other our words and, above all, we translate words into deeds. Recently words also became poems, actually into a whole collection of poems, from one of the journalists who usually make the rest of us fumble according to the words of Christiansborg's passageways. Even the PM jumped out as a poet. I myself do not have much understanding of poems, so I will instead let my speech be inspired by others who have spoken in their power. In the parliamentary year we look back on, the Conservative People's Party entered the government. It wasn't a new position for us. This has happened many times before in the party's 101-year history. For we give priority to results at all times over Ramashang, as my Conservative colleague, Per Stig Møller, has said. But we must also be honest that we do not get everything we have wanted, even if we go into government. Neither did the Conservative People's Party when we made an agreement on the future housing tax. But we met our most important priority: to create security for the homeowners. Benny Andersen wrote that security is having a beer opener tied to his rocking chair. That doesn't sound crazy. But if you're never really going to sit in that rocking chair, because before that time you've been taxed from house and home, the beer bottler is a little comfort, and not even a waker is there enough mood for. Security is that you know your future and that the homeowners know their future, and we have ensured that. We have cancelled planned increases in the basic debt of the billions, and we have lowered tax rates. We had granted more on the wish list, but 28 billion. kr. Back in the homeowners' pocket, we are well satisfied with. Then I am very pleased that it became as broad an agreement as it did and that so many reached out and reached each other's hands. One hand in the hand is better than two in the pocket, Benny Andersen wrote too. Then there are those whose hands I prefer to see in a pair of handcuffs: the bikers and gangs who have created fear in Denmark. In 2016, there were 54 shootings in the public space related to biker and gang conflicts. With the gang package, we'll respond hard again. This is where we tighten up the gang code so it'll hit more people. We make it much harder for bikers and gang members to be paroled, and we increase the penalty for using firearms in public places. As something new, we introduce a residence ban, so if you have been playing city king in Vollsmose or in Mjølnerparken, part of the punishment may consist of a ban on staying in your old kingdom for as long as 10 years. It will undoubtedly have a great effect. There are critics who point to the fact that bikers and gang members are not made law-abiding citizens by locking them in, but I have to say that for the Conservative People's Party it is crucial that we always stand on the side of the victim. It's always where our sympathy will be. A Roman tragedy writer wrote that the best remedy for anger is a little meditation. Kenneth Jensen wrote in a poem that prison is when it is not you who decides the music, and it is quite simply our goal with the gang package: better time for thought, and fewer bikers and gang members who control the music. The music plays in exchange for a full sound in Danish business. Our hard-hitting business minister, Brian Mikkelsen, has fought with his usual knotted fists to strengthen Danish business and is basically doing well in Denmark. We have the lowest unemployment rate for 40 years minus 2 single years, we have the lowest number of citizens on public support for 10 years, and since the parliamentary elections 91 000 new private jobs have been created, the latest figures have been published today. But we are not satisfied here. We are happy to listen to the wise words of others. Therefore, the government has set up an entrepreneurial panel and a digital growth panel to advise the government and provide advice on how to meet our ambitions for the future. The fact that the Danish economy and the Danish business community are doing well is crucial to the fact that there is also money for welfare. Whether that's what Piet Hein was thinking of when he wrote the following, I don't really want to promise you to be a little careful about taking deceased people to income for views, but listen to us once again: We take care of our merchantship and weigh seriously the gain and loss; a scent, a dream, a paler in the blue, that's the reason our world rests on. Something else on which the world rests is our children and young people. But when there are children today who start school and start being 2 years behind their playmates when it comes to language and social skills, then we have failed as a society. The children at risk have been an important priority in the project presented a few weeks ago by our Conservative Minister for Social Affairs. 45 million will be spent here. kr. in 2018 to inter alia: to employ more educators in the institutions where children are most in vulnerable positions. For all children deserve the best. As Tove Ditlevsen so finely wrote: My heart loves all the impossible children. This parliamentary year was also historic for the many Danes who live with a disability of one kind or another. It is now finally becoming illegal to discriminate against people with disabilities, even outside the labour market. As a society, we must measure how we treat these vulnerable citizens. Something else that is exposed is the Danish nature. That is why I am very pleased that we found 363 million. kr. to our nature package. Among other things, it has to be done. ensure 25,000 hectares of untouched forest and biodiversity forest in Denmark. We have set aside money for several nature recovery projects, and since August nature care will become a new compulsory subject in agricultural education. In the new year we're about to start, we're also gonna have to make a natural cannon. It is a cannon that, in our opinion, should be for the people rather than for the professionals. It should not be a priority between two low species or rocks, but it should show the most beautiful thing Denmark has to offer, so that it will lure some more Danes into the wild. Because it is a well-known fact that if you first use nature, you also become easier to protect by nature. I agree with Herman Bang, who says it so simple: Nature, I love you. We must also protect Denmark. That is why we recently decided to send 200 Danish soldiers from the turn of the year to the Baltic States and Poland as part of the NATO force, a direct consequence of the Russian armament. This only underlines the need for the substantial increase in Danish defence, which we fought to get written into the government base. This will be one of the most important negotiations in the year that awaits us: the new defence settlement. We know that with a fingertips you don't get to spend 2%. of the gross domestic product of the defence. However, we have committed ourselves to this and we must ensure that a new defence settlement takes us in the right direction at least. For we must cherish the freedom that too many take for granted, so that we can quote Hans Christian Andersen calmly when he says: Peace over you, our fatherland. Let me conclude by thanking the other parties of the Danish Parliament for their good cooperation in the past year, first and foremost our colleagues in the government in the Left and the Liberal Alliance, with whom we have very quickly established a confidential relationship, and our support party in the Danish People's Party. Together we have ensured a firm asylum policy and control of the Danish border. Thank you to the Radical Left for helping to create a new housing tax agreement, thank you for your cooperation with the Social Democratic Party on a new plan law, in which we ensure development throughout Denmark, to the SF to help abolish the PSP and at the same time secure money for the green transition, and to the alternative to back up the soldiers we are now sending to war when our allies have asked for help, and finally thank you to the Enhedslisten for making proposals to abolish the blasphemy clause. My hope for the new parliamentary year, when we meet in this Chamber again in October, is that we will then be better at focusing on the many words that gather us, rather than the words that divide us. We owe it to the Danes. The form of government that we like best is undoubtedly democracy, but it is of the utmost importance that caution be exercised. You have to be good at making compromises and not steering with majority styranni. We look forward to continued close and good cooperation in the new parliamentary year. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192157	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mrs Trine Bramsen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192203	One might add that it was good that we prevented the government's plan for a higher retirement age, so you can sit in that rocking chair with the beer opener; after all, there is not much about being buried in it along with all its millions. But we need to talk about top tax reliefs. That was not much of the rapporteur's speech. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the Conservatives will have their mark on a future tax reform if the top tax rate is not lowered. Have you, then, Conservatives influenced the forthcoming tax reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192242	Let me start by adding that even with 141⁄2 years of retirement I might think that there was time to sit in the rocking chair and enjoy a single beer or two if I am to be honest. As far as the top tax is concerned, it is clear that when the Conservative People's Party enters into any negotiations, we are fighting to make prints. And in the Conservative People's Party, we do not want a top tax. In our long-term plan for Denmark we have such a •Vision 2034 • The top tax does not exist. But that does not mean that we believe that we will have it abolished with the tax agreement we will be making in the autumn. If we can ensure that we move in the right direction in relation to the top tax, it will be an important step and a necessary step. However, we are very realistic in relation to the negotiations that are waiting for the autumn. We are also listening to what is being said here in the Folketing and what is important for other parties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192330	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192331	The reason I'm asking is that both Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen and Mr. Brian Mikkelsen, who is now government ministers, has not held back in the past year in relation to statements about how much top tax relief means to the Conservatives. So I would ask very simply: can the Conservatives offer a guarantee here today that top tax concessions will be part of the government's forthcoming tax proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192403	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192404	The government's basis is very clear that there is an ambition to lower taxes both at the top and at the bottom. There will be a joint action after the summer holiday in this area, and what exactly it will look like, Trine Bramsen must arm himself with patience and see. But I can say that the Conservative People's Party is not a big fan of the top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192423	The next question is Mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192426	Thank you, and thank you for a fine and poetic speech. Conservatives are so famous for an ideology that is about building on what we know and not making the big, fast changes. I think this is the basic element of conservatism, which is why I am a little surprised that such carefree action can be taken to create a 2025 plan which is conducive to an historically low growth in public consumption. In other words, it is an experiment that we will be thrown into if we do this, because it means that for the first time in many, many years we do not allocate the funds that are needed just to keep up with the general demographic trend. There will be a shortage of billions of kroner each year if we are to ensure that each elderly person gets the same number of visits from the home helper and that the children down in kindergarten have the same number of adults. Is it not contrary to such common sense conservatism that you throw yourself into these experiments with our society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192534	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192535	It is probably always derived from such a little natural scepticism that one tries to interpret each other's political positions and that a folk socialist does so may cause me a little concern. But let me say that in the Conservative People's Party we believe in changing to preserve. And we want to preserve the welfare state we have in Denmark in a slightly different depiction than the one we know today. But we want to maintain the basic principle of a welfare state, and if we are to ensure that, yes, we need to change precisely in order to preserve. Then we will have to make the necessary reforms in order to be able to afford to deal with the most vulnerable citizens of our society in the future as well. If, in the past decades, we had not made the reforms that we have made in relation to pensions and cash benefits and everything else, yes, we would not have the opportunities to create the welfare society of the future either. So we are in favour of changing to preserve.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192625	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192626	It's okay. People's Socialist? At least I'm a socialist. That's how far it was. But what the rapporteur says is not quite right, because there is, of course, money for welfare. So, all economists from the far right out at the CEPOS and everyone else say that there is solid sustainability in the Danish economy. We can preserve and develop our good welfare society if that is what we want. But the government does not want that, because it will spend the money on giving tax rebates instead, even to those in society who have the most. Why throw society into this experiment?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192702	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192703	We don't throw society into any experiments at all. We are making the changes that are necessary to ensure that we can also have a welfare state in the future. And as long as we have one of the world's largest public sectors and have even presented a plan in which it is set up for growth, yes, I can also stand entirely at the goal of what we will deliver to the Danes. But it goes without saying that if we are also to be able to give our children and grandchildren a solid welfare society, it will require us to make the necessary changes all the time in order to pass it on in a good condition.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192733	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192737	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. I would like to ask a few questions about something which is of great concern to us, and this is the transition to a fossil-free society. I have discussed this with the rapporteur before, and I would like to know where the rapporteur stands now. Because you've reported this target in 30 percent. renewable energy by 2030, and that worries me about reaching a fossil-free society by 2050. Well, how do we get there when we now know that if we continue the growth we have right now in the transition to renewable energy, we would reach 60%. in 2030 and thus be closer to achieving the actual conversion? Can I have the rapporteur help me a little in this concern whether you can sleep completely safely by slowing down the transition to renewable energy for the next 10 years or where we are?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192831-2	I think the questioner made a small speech mistake. The government doesn't have a 30 per cent ambition. renewable energy by 2030, but 50%. renewable energy. 30% is, on the other hand, what you have in Germany, and the other day there was a big article in Politiken, where you boasted of the German driver's shirt in the green area, and here you were just right ahead in the field. In Denmark, we have a target of 50 per cent. In addition, we are being instructed by the European Union for the non-quota sectors, which are likely to be very high and which will require us to continue the conversion, including in the transport sector, in the housing sector, in agriculture and so on. So I am quite confident about the objectives we have, that together they ensure that we are moving in the right direction, also in order to meet the commitments we have made in the context of the Paris climate agreement not to have temperature increases of more than 2 degrees and preferably not more than 11⁄2 degrees. We have an obligation to future generations to ensure that we do our best to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531192932	I'm sorry if I said wrong, 30%. That's 50 percent. in 2030. That was a lot of numbers to mention, and that's the 50%. renewable energy by 2030, which is a de facto slowing down, because if we just continue with the growth we have now, we will be at 60%. in 2030. And what worries me is that suddenly, here and now, less ambitious targets are being set, where we should really put turbo on the switchboard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193001-2	I know no one has previously set a target for the share of renewable energy in Denmark by 2030. Some longer-term objectives have been set, but they have never been struck down by 2030 and said what the figure should be there. But it is clear that technological development also means that we are constantly becoming more effective in the way we make reductions. And this means that we cannot just expect that the reduction that is to be made will necessarily be the same year by year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193027	Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193029	I would also like to thank you very much for your cooperation on the housing agreement. It's true that 2034 is such a kind of funny year. I think it is something about the fact that when the Conservative People's Party was 100 years old, it was said that it was like pointing forward to the year when those who were born the year in which they were going to be 18 years old. But in connection with the housing tax agreement it is of course interesting because it is the year in which housing taxes will again constitute the same share of the Danish economy as they do today. And I'm just gonna sign for that. I think it is really important to get away from the idea of constantly squandering housing taxes, that there should be significantly fewer income from housing taxes, because it will have a major impact on our opportunities in the time waiting for these people who were born in the Conservative People's Party's Century. So thank you very much for coming back on the responsible financial path and spending the money where it is most needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193120	Sir. Morten Østergaard is absolutely right about the Conservative •Vision 2034 • where we just formulated the Denmark we want for the generations that were born last year and thus will be 18 years old in 2034. In relation to housing taxes, it has been crucial for us precisely to create security, create predictability. Some of the things we have particularly complained about in the developments we have seen in the landshed have been unpredictability, that individual homeowners have experienced increases of up to 7%. in their property every eternal year. I understand that many have found it difficult to finance. Now we're gonna have to cancel the basic rise in guilt. It is a very large amount of billions that we cut off from the calculation and we are also very happy about that from the Conservative side, just as we lower the rates and do much other good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193205	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193207	Yes, okay, I recognise it all, but I note that when we get to what I think is interesting, namely the conditions for future generations, the housing tax is as much of the economy as it does today. That is what we went to the polls for, and not quite what the Conservatives went to the polls for, but it should not separate us. What may be of interest to these children, who are now a single year or two years old, is what an educational system will be for them in the intervening period. And that is where the government has so far planned 10%. savings on all education in Denmark until 2020. Now we are heading towards 2025, and I just want to hear: is it the view of the Conservative People's Party that these children are heading for their 18th year through the education system to meet with an education system that will be up to 20% in 2025? less than you have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193303	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193304	I can tell you that in our Vision 2034 we are, in fact, proposing that we then have a completely different basic housing tax, namely a profit tax, taxing the proceeds of sales. We're still working towards that, though we've made this deal. In the conservative vision of 2034, we have a good education system, just as we do today, which embraces young people, and which provides quality education that provides the best conditions for further life. And, of course, we must constantly review whether we are doing this in the best way possible and whether we are also spending the money in the best way possible. There are not necessarily similarities between funds and results.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193342	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193346	Thank you. I would like to thank Mrs Mette Abildgaard for the speech today, which I thought mostly symbolised a new political culture, and it is nevertheless a little impressive for such an old party in the Folketing, but I think it is due to Mrs Mette Abildgaard's style; I think the rest of us should be inspired by that, because I like that properness. Having said that, since I have been kind, I am back on track again. I would like to ask the Conservative People's Party because I know that we have a common ambition for a high green hope for the future • whether we still believe that there should be a reduction in Danish CO2 by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193435	Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193438	Thank you very much for the question, and I particularly loved the first 91⁄2 seconds. Let me answer Pia Olsen Dyhr to the question in relation to the 40%.: The Conservative People's Party was part of the agreement that helped to achieve that objective, and we have also supported it in this way, after there were elections and we became the support party to the government. When we stood and had to enter a government, we had the opportunity to convert our 2020 target into an ambitious target for 2030 in terms of the share of renewable energy, and since it was not long ago that figures had been published that showed that, according to the forecasts, we in Denmark would already achieve our target for 2020, we thought it was a sensible trade to make, so to speak. What is crucial for us is the result that we are passing on to future generations, and I just have to say that one renewable energy target by 2030, I think, is getting more out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193532	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193533	Now everything is suggesting that we have received the latest figures from the Ministry of Climate and Climate that we just won't make it to 40 per cent. in 2020, but rather reach approx. 34 per cent So I would say that I hope it is not because the Conservatives have entered the government that we are now lowering our ambitions. But then we have to find a place where we can turn our ambitions up, and that is why I would like to ask whether the Conservative People's Party in the context of the Finance Act will ensure that new extra money is set aside for climate initiatives. Now that the focus of the Conservatives on housing has been put to death, does it have to have another heart cause? Could it be the climate area and the fight for billions for the climate area, as has been fought for billions for the residential area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193616	I would like to ask the three young colleagues to get into the grip if they want to talk. Thank you. Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193623	Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr is quite right that the latest projections that have been made do not show that they reach 40%, but that is one of them. Because of the PSO agreement, which Mrs Pia Olsen Dyhr has also helped to adopt, and I really have a lot of respect for it because it was a fundamentally necessary change that we had to do. The government has committed itself to this Mission Innovation, which among other things. The aim is to increase the funds we spend on energy research by 2020, and it is clear that this is something that we on the conservative side think is very good and supports, including in the internal government processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193656	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193658	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to return to the issue of top tax. I fully understand that the rapporteur is not going to say today what the government's proposals will be. But the fact is that when the Left was in government, there was a proposal about top tax. My question is simple: when Conservatives have now entered the government, do they become more or less ambitious on the issue of top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193721	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193724	I really believe that several of the Socialist questioners have forgotten the course we had in the autumn, when we had a lot of discussion about top tax. The Conservative People's Party said that we want the top tax abolished, but for us it wasn't worth so much that we would risk the government's life for these 5%. So it has never been an issue so important to the Conservative People's Party that we want to put the government's life at risk. It is clear that we have ambitions on the issue of top tax, because it is part of our Vision 2034. At that time, we want a flat tax of 33 percent. That's our long-term target for 2034. But we know that we are not going to achieve that with the agreement we are going to make in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193804	Sir. Jens Joel.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193805	No, you're not going to abolish the top tax in the fall. My question was quite simple: do you play in a government with the Conservatives more ambitious than when the Left was alone in government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193821	Here you go, Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193822	I don't understand. Jens Joel starts by saying that he knows that I'm not going to answer how the government plays out, and then he asks me to do exactly that, so answer how the government plays out. Now we have become three parties that have gone into government together, and it is clear that we then come together with a proposal in relation to the top tax. What exactly it's gonna look like, sir. Jens Joel arm himself with patience to see. However, I believe that we must have been very blind and deaf over the last six months if we have not seen how the previous announcement was received by the party which must form the majority in order to make an agreement on this. So, of course, you listen to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193858	We will continue in the socialist camp with Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193903	Thank you. And thank you for a committed speech. That's nice. To follow up where Mr. Jens Joel let go: the rapporteur says that one cannot stand here and present the government's proposals, but can the rapporteur perhaps come to an answer as to whether the rapporteur hopes and if the rapporteur believes that the entry of the Conservatives into the government will be enough to be more ambitious than when the Left was alone in government to abolish top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193942	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531193944	I think that in the proposal that comes from the government, it will be possible to see that, of course, the debate that has taken place in the autumn on this subject has become wiser. There have been both some for whom the top tax was extremely crucial, and there have also been some who made very clear announcements that the top tax was definitely not their cup of tea in relation to an abolition or a reduction for that matter. And, of course, you listen to the different messages coming. That would be strange other. But I'm not here today representing the government. I represent the Conservative People's Party, and I can say quite clearly and honestly that we want the top tax to be abolished, because we basically think it is wrong that people should be taxed extra heavily on those who come into a position where, so to speak, they are allowed to pay top tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194028	Mrs. Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194029	However, as a representative of the Conservative People's Party, will the rapporteur be satisfied if the final result is less ambitious than before the rapporteur's party entered the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194042	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194044	Well, the proposal that came from the previous government was, of course, committed to the expectation of having to negotiate with three parties. The proposal that will come from the new government will, of course, be made after only one party has to be negotiated. But, of course, we are exerting our influence within the government... it does all three parties; it is very natural. There are many ways to do this in relation to the treasure. We can look at the treasure at the bottom, we can look at the treasure at the top, we can see at the limit of when you pay top tax. There are a lot of different models for how to solve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194116	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194118	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a fine speech. In particular, I liked the quote from Tove Ditlevsen • My heart loves all the impossiblest children, those who no one cares about and no one understands. I understand Tove Ditlevsen that we must bring everyone along, and I also understand the rapporteur so that we must take everyone with us and take care of everyone. But I guess we won't get that if we spend the entire financial space on top tax incentives for the best paid Danes rather than investing in training and investing in the upskilling of our unskilled. Now the rapporteur says that she does not represent the government, but what is the rapporteur's position as a member of the Conservative People's Party on these huge savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194209	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194210	I think that Mr. Troels Ravn comes with a strawman when he starts by saying that one will apply the full scope to top tax reliefs. Not even if we were to abolish the entire top tax, we would spend all our room for manoeuvre on it. So that in itself is just basically wrong. It's not gonna happen in any way. We have set aside a pool where taxes are included as one element of several elements, and exactly how much it will take, you will see when we present an overall plan. But I am quite confident that we can have a healthy development in our welfare society with that growth of 0.3 per cent. in public consumption, which we have proposed in the plan that has already been presented.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194253	Sir. Troels Ravn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194254	I'm gonna change a few tracks. The Chairman of the Conservatives, Mr. Søren Pape Poulsen, told Berlingske on 18 June last year that a reduction in housing taxes was the party's absolute top priority. In view of the fact that the recently concluded Housing Tax Agreement does not contain the freezing of the ground debt that the Conservatives wanted, can the rapporteur elaborate on whether the Conservatives would put extra pressure on the government to implement top tax relief? And if so, can the rapporteur say something about when the government will have to carry out these top tax concessions at the latest, so that the Conservatives can be satisfied?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194333	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194334	The questioner started by referring to the housing tax agreement and it is quite true that the Conservative People's Party did not get the permanent freeze on the ground, as we would have liked. But as Noa Redington, a man whom I think the author's party finds very clever he has at least been an advisor to a former Social Democratic Prime Minister, said, the homeowners should be happy that the Conservative People's Party had been in the negotiating room, because we were the ones who fought the hardest fight for the homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194401	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194403	I would also like to thank you for the many fine quotations in the rapporteur's speech. And then I would like to ask whether the rapporteur can confirm that a bourgeois government's tax proposal is to be expected to be more ambitious than the tax reform presented by the previous government in 2012, which set aside 9 billion. kr. and raised the range of work with almost 16,000 people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194433	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194434	In fact, I did not expect any social democrats to brag about the tax agreement that was made at the time, when a great deal of money was being spent on lowering the top tax. I really find it very liberating that we have reached the point where we can boast that we ourselves have helped to reduce the top tax. We supported that then and voted for it, because we thought it was very sensible. We have an ambition to increase growth by 80 billion. kr. and increase the supply of work by 55,000-60,000. We will be presenting a series of initiatives within five headings to contribute to this. This is much more ambitious than the growth or business initiative I have seen from the Social Democratic Party, which, according to the estimates of the Ministry of Finance, will cost 250 jobs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194514	Mrs. Julie Skovsby.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194515	Thank you. It is of course important today, I think, for the Folketing to hear the ideological agenda of the Conservatives in relation to the forthcoming tax proposal. I actually understood it as a yes to my question, that is to say that the rapporteur answered yes. In other words, the government wants to carry out harder labour market reforms that give around this 15 billion. kr.? Does this mean that it can be concluded that it is the government's policy to finance its tax reform with the announced labour market reforms?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194556	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194557	I can confirm that the government has an ambition to increase labour supply by 55,000-60,000 people. I think it was interesting earlier today to hear the Social Democratic Party President recognise that the biggest challenge for companies is to get qualified labour, yet one is not willing to make exactly the reforms needed to increase labour supply. We are willing to do this in the government, because it is a prerequisite for us to continue to experience growth in this society, even to a greater extent than we have done in the last few years, when we are lagging behind Norway and Sweden, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194628	Then we leave the Social Democracy for a moment and take a small step to the left. Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194635	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for a good and committed speech. I was particularly attached to the love of the Conservatives for nature. And that is why I would like to ask about the Government's plans for more seafarming in Kattegat, which are based on a claim by the Minister for the Environment and Food that there is an environmental room for manoeuvre in Kattegat, that is to say that the environment can tolerate more pollution without harming it. That claim is not correct and has been refuted by several scientists and experts in the marine environment, because the environmental state in Kattegat is so bad that if you increase pollution, the environment and nature will be damaged, and there is a risk of situations of algal bloom and oxygen loss. It is clear that it places people who live on the coasts of Djursland in particular, in great fear and concern, people who live on tourism and fishing to and in Kattegat. With regard to the agricultural package, I remember clearly that it was heartblood for the Conservatives that the environment and nature should not be harmed as a result of the regulatory changes proposed. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the same applies to marine farming, i.e. that the expansion of marine production should not mean that nature and the environment are getting worse.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194755	Thank you for the question. I can confirm that it is also important for the Conservative People's Party in the field of marine farming that there are compensatory measures which exactly compensate for the excess emissions that are allowed. This was important for us in the context of the agricultural package and it has been important for us here in the field of aquaculture. We have also secured this in the agreement that a very broad majority in the Danish Parliament supports. I am glad that the Social Democratic Party is also included in this agreement. In relation to the compensatory measures used, for example, in the form of mussels, it is, moreover, well tested; it is worthwhile to deposit it, it is important to say that there must be compensation in relation to the additional emissions that are coming. We also need to make sure that it takes place physically. It will be among other things. I think it would be a good idea for us to take up these mussels and weigh them four or five times over a season to ensure that they are fattened up, as it were, in relation to the projection we had made, and that this way we ensure that the compensatory measures not only work on paper, as it were, but also work in reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194855	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194856	We're not talking about the same thing. The rapporteur speaks of more marine farms in the water framework directive area, where compensation will be sought. I am talking about the plans for more marine farms in the area of the Marine Strategy Directive, in other words in the open part of Kattegat, where there will be more marine farms on the basis of a claim that there is an environmental room for manoeuvre, which is wrong. Should I understand the rapporteur's view that the rapporteur and the Conservative People's Party will guarantee that compensation will be provided in the open part of Kattegat if you want more marine farms there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194927	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194928	I can give my word that we have made an agreement in which we authorise more marine farms, but on a basis in which we consider that it is justifiable in relation to the state which is now once the place where it becomes possible. There are skilled officials, researchers and others who have pointed this out. It's not an idea you've just gotten out of thin air and all of a sudden you've come up with yourself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194950	The next question is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531194953	Thank you. My heart it loves all the impossible children, those that no one can understand and no one cares about, lying children, stealing children and wrestling children. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech and for the reference to Tove Ditlevsen, whose heart hated these nice hedge-cutter waxers and who did not like nice children who stood on their feet and could speak of God with a clear conscience. I don't know if that sounds so conservative to me. Tove Ditlevsen had a very social voice, especially with regard to the most impossible children, who became impossible young people and sometimes became criminal youths and criminal adults. When I get to grips with this, it is because I repeatedly miss the social voice of the Conservative Party in relation to prevention to ensure that the most impossible children do not end up being adults to whom we just say punishment, punishment, punishment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195059	I hope I have not given the impression that all the poets I quoted in my speech were of conservative interest. I dare vouch for Per Stig Møller, but I will not judge the others. Maybe I'd like to take a moment to make a note of this... with the loot-wrestling kids. It's really a pretty nice expression from Tove Ditlevsen. It is true that this is how the poem continues. In relation to the issue of ensuring prevention and not just focusing on when the damage has happened, it is quite right that it is, of course, also central. That is why there will soon be a new initiative from the government, which addresses juvenile delinquency. I know that we have a Minister of Justice who has himself been very committed to the whole SSP work and knows how important it is, including for young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195151	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195154	That is also what I have been wondering over and over again as the legal rapporteur, namely that when we have a Minister of Justice who has worked with SSP employees, even in the City of Viborg, who is praised for his work I do not know if it is a praise that has come to us since then, but at least it is a municipality that stands out and then has to hear again and again: well, we will take care of that later. Every time there's a problem with the impossible kids, with the impossible kids, those who become criminals, we hear only punishment, punishment, punishment. I hope that is not the full picture of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195230	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195231	I fully agree with the rose to the City of Viborg. There we have a clever Conservative mayor who is also working hard in this area. There will be an initiative from the government that addresses juvenile delinquency. This will be a balanced exercise, because, of course, prevention needs to be considered, but I also have to say that we have to send a signal to young people, too, that it has consequences when you get into trouble with the law, when you commit vandalism, when you practice violence. There have been some terrible stories about quite young people as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195301	The next question is Mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195304	Thank you for that, and thank you for your words, I would like to say to the rapporteur, who, after her observation, has very much and very much insisted on the need for us to increase the defence budget to 2%. or 17 billion. kr. I could understand from the rapporteur that it would make a very big difference if extra investment were made. The rapporteur did not mention anything about the massacre of education in recent years, with the ceiling on education, savings in high schools and universities etc., so I would just like to ask: why is it that the extra money for defence will make a difference when you do not think that extra money for education will make a difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195350	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195351	Let me put it this way: if we send Danish soldiers to war and we are not willing to give them the equipment that is necessary, then we are putting the lives of Danish soldiers unnecessarily at risk. If we do not invest in our Danish defences in a situation where we have Russia, which equips and spends far, far more money on military, security, police, etc. than we do here at home, yes, if we do not manage to take responsibility for our own security, then it can be completely irrelevant with education system and cuttings and higher education and everything else. We have to defend ourselves basically as a nation. We have undertaken to do so. I don't agree with Donald Trump on a lot of things. God knows that, but I understand that as American president, he is wondering why we are not willing to invest at home what is necessary in defending ourselves when the threat to Europe is greater than it has been for many decades.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195447	I ask because I think there was an important quote that the rapporteur forgot in his speech, namely by a royal person, Frederik VI. I now know that the Conservatives like royal people, who said: 'Because we are poor, we do not also have to be stupid'. That can also be transferred to this by saying: why not invest in education, why not invest in it? Why not listen to others? former good royal people? Then I would like to know if it is true that it is more important for the Conservative People's Party to invest in soldiers and sniper rifles than to invest in school crayons and school teachers.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195524	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195525	Normally, I like quotes, including from the royals, but I just have to say that school crayons are secondary when it comes to national security. School crayons can be quite unimportant if we are not sure that we can protect ourselves as a nation. I recently read an article about Povl Falk-Jensen, who was the Danish resistance man who killed most informants during World War II. He was asked: What concerns you most in today's Denmark? He replied that the Danes take freedom for granted, that they do not appreciate freedom. You have the impression that it has always been there and you have the expectation that it will always be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195600	The next question is Mrs Lea Wermelin, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195602	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur say in his speech that you do not get everything you want, and that can be true enough in politics. On the other hand, it is to be expected from government parties that they will, after all, put forward what they would like to get through politically. I heard the rapporteur say that Conservatives and the government had listened to the Danish Parliament when it came to top tax, and the Danish People's Party has just now been out and refused to take the path that Conservatives want, namely to abolish top tax, to make tax cuts at the top. So how did Conservatives listen? Can the rapporteur not elaborate on this? So, can we expect a more or less ambitious proposal from the government when Conservatives, who want to abolish the top tax altogether, have come along?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195657	Of course, a government party can be expected to put forward its plans, and we will do so in the government as well. But it should also be possible to expect a party that would like to be the governing party after the next election, for example, to make something as fundamental as a proposal for a financial law, so that one can try to show how one wants to use the state budget itself. In relation to the tax proposal coming in the autumn, I would say that I do not believe that we have ever claimed that we would be making a proposal in which we set out to abolish the top tax altogether. I don't think many people have an expectation of that. What I have heard from the Danish People's Party is that if tax cuts are to be made, you have a desire to give priority to the tax at the bottom. I think this is a fair priority, and in the Conservative People's Party we also agree that it is worth making an effort in that area, and then we just hope that there can be means to do something at the top.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195746	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195748	It's not like I'm making this up. It is, of course, the rapporteur's own party chairman who wrote on Facebook last April about the abolition of top tax: we cannot afford to let the abolition of top tax lead to growth and prosperity, and it is well-being; it is that simple. Of course, I do not agree with the rapporteur's party chairman, but that is the policy of the rapporteur, which is why I think we should be able to expect to know today that the rapporteur has now had the opportunity to ask the Social Democratic Party about our policy, and now we are asking the rapporteur about the policy of the rapporteur: what comes from the government will be more or less ambitious. Or how have you listened to the Danish People's Party? We did not get an answer to that in today's debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195827	I actually think there are a lot of Danes who are following this debate, who are wondering: why do you spend so much time asking questions about something that comes up with answers when there is an initiative from the government? Why is it that we have to spend our time politically? Don't we have better things to care about? I can stand entirely at the mark of the position of the Conservative People's Party and it is very clear that we want to abolish the top tax. I have also been very clear about the fact that it will not be part of that proposal for an agreement that will come from the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195857	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531195900	Thank you. Mrs Mette Abildgaard said that Europe is threatened more than it has been for decades. I would like to remind you that just over ten years ago we saw a Putin who wanted to be a member of the European Union and NATO, trying to increase trade and find peaceful solutions to the conflicts that existed. In that situation, he lost support at home in his own country. In fact, there were such large demonstrations that he was even losing the presidency. Then we started making sanctions and stepping up our military activities. Then his popularity rose in Russia. I have nothing left for Putin, but I would like us to conduct foreign policy that is not stairwelled but that is security-building, and that means that I would like us to use more non-military conflict resolution than we are doing today. What do you Conservatives think about that? It seems that the Conservatives have only one solution: the military. We'll send them when there's a problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200010	I do not really believe that any politician takes the decision to send Danish soldiers to war lightly or to send some soldiers to war at all. That is why I must also say that it is never the first thing to do as a politician, that is to say to resort to that means. Of course we try through diplomacy, we try through mediation, we try through 117 other methods. But I also have to say that when we have a Russian president who has annexed Crimea, who supports pro-Russian separatists, and who behaves so aggressively it is therefore a country that has hacked the Danish Defence Ministry not very long ago, yes, then we have to be able to defend ourselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200048	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200049	Well, now I certainly hope that it is not conservative politics that we are going to war with Russia. Well, it is a small army they have, and they only spend a sum the size of what Italy spends, but yet, to go for us to go in a military conflict with Russia, that was the most crazy thing I would like. I would like the government to try non-military means of conflict resolution to try to build a capacity at our universities so that we could be more skilled at using those tools. I believe that skilled people could actually get us back to the time when there was good contact between Russia and Europe without military.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200130	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200132	Of course, Denmark is not going to war with Russia. I don't want that to happen. Denmark is part of an alliance in which we have promised to protect each other if our sovereignty is violated. NATO is a community, it is an alliance. It is an alliance that we have failed for many years by not contributing our share of the common defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200155	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen from IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531200208	Thank you very much. Although it has been many hours since the Prime Minister was on the floor, I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his introductory remarks. And from Inuit Ataqatigiits we also sign for a predominantly constructive cooperation both with the Prime Minister and with the government. In his speech, the Prime Minister mentioned that the most important decisions are taken in Greenland. But it is also important to remember that here in Things we are making a large number of important decisions on behalf of Greenland. Over the last few years, we have seen that the debate on the common foreign and security policy in this Chamber has become a long debate. This indicates an increasing interest and commitment in the Folketing, and I would very much like to thank the parties here in the Folketing for that. It means incredibly much to us in Greenland that we find that the Folketing is not only concerned with purely Danish matters, but is also concerned with common matters. Because it is a common cause when we feel responsible for strengthening the police, the criminal services and the judiciary in Greenland. It is a common cause when we want a stronger involvement of Greenlanders in the defence tasks in Greenland. It is a common cause when we ensure a strengthened effort for the most vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. As a member of parliament from Greenland, I usually say that we have more than 32 rapporteurs. In addition to the 32 areas Denmark is responsible for on behalf of Greenland, I and my North Atlantic colleagues also have a further responsibility. On the one hand, we have a responsibility as financial rapporteurs on behalf of our party and, on the other hand, we have a responsibility as group chairman of our own small group, which is made up of us. And since last year we have been involved in the financial law negotiations. That was alla the first time we were there. This was a step in the right direction, in which we do away with some of the abuses that have taken place in the past and where North Atlantic MPs are experiencing negative discrimination. The Constitution states very clearly that, despite the constituency we represent, we are all members of parliament on an equal footing. Unfortunately, this is not always reflected in the daily practice here in the Folketing. Greenlandic MPs are kept outside the door in some of the conciliation negotiations where Greenland's interests are directly and clearly at stake. We need to look at what the conciliation partners within, for example, are doing. Defence has been achieved even when it comes to Greenland. This exclusion of Greenlandic MPs does not live up to the spirit of the Self-Government Act or the Constitution for that matter. It is simply out-of-date, inappropriate and at odds with democracy. It is discriminatory when we are regarded as B members of the Folketing, when the Constitution states that we are all members on an equal footing. As a person and as a party, we are concerned about being constructive. We meet a closed door for a settlement negotiation or for a bet pool negotiation or elsewhere we find another way around it. We could just stand on our hind legs from the side of our party. We could also talk about how arrogant the government is. Believe me, you can be tempted to do so, and we know there are Greenlandic politicians who are tempted to do so. But I think it's too easy. I do not think that it is good for Greenland that we give up or when we just let things go. Basically, it is not for us at Inuit Ataqatigiit or, for that matter, for a country that wants to be independent, to stand on its hind legs. It is important to be constructive. For us, it is about rolling up our sleeves and continuing the work that is here in the Folketing. For the pool negotiations earlier this year, we just met a closed door, but we chose to go round and talk to a number of social rapporteurs here in the Danish Parliament, and in this way we helped to ensure influence on behalf of Inuit Ataqatigiit. A record amount was secured for a renewed effort towards socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. So from Inuit Ataqatigiits we can experience not being invited to the negotiating table, but then we have to talk to those who sit at the table. The government could be tempted to say that fine, then it's under control. But no, I think it is too easy to renounce responsibility on the part of the government. If, on the one hand, the Prime Minister wants to preserve the Kingdom community but, on the other hand, is not willing to develop the Kingdom community, then there is something that, in my view, is not connected. The Kingdom community is not in a state of standstill, but is something that we must jointly develop together. At the heart of the Commonwealth is the Folketing as one of the three parliaments we have. Participation in key negotiations is a modern democracy, and that is why I would again call on the government to ensure a much greater involvement of the North Atlantic MPs in the settlements that concern Greenland and the Faroe Islands. In the past year, we have also achieved a large number of concrete results. 46.4 million has been set aside. DKK, as I mentioned earlier, for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark and for children and young people in Greenland. Funds have been allocated to the international work of the ICC for indigenous peoples. Resources for mobility for Greenlandic students in the Arctic have been secured through support for U-Arctic. Tomorrow we will be discussing Inuit Ataqatigiit's proposals for justice. Here we see that there is a massive need to ensure a strengthened justice system. And during August, Inuit Ataqatigiit will come up with a defence policy initiative that builds on the knowledge gained in the Arctic analysis that the government came up with last summer. For Inuit Ataqatigiit, it is important that we get input from the population and that is why we have held a large number of dialogue meetings in Greenland, what we call politics, which is a combination of politics and coffee. We have held this in the two largest cities in Greenland, Nuuk and Sisimiut. Because we would like to have the input in defence from the people, who actually have a very, very much to heart. For the last two years I have traveled a lot in Greenland, and I have experienced a great interest and a great interest among others. on defence, but also on the things we do here in the Folketing. This year, the focus for us has been very much on justice and defence. It is gratifying for us that a dialogue has been initiated on these two issues in Inatsisartut. It is also important, when we discuss some things here that need to be implemented more than 3,000 km away, that Inatsisartut also has a position on how things should look forward. In the coming year, our focus will be on foreign policy and on business policy. Although the latter is a reclaimed area, it is also important for us to relate to how we can attract investment to new initiatives in Greenland. In the autumn we will be holding Model United Nations, where we would really like to focus on the Arctic and discuss international relations with young people in Greenland. The parliamentary year has been a really busy year for Inuit Ataqatigiit. We have a very large constituency. The whole of Greenland is our constituency. So it's no use just getting home to where your hometown is. It's also a lot about getting around. I have been 16 different places in Greenland just in the past year. With regard to many of the decisions we take here more than 3,000 km away from Greenland, it is important that we ensure this involvement also from the citizens of Greenland that these matters are about. I would like to conclude by thanking all the colleagues here in the Danish Parliament for their good cooperation over the last year. Inuit Ataqatigiit has chosen to be Greenland's free voice. We also see that there is a sensitivity across the parties. Sometimes we might wish it was a little bigger. After all, however, we find that both parties, but also the government, are listening to what we are saying. There are many things to wear in the years to come, and I just want to thank you for the past year, and I look forward to fruitful cooperation for the next parliamentary year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201137	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first question is Mr. Morten Østergaard, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201144	I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. I think that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has been good at bringing up some important discussions. I'm thinking, among other things. At the conference on the conditions of children and now also the question of the judiciary. Of course, we will be very open to this. I think that what has been difficult in these discussions has been finding a balance. How do you discuss obvious challenges in Greenlandic society without us coming with help that we have not been asked for? That is why I think it is very important that those discussions come in here so that we can do something together. This applies both to areas which have been repatriated and to areas which are not. So we can work together to meet some of the challenges that exist. This is particularly true of vulnerable children and young people and the area of the Ministry of Justice, the area of crime, where I think it would be good if we could bring Greenland forward together.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201241	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201242	Thank you very much for the question. Sometimes, when you come from Greenland, it takes some courage to get to grips with some of the difficult discussions. This also applies when we talk, for example. Constitutional work, independence work. It is important to remember that strong schools must be available in the future, there must also be a strong community of law. Here in the Folketing we have a responsibility in the area of justice. I would say that there is a great deal of room for improvement in this area. If you look at the figures, you can see that there are ten times as many felony crimes in Greenland as there are in Denmark. I mean, there are 34 times as many rapes in Greenland as there are in Denmark. Of course we have a social responsibility in Greenland. We've taken the whole social area home. However, the area of justice also helps to ensure, when there is an offence, that action can be taken, and this helps to ensure an effective and competent judicial system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201346	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201347	That's exactly my point, because here we come to something. If the objective is to reduce sexuality crimes and fewer rapes in Greenland, then it is not just done to strengthen the judiciary. Hopefully we can ensure that justice is done, but the interesting thing is how we get men to stop raping women. And if they've done it once, how do we make sure they stop it when they get out of prison again? That is where things are crossed and where I sometimes think there is a tendency for some policy to go into it. And I wish we could find ways of discussing what is, of course, an obvious issue which should be of interest to everyone: how can we improve such matters?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201433	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201434	Basically, I think this is about knowledge, because I also think that many people may not be aware of the real challenge. In IA we took the initiative for a discussion in Greenland on justice, and it is actually relatively new that these very specific areas, which are actually a parliamentary matter, are taken up in IA. But I think it is actually a very good example of how you can discuss exactly at home in Greenland, what we want our legal society to look like in the future, and what is important to us, precisely in terms of ensuring prevention and in relation to the crime prevention area. And the clear position in Greenland is that we really want cooperation between Greenland and Denmark in finding solutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201519	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201523	Thank you for that, and thank you for your speech. I would like to thank you for your cooperation in the area of justice, which I think has been very exciting. Last time we had a hearing on the issue of justice in Greenland, what my question is really is what the rapporteur's party wants us to do here in Denmark as soon as possible. Is it the whole case, or is it in relation to placements, or what is it? Can the rapporteur clarify his wishes in relation to the area of justice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201604	With regard to justice, it is basically about ensuring that there are proper competences within the judiciary. You have what you call equality of arms, and that means that both defenders and prosecutors must be well dressed in educational terms. Today, as a defender of a relatively short training course. It is a secondary job, and I think that we unfortunately have a bias in relation to the competences and tools of both the prosecutor and the defender. People solve it very well within the framework that they have once done, at least it's my experience in the circuit courts, but there's a need for us to have a general increase in jurisdiction in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201649	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201650	Thank you. I assume that is in Greenland, and that means that what we are talking about here is helping with funding in relation to education in Greenland. Or can the rapporteur elaborate on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201703-2	Yes, it is in Greenland, and that is why I think it is so important that we hear people just now, i.e. also the Legal Affairs Committee in Inatsisartut, who was also involved in this hearing. We have tabled a motion for a resolution which will be debated tomorrow and which takes account of some of these points. Generally speaking, it can be said that crime in Greenland is too high and we have to deal with it, even as Parliament, when it is we who have the formal responsibility in relation to the whole area of justice. After all, the area of justice is also police and criminal justice, we must bear in mind, and here too there are some very large and obvious shortcomings that we need to address.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201741	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201744	Thank you. From a visit to Greenland I know that there is many times more violence and many times more murders and attempted murders than in Denmark. But it is new to me that the rate of rape is as high as Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen says here, and also for the crimes of morality. I think it is important that we go on two legs and say that preventive work and the judicial system must, of course, work together. Speaking of the judicial system, I think I understand that it is true that there is a lack of training for both the police and the staff in the institutions, but that is also true of the district judges, I understand. I thought they were fully in line with Danish circuit judges in their education. I would like the rapporteur to elaborate on how we can strengthen the whole area of justice, in addition to saying that there must be some more education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201844	I need to straighten something out with the police. For you actually have an education at the same level, but you just don't get the same salary if you are educated in Greenland as if you are educated in Denmark. This is a clear distortion which needs to be corrected. There should be an equal pay for equal work. Compared with the policemen in the asylums, they get a shorter education, and that is one of the things that we in Inuit Ataqatigiitis think should be corrected. In relation to the district judges, it can be said that this is an education which the judicial system has worked with some legal educators, but providing the district judges with legal training will certainly be a goal for Inuit Ataqatigiit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531201933	It was also a statement on my part, because I am quite aware of the police situation. But, on the other hand, I was not aware that wages are different, and that is something we have to make up for. I would say that we would like to support equality there, because when you are a kingdom community, there must of course also be a level playing field, whether it is a settlement or the Copenhagen Centre. It's something that goes without saying. I understand that there are also problems with the judgment databases and legal information in Greenland. Someone told us that at least during a discussion with legal experts up there at some point. Is it still the case that there are problems with e.g. to have a database where, as in Denmark, you can see the various judgments handed down, where you use the old judgments to get uniform judgments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202023	We are missing a judgment database in Greenland, and that is one of the points that can be pointed out and that should be worked on. I know that we are looking at it, but it is also difficult in a small society. Because it becomes extremely clear when you can quickly know the people without necessarily knowing the name or the cpr number, i.e. even if those things are not on the sentence. So, of course, there are some of the considerations. In general, it can be said that digitalisation can help ensure a more efficient system. It is also about transparency. We have, for example. Not criminal penalties, as you have in Denmark. Basically, it can be said that if the judge and the police chief sit down and decide what the penalty for a rape, for example. I want it to be, that's what sets the line for how high the penalty should be. It is a challenge that it is no longer what to say democratically decided what to get for an offence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202123	The next question is Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202126	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his fine speech, both now and also during the debate on the Kingdom Community. I say this because the preservation of the kingdom community, the preservation of the close relationship between Greenland and Denmark is something that is very close to my heart. That is why it annoys me when the rapporteur may indirectly call the government arrogant in relation to the Kingdom community. I say this because, precisely during the debate on the Kingdom Community, I felt at least that there was a great deal of focus on it on the part of the Danish Parliament, on the part of the government, and there was also a great deal of agreement in the text of the adoption on the very development of the Kingdom Community, while at the same time there was a clear openness and respect for a possible constitution if Greenland were to go and choose to become independent. But now the rapporteur says that the rapporteur is pleased that the government is showing great interest in mobility, in increased cooperation in the area of justice and in cooperation in attracting investment, and I know that we are also doing a great deal to increase our defence cooperation. I feel that this is a bit of a contrast because, on the one hand, we are summarizing all the areas where we are even better at working together, but at the same time we are critical of a government that is not doing enough to develop the Kingdom community. Can the rapporteur perhaps say a few words about the direction in which we are going here? Is it praise to the government, or is it criticism to the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202300	If the rapporteur had listened, he would have heard that I said that I think it is too easy to say that the government is arrogant. I referred to a former member of Naalaksuisut, who has called the government arrogant. For me, it is important to be constructive, and this has always been the line I have taken and which I intend to take for the next two years as well. I think we have achieved a large number of concrete results, and I also think that there has been good cooperation in general, it can be said, not only with the parties in the blue block, but also with parties in the red block. We are defending Greenland's interests, and this cannot be put into a blue block or a red block matrix, which I think is quite important to emphasise, and we have just chosen to go to the polls to be Greenland's free voice and take care of some Greenlandic interests here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202355	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202356	Thank you for clarifying that. I would then like to congratulate the rapporteur on one of the rapporteur's main areas of interest, which is precisely the cooperation to attract investment to Greenland, for example. in the field of transport, where I have said, at least several times in the past, that Iceland has had huge success in attracting tourism, among other things. Because it's so easy to fly straight to Iceland. There we have talked several times about the fact that it is not easy to fly to Kangerlussuaq and from there on. I'll be brief. Can the rapporteur say a few words about what the rapporteur himself will do to attract investment to develop airports at Ilulissat and/or Nuuk?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202445	In general, we from Inuit Ataqatigiits have just had a great deal of focus on business policy, and we will also have that in the coming parliamentary year. We have been around talking to different pension funds, and we have been around talking to different people who could be interested in investing in Greenland in general, not necessarily only in relation to infrastructure, and there are a large number of projects in Greenland that are becoming more and more mature, one can say. One of the things I've been advocating is that we have to make sure that it's on commercial terms when we have to secure these investments from the outside, because it's relatively new to Greenland with these very massive investments. There are actually very many different projects on the drawing board, but it is the ripening of the projects that is important for Greenland now also in relation to infrastructure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202531	Next in line, sir. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202533	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would also like to sign for a very good cooperation here in the Folketing at many levels. In the speech filled the defense a great deal, in fact I might even say disproportionately much. Of course, I have a great deal of sympathy for this, and I am actually very satisfied with it, because I am the Liberal Alliance's defence rapporteur. I would also like to say that I must do my best to ensure that after the forthcoming defence settlement there are no parties left feeling as B members or inferior in any way whatsoever. However, there must also be a political path, we can say that you can play on, and there must be some kind of opportunity to see IA in defence policy cooperation. That is why I would like to see the rapporteur perhaps developing the defence policy of the IA a little more generally, and perhaps even including the very harsh discussion about independence in Greenland at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202633	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202634	Now I know that the rapporteur is also Greenland's rapporteur and therefore has a dual interest, one might say, in this matter. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we have just made a proposal that Inatsisartut should discuss what defence should look like in the future. I also think it is very positive that there is a dialogue on this in Greenland. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we are particularly concerned with civilian defence tasks. Today it is the case that there are relatively few Greenlanders employed in Arctic Command. We really wanted to see some more. We would also like to see the possibility of military basic training, which has been on the drawing board in the past, being reconsidered in the conciliation circle. In this way, there are a large number of initiatives, such as: The Greenland Guardians. I think it is very interesting to see how we can support the roll-out of these initiatives as well. Because in a way it can be said that as Greenlandic MPs we can also help to bridge the bridge when we make a decision down here about something that needs to be done so far away. We can join in and provide the insight that we have about Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202742	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202743	Thank you. That was certainly part of the answer. Perhaps the rapporteur could say a few words about how the rapporteur would view sovereignty enforcement in Greenland after possible independence in relation to the debate on independence in Greenland at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202802	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202803	In relation to the entire constitutional process and the process of independence, it is a debate that must take place in Greenland. Now we have taken a great deal of trouble with this in the Danish Parliament, and it is actually a little off that Greenland will not have the opportunity to discuss it before. It has been discussed briefly in Inatsisartut, but it is very important to ensure that the people are also heard. The time horizon is often asked about when you talk about independence and the whole constitutional process, and as it looks at the moment, approx. Two to three years to this whole process, but there's an opportunity to extend that work. I think it is important that we respect the fact that the dialogue should first be held in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202844	The next question is Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202846	Thank you for that, and thank you from here to the rapporteur for the speech. I think that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen always works both solidly and very engaged in Greenlandic affairs here in the Danish Parliament. The rapporteur described that there are some things about defence and some wishes, and also that there have been citizens' meetings in Nuuk and Sisimiut. In fact, I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to perhaps make some of what the citizens have said is very important for them in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202923	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531202925	Thank you very much. Recently we held, among other things. politics in Sisimiut, where we heard the people there. There was also municipal preparedness, and they gave a paper on their tasks. They really wanted them to get involved more. Once again, I believe that building bridges between Danish authorities that work in Greenland and Greenland authorities is a really, really important task, because I think that there are a lot of resources in the Greenlandic community • both volunteers, but also in the long term in Arctic Command, I think, and the various authorities that are already there. This also applies to the police, with whom there is good cooperation today, but we also know that there is a challenge in terms of monitoring Greenland's waters and the Greenlandic area with which we have to deal. These are some of the considerations and concerns I hear. For example: I also spoke to a fisherman in Saattut in North Greenland at a time which then also mentioned that when he comes sailing, he finds that nothing happens almost when you enter Greenlandic territorial waters, but when you sail to Canada, the authorities are there right away. So I think there is a challenge there that we have to deal with. It is also described in the Arctic analysis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203042	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203043	In his rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur also says that it is very important to upgrade the area of justice, particularly to defenders and to district judges. I agree with that. There's an imbalance there that's not okay. But I am also thinking of how we can achieve a higher level of education that can match what can be done on the dock. I wonder whether the rapporteur has some comments on how to lift it from below. Because I think it has to start in primary school so that you can achieve your own abilities there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203125	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203126	I understand that the Social Democrats do not necessarily support the resolution that we in Inuit Ataqatigiit will be tabling tomorrow. I find this extremely regrettable, because what we are really trying to say is that if we lift the police area, it will also have a positive spill-over effect in the area of justice. We need to see these three different areas, i.e. the police, the criminal services and the judiciary, in their entirety. Yes, there is a need to raise the entire level of education. We use 16%. of our GDP in Greenland on education. Unfortunately, we do not see the results that are needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203205	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203208	Thank you. As in many other contexts, I would like to hear a little about the conditions of the students, i.e. the conditions of Greenlandic students. I was fortunate enough to be on the orientation trip to Greenland last year, where we also heard about the Greenlandic students, i.e. how they felt, and how they, like sometimes, had a rather abrupt transition from student life in Greenland to that in Denmark. So I would really like to know whether the rapporteur has thought about how to make it easier to be Greenlandic students coming to Denmark, i.e. whether there are any political efforts that can be made here in Denmark to ensure that more people get through an education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203250	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203251	Thank you very much for the question. I believe that there are many things you can do to ensure a gentle transition from a Greenlandic society to a Danish society. The language is, of course, a challenge to some. We also have a huge group of very talented Greenlandic students who just make it through the university, but unfortunately we see that about a quarter of the Greenlandic students who are in Denmark fall from the first year. So the figures show that there is a challenge at the beginning that we need to address. And I would very much like to make a preparation for the students, both in relation to the academic Danish language is sometimes difficult but also in relation to ensuring that people like get a good start on their lives here in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203343	Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203344	Thank you. Should the language then be in Greenland or in Greenland? I don't know, 'cause I'm not that good with those precouples. Another question concerns the SU, because I was able to read yesterday in the government's new 2025 plan that it is imagined that there will be a change in the SU. In fact, I would like to hear this out of ignorance: how will it affect Greenlandic students? In other words, if you imagine that the Danish students will have significantly less in the SU, which has been proposed in the last SU project, what will it have to do with the consequences for Greenlandic students?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203420	My assumption is that it will hit socially wrong, as it will probably also do in Denmark. I think it is important to stress that Greenland basically needs more well-educated people to come back, that is to say, who have read here in Denmark and choose to return to Greenland. So for Greenland it is absolutely crucial to ensure that some more people get an education. For many, this is the family's first student, that is to say, to be a first - time scholar in his family. We do not have a long educational tradition, so I think that special consideration needs to be given to Greenlandic students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203459	Then it's mr. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203501	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a very good cooperation, which I think we have ■ Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and myself both here in the Folketing, but also in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where we are part of the delegation from the Folketing. I have to say that as a defence rapporteur I look very much forward to seeing the action that comes from IA to August. After all, there is no doubt that there are really major challenges, not least because of climate change in the Arctic, especially in relation to the emergency response and the challenges facing us. At the same time, there is one thing that I think is extremely important, and that is, of course, to tackle these challenges with the rescue team, while avoiding an arms race in the Arctic. After all, the rapporteur and I had the pleasure of participating in the delegation we had with the foreign policy mention to Norway and Russia, where we have just been working on this problem. So how does IA think that you can find a balance between solving the challenges and avoiding an arms race in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203614	It is interesting to see in the Greenlandic media today, but also in CBS that the Americans have chosen to invest 40 million. dollars in the upgrade of the missile radar at Thule Air Base. So there is no doubt that the American base, which is in Greenland, has a significance in relation to everything that happens elsewhere. In this way, you can help detect some things or react more quickly. In Greenland we haven't had a war, you might say. We have no tradition of war, and it can therefore be said that we need to be aware that when these climate changes happen and we are greatly affected by them, and when the temperature rises at twice as high speed as in the rest of the world, there are some areas in Greenland that are freed and that make there some new challenges, but also some new opportunities, you might say, for Greenland. So with regard to defence, there are some tasks that are new and that need to be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203720	Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203721	Thank you. I look forward to discussing it much more. In other words, it is no secret that Greenland is making the kingdom community much larger, and I also think it can be said that the kingdom community is becoming significantly more interesting, for example in a NATO context, because of Greenland's participation. There is no doubt that the Americans would have problems if they did not have the American base on Thule, and that is actually quite interesting in relation to the arguments about armaments and how many percent of your gross domestic product needs to be used. So I look forward to the discussion we are going to have in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203801	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203803	Thank you very much. It goes without saying that when Greenland is so big, there is a huge area to defend, and therefore it requires that you think creatively, and that you prioritise where it is, you put your strength in defence. That is where we think it makes great sense to involve Greenlanders. They know the language, they know the area and they know nature, and it is also a huge advantage for the defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203825	The last brief remark is to Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203828	First of all, thank you for your cooperation. In SF we see Inuit Ataqatigiit and Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen personally as strong representatives of a modern Greenland. Part of the rapporteur's speech was to comment on business policy, and I have two questions in this regard. The first is: when you are in a situation where about half of the Greenlandic population has an education in addition to primary school, how do you intend to tackle the challenge of having more people trained, not only on the basis of a social policy and an educational policy agenda, but also, to a large extent, on the basis of business policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203904	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531203905	Thank you very much. I think this is a very relevant issue and I think it is a very constructive approach to it. As the rapporteur mentions, I also see myself as a representative of a modern Greenland and have a lot of visions in relation to how Greenland should develop in my view. That's about 35%. out of the Greenlandic population who have an education after primary school, and therefore education and vocational development are, in my view, absolutely crucial, and the two things are also very much connected. That's why we talk so much about growth. Because we need to create some jobs, and we also need to ensure that there is growth for welfare in Greenland, and we need to ensure that what we have to say is not just the public sector that solves the tasks, but that the private sector also goes in and solves some of the tasks. In relation to education, languages are often discussed as one of the challenges there are, and it is of course important that you start in primary school and ensure a much stronger primary school. That is where I think we should take action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531204006	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531204007	Thank you. The second question, which relates to both, both to the educational challenge and to the business challenge, is: How does Inuit Ataqatigii view the possibilities of ensuring more stable Internet connections across the coast?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531204022	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531204023	I know that this is something that both the Naala Suisut and the Greenlandic people are very concerned about. After all, we have a telecommunications company, TELEPOST, which is fulfilling that task today, and I also know that the cable is being expanded, so there are some options. However, in the Arctic parliamentarians' committee, where I represent the entire Parliament, we are also working to ensure how we can help to push on with individual governments, including at home in Greenland, in terms of ensuring a digital infrastructure. Because it is absolutely fundamental to a modern society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531204056	We thank Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and move on to Mrs Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531204103	Thank you very much. The status of the parliamentary year that has passed is an important time when we focus on the issues we consider important. Have we achieved the improvements we have promised? And has action been taken behind the many good words that have been spoken? First of all, I would like to thank all my fellow Members here in the Danish Parliament for the year that is coming to an end and for their good cooperation. The other day we had a debate about the Kingdom community in this Chamber. It was the longest of its kind. During the debate we heard several parties talking about love and respect for Greenland. I am pleased that the Prime Minister and the parties in the Folketing consider Greenland important. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister has secured a solid section on the government community. Against this background, I have the expectation that there will be significant improvements in Danish responsibilities in Greenland. It can be seen that the vast majority of Greenlanders who have settled in Denmark have a good life and actively contribute to Danish society. We also have many people staying in Denmark because they are in education or are in hospital. It is a joint effort which makes us stronger together at intellectual and health level. We also have a large Greenlandic community in Denmark, which considers the church to be an important church, which must also take into account the special Greenlandic culture, identity and language of Greenland; a church of the people to serve both the socially strong and the socially weak citizen with a need for soul grief. The church minister has promised improvements with the establishment of a Greenlandic church council in Denmark and the appointment of a Greenlandic priest to service the approx. 18,000 Greenlanders in Denmark, who today are only served by one Greenlandic priest. The Danish Parliament has set aside 46.4 million. kr. over the next four years to combat the social vulnerability of the Greenlanders. These funds are of great importance to the socially vulnerable in their everyday lives, including those of Greenland. The Greenlandic Houses in Denmark have a great deal of knowledge and experience in working with socially vulnerable Greenlanders. From this point of view, I would recommend that the Greenland Houses should be consulted prior to future wage-pool negotiations and, above all, should be consulted on their proposals for concrete initiatives. I am sure that this will ensure better action for socially vulnerable Greenlanders in Denmark. Thank you to the parties that have supported up to the rate pool, since the Greenlandic mandates were not invited to the settlement. The Kingdom community is in focus. The Taksøe report and the Ministry of Defence's Arctic report have pointed to areas where Denmark has great potential. All the countries of the world, and not least the European Union, have now drawn up their own Arctic policy. They all point out that they want to be part of the future development that is taking place in the Arctic region. There are many potential partners. It is good to find new forms of cooperation and new areas where we can mutually strengthen each other. The country's focus on the Arctic is based on three important focus areas: climate change, new shipping routes and minerals. These are all three issues which today form a large part of Greenland's present and, above all, the future. The ice is melting. It is a reality, and we have seen a strong increase in stakeholders in the Arctic area, an international awareness that Greenland and Denmark have each noticed; an awareness that we can benefit from together in terms of exploitation and development for the benefit of our economies and our international relations. These potentials have common areas of action... we could be of common benefit. An upgrade of charts of Greenland waters should ensure safer navigation in Greenland for the population and for tourists. It is an expression of knowledge sharing and joint research, cooperation in the business field and a joint solution of the defence's future tasks in Greenland. This will, in particular, indicate that cooperation in the Kingdom community is working. In September it will be 4 years since the Reichsaudit made the spectacular criticism of the preparedness in Greenland. In Greenland we are still waiting for concrete improvements. The charts are late. The defence has stated that there is no means of dealing with the preparedness for a proposed mining project and that therefore the mine itself must finance the preparedness. It is one of many issues that causes us to react. Here again, I would like to point out how important it is for us to ensure preparedness in Greenland. If Denmark is to act as an Arctic state or great power mentioned by Taksøe, it requires a good relationship with the Arctic part of the Commonwealth. It takes a special effort to promote the responsibilities that are one hundred percent Danish responsibility. And the Prime Minister said in his statement that we must have great ambitions and that this can be done if we want to. Action is necessary if we are to ensure a profit for the population. It is a statement that gives rise to optimism and hope for improvement. I have looked forward to making my contribution to possible improvements in the preparatory work of the financial legislation which runs through the summer. I would like to sign with the then Finance Minister, who invited the North Atlantic mandates to set meetings in the last budget debate. It has contributed to a good dialogue on possible improvements and future priorities. It's a good custom. Greenland is for Denmark both a domestic and a foreign matter. The 32 matters which are currently subject to Danish jurisdiction constantly require the constant attention of the Danish Parliament. It is a hundred per cent Danish responsibility to ensure that conditions fit the needs of today and of the future, and not least that conditions are worthy of the kingdom community. Legal certainty is not as strong in the whole Kingdom community. It lags behind in Greenland. That's not good enough. It is one hundred percent a Danish responsibility that urgently needs improvement. I lack a political will in this Chamber to give priority to the Greenlandic judiciary. It can and must be done better. I have great hopes for the North Atlantic Office that the Ministry of Justice has established. I look forward to close cooperation to ensure that we all feel the ownership of the improvements that may now come in the near future. The Community's foreign policy strategy for the Arctic must be refined in a closer cooperation between Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands. I think it is important that the whole Kingdom community is united in a joint effort and a common writing of the strategy. It is important that the strategy is the common strategy of the Kingdom Community and not just Denmark's strategy. The current Arctic strategy from 2011, which expires in 2020, has received much criticism from Greenland. Greenland has not felt heard. In Greenland it has been interpreted as if we have not shared the objectives. Moreover, the implementation process has not always been quite concrete. It is important that we stand together on a common strategy. We are part of the world for good and evil. Neither large nor small nations can themselves. We all need international partners. The national community is today the third largest NATO country in terms of area. It is especially because of Greenland. Greenland is very important for Denmark in relation to foreign and defence policy. Denmark has its allies to cooperate with. In the autumn, a new defence settlement will be negotiated. I would strongly recommend the Prime Minister to ensure that the North Atlantic and Greenlandic mandates are invited to the negotiations on the areas relating to Greenland and the Arctic. It is important that the whole Kingdom community should feel the co-owning of the common defence policy. If the Kingdom Community can stand together, we stand stronger on the world stage as the Prime Minister says: strong. The legal certainty of Greenland's citizens in Greenland is not strong. We do not feel included in the list of priorities in those areas where we can make a positive difference for the individual citizen. Let us stand together to find the good solutions for the benefit of all citizens of the Kingdom community. Love and respect for Greenland then together we become strong. Qujanaq.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205110	Thank you. There are some brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205115	Thank you for that and also thank you for your speech to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. After all, I have followed the negotiations on the service agreement in Thule very closely, also because the Greenland Committee regularly discusses it and looks with great concern at developments. I feel that it is hanging in a very, very thin thread, and I would like to hear Mrs Aleqa Hammond's opinion on where this will end and what the consequences will be if we fail to reach a service agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205157	Thank you for the question. It is a very important subject which has stirred up relations between Denmark and Greenland. I certainly think that it is the whole Kingdom community that is losing a very large area to the Americans by losing the service contract. At the same time, I believe that once it has come into American hands, it will be very difficult for the whole kingdom to get it back. I also firmly believe that the service contract in the Thule area does not only generate lost revenue in the area of taxation in Greenland. But it is the entire business sector that is going to lose revenue and lose a lot of money, and the experience and investments they have had are going to be lost. I also certainly believe that the kingdom should be much stronger in such a situation and handle it much better than we do today, when Greenland already has so little benefit from the Americans' presence in Greenland. It is much worse today than it has done in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205310	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205311	I fully agree with that, and at some point we must also ask what the Americans are going to do in Thule if they do not want to contribute a tiny bit to the local community. It is not just to service their military that we must have the base there. Another issue is a completely new one, which has emerged in the Greenlandic newspapers and has not yet reached the Danish ones, namely the task of sailing goods from Denmark to Nuuk and to Thule. The Royal Arctic Line has had the deal, but they no longer have. Now the Americans have given it to an American company that even gets the double price for it. What is Mrs Aleqa Hammond's opinion on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205355	I think that losing the service contract for Thule in itself was a disaster, but further losing sailing and servicing from the Royal Arctic Line on Pituffik is even worse. The presence of the Americans in Greenland in some ways is not for the benefit of the Greenlandic population, to put it bluntly. On the contrary. We are left with the remains of the Americans at at least 30 locations in Greenland, all waiting for cleanup. So I certainly believe that the Kingdom Community has a major task in ensuring that this is done something about.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205435	Then it's mr. Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205437	Thank you very much. First of all, thank you to Mrs Aleqa Hammond for the very, very good speech. I am pleased that the rapporteur mentions the efforts of the people's church for the many Greenlanders who live in Denmark, because I see this as an important part of the Commonwealth. And I am pleased that the rapporteur mentions cooperation on defence in the Arctic, because it is also an important part of the Commonwealth. And I am pleased that the rapporteur mentions cooperation across Denmark and Greenland on charts, on sailing, on tourism and the business area, because it is all important parts of the kingdom community. I say this because the Kingdom community as a whole is incredibly important, both for Greenland and for Denmark. That brings me to my question: what can the rapporteur say about what we can do to strengthen relations between Greenland and Denmark for young people, so that we can maintain a strong Kingdom community in favour of both Greenland and Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205540	Regardless of the desire of the Greenlandic people for independence, I certainly believe that it is extremely important that we keep a very good tone between all parts of the realm until otherwise determined. I certainly believe that as long as we have contacts with each other, we must each other the best. And I also believe that both parties have an interest in ensuring that the 32 areas under Danish jurisdiction work well, are up to date and meet today's needs in Greenland. But very often I also see that one has such a little anxiety about each other's business areas, which I think may be a little sin. For as long as we belong together, we have an attitude towards each other and how we resolve things in each of our governments or parliaments and in relation to our peoples. I also believe that the Kingdom community will be better served by putting more words on matters relating to our community until otherwise decided.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205647	Marcus Knuth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205648	Thank you. I am pleased to hear the rapporteur's point of view as regards the fact that we are going to be the best for each other as long as we are in a common kingdom, which I hope is for a very long time. The rapporteur may add a few words to what we can do to strengthen the knowledge and understanding of the Danish language by young Greenlanders. If you want to go further in high school, if you want to go further in Denmark, if you want to go to the University of Copenhagen, then the Danish language is very, very important. And there I have a great deal of respect for the desire to strengthen the Greenlandic language, but I think that you can strengthen knowledge of both the Greenlandic language and the Danish language at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205731	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205732	In general, I think that we should be good at all languages where we can have the opportunity to learn. The only official language in Greenland is Greenlandic after the introduction of self-government. We learn Danish because we belong to the Danish kingdom, and it is language no. 2. Language No 3 is English. All three languages are compulsory subjects in schools. And I also think that we should generally be good at learning languages other than just our own language at home for our own good, including educational.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205808	Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205809	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. The rapporteur mentions that there are some problem areas around Greenlanders in Denmark. I would like to know whether the rapporteur will unfold it a little and perhaps say something about what the rapporteur thinks should be done to make it better to be Greenlander in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205833	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205836	Thank you for the question. Last year and last year, two very important reports were produced, one from the SFI and the other from the Institute for Human Rights. Both reports point to the fact that a large part of the Greenlandic population living in Denmark is discriminated against by the Danish system when they contact the municipal offices and the like. We don't think that's good enough. I don't think the Danes think that's good enough either. I also believe that when we look at the two reports, there are such very significant indications as to what improvements we can make, both in the municipal area but also in the field of case handling. I also believe that it is very often the result of prejudices about each other. I think we have many areas that we can be better at dealing with in order to understand each other's situations. I would certainly like to refer to the two reports and I know that the questioner is also aware of them. There are some very concrete proposals in them which are worth working on in this House.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205945	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531205947	Thank you for your answer. Another thing I would like to ask the rapporteur to deal with is how to work more with the tourism industry in Greenland. What is the rapporteur's position on how it can develop and does the rapporteur think it should develop into more than it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210011	Greenland certainly has a very great potential for the development of tourism and ecotourism and tourism in the field of nature lovers. Greenland is one of the few areas that are not flooded by tourists, and there are very large areas that Greenland can develop exclusively for pure tourist areas. Transport and infrastructure are keywords as well as facilities to receive tourists. Experience and residence initiatives are very much needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210048	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210049	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. I note that the rapporteur mentions the need for proper tone. We know that a few years ago there was a somewhat inappropriate statement about the relationship between Greenland and Denmark and what Greenland has got out of Denmark, from the rapporteur himself. I think it is important to emphasise that, as politicians, we are, of course, role models in talking to each other properly, and unfortunately we see that there is an increasing division, I would say, in many areas. At least that's what I hear in Greenland and look at the social media where it's a lot going to be a them and us-thinking instead of a us-thinking. I would like to hear what the rapporteur thinks about that statement. Is this a statement that the rapporteur regrets, because we, as politicians, are role models in relation to a proper tone?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210145	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210146	I have been quoted many times as having said some things that have been taken out of context, and therefore I would also like to refer to why I have said things as I have done. I also think in many ways that I am regarded as a politician who says things straight out, and I think that is quite all right; there should be room for that. I also think that my comments about an independent Greenland have in many ways led people to believe that it is because I have something against Denmark and that I have a tough tone because I want to show this. It has nothing to do with it. I think it is extremely important to look at relations between Denmark and Greenland at government level, but also at interparliamentary level, and see what we agree with each other about. We agree with each other on the self-government law, and I also think it is extremely important that we follow it all the way through to the letter, because otherwise there will be unnecessary friction between Greenland and Denmark, which we can all live without.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210247	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210252	Thank you very much. I see it as a softening of previous statements. In any case, it can be said that in Greenland we need everyone. We're 56,000 people. In addition, I would like to say that I agree with the rapporteur on justice. There is a need to ensure a boost in the area of justice, and I think it would be interesting to hear whether the rapporteur will tell us what she sees need to be lifted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210314	I mean, I don't see it as a softening of previous statements. I stand by the positions that I have always had, and that is also very clear. As far as justice is concerned, I have also pointed out in my rapporteur's speech that not all parts of the Kingdom community have the same legal certainty. Legal certainty in Greenland is lagging behind. The last negotiations between the Danish Government and Greenland we had were back in 2007, when we made the agreement with the then Conservative Minister of Justice. Since then, there has been little progress.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210352	Thank you for that and thank you to Mrs Aleqa Hammond. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531210405	Thank you, sir. President. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for his speech this morning. I will use my speaking time in this evening's discussions on the sustainable use of marine resources, which is one of the UN's global development goals, as well as the ambition to achieve a self-sustaining Faroese economy, so that we can manage for the money we earn ourselves, as the Prime Minister put it this morning. The welfare of Arctic and subarctic areas such as Greenland and the Faroe Islands is very much linked to what the sea brings us. Growth on land is limited, but the sea is rich in resources and it has always been the basis of our existence. The wealth of the sea not only has historical significance, but it is the foundation of our future welfare. That is why we must manage marine resources sustainably. Sustainable management of the sea is not only of great importance to us who live by defying the whims of the sea and selling the catch we can now get; it is also of great importance to the billions of people around the world for whom fish and marine resources are the most important source of protein. The incident at Langelinie yesterday unfortunately exhibits the fact that many in the modern urban world have little or no understanding of the right to sustainable exploitation of marine resources. Fortunately, the red paint on the little mermaid could be washed off relatively easily. On the other hand, the consequences of the deep gap of understanding between the culture of prisoners in the north and the urban café latte environments on the continent cannot be felt. In our part of the world, we know where dinner comes from and that we live by a reproducing nature. And we continually adapt our methods and behaviour to ensure sustainability and humane fishing methods. Unfortunately, however, in many large cities the understanding has been lost that animals must be both caught and slaughtered before they can be eaten. Here one would prefer to see the Arctic transformed into a reserve where there is no room for those people who want a life of well-being and in harmony with nature. When Brigitte Bardot and environmental activists launched their seal campaign in the early seventies, they started an avalanche of actions, all based on emotions and moral arguments. The consequences of the campaigns and the ban have been devastating for many communities in the north and especially for the prisoner communities in Greenland and Canada, because unfortunately environmental activists managed to get legislators in the EU and the United States on board, so that the import of seal products was banned for moral reasons to urban citizens. The ban has ruined all activities relating to the sustainable capture of mammals, led to a marked distortion of the ecological balance in the sea and costs the Arctic nations dearly. But it has undoubtedly given some extra voices in the large cities of the continent. Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark have a duty to fight for the rights of the Arctic people to be at the top of the list when matters in the Arctic are to be discussed. This is true in the Arctic Council, it is true in the Folketing, it is true in the European Union, it is true in the United Nations, and it is true in civil society. It is important that the Arctic Council does not develop into a Trojan horse. Countries or organisations wishing to participate in the Arctic Council should therefore be required to accept the right of the Arctic nations to make sustainable use of marine resources, to open their markets to products from sustainable catches and to undertake to minimise pollution of the sea. Pollution, which is largely discharged from industrialised countries, is by far the greatest threat to marine life and its value as food for mankind. And the will to do something about it has been small. May I quote here the leader in the last issue of The Economist: The sea supplies humanity, and humanity treats it with contempt. These demands are consistent with the 14th UN's global objective of sustainable global development, which is precisely about preserving and ensuring the sustainable use of the world's seas and their resources. I am therefore convinced that all the Nordic countries are prepared to join forces in this context. The vast majority of Faroese exports are based precisely on sustainable exploitation of marine resources. It is both about catching on the high seas and about farming on the near shores. Economic development has been very positive in recent years. Exports grew to DKK 8 billion last year, and development is largely driven by the growth of pelagic fishing and fish farming. On Monday afternoon the Council took the proposal for a long-awaited fisheries reform in the Faroe Islands for a first reading. For us, it is about the main industry and therefore also about the most important part of the basis for our welfare. I am not going to go into any details here, but simply emphasise that both courage and knuckle fat are needed to implement a balanced proposal that takes into account both biological, economic and social sustainability, because there are many interests at stake. Although climate change has led to increasing storms in winter, tourism is also marching forward. But growing tourism also demands that we take care of the sensitive nature we have to offer. For although the Faroe Islands extend over 170,000 square kilometers, our total land area above sea level is only 1,399 square kilometers large. The economic growth of the Faroe Islands has been 7.8% in the last two years, and the national accounts last year showed a profit • for the first time since 2008. Unemployment is low and growth can also be measured in the population. We have recently reached 50,000 people for the first time in history. It puts pressure on public services and increased demand for investment, for example in housing, health and schools. However, investment is also being made in a new marine survey ship and in a comprehensive public sector digitalisation project. The portfolio of investments should together give us both a higher level of welfare, better conditions for the development of the maritime sector and conditions for the efficient operation of the public sector. Globally, the Faroe Islands are relatively high in terms of gross domestic product per year. citizen. There has been a significant increase in GDP between 1998 and 2013, and we have overtaken countries such as the United States, Japan and Germany. In recent years we have seen further growth and are now at the same level as Denmark and Iceland. The frozen block grant from Denmark of DKK 642 million means less and less for the Faroese economy. Twenty years ago, the block subsidy was 20%. of total public revenue in the Faroe Islands. In 2016, it had fallen to 8%. of total government revenue and represented only 3.5 percent of Faroese gross domestic product. If the GDP of the Faroe Islands continues to increase with the same average growth rate as it has over the past 18 years, then the block grant will only be 2%. of the GDP of the Faroe Islands in the year 2025. The Faroese are generally optimistic about taking another tour to reach a self-sustaining Faroese economy without subsidies from Denmark in the near future. A new Gallup study shows that a good majority supports a goal that the Faroe Islands should have a self-supporting and subsidy-free economy over the next 12 years. We can go a long way if we choose to reduce block support by 50 million per year up to 2025, because then block support will be less than 1%. of the Faroese GDP. However, economic autonomy requires not only the phasing-out of block subsidies and funding for not yet recovered matters, but also strong political priorities and efforts for further growth in the exporting industry, so that we can maintain a long-lasting standard of living that is competitive with neighbouring countries. If we have the right conditions, phasing out the block subsidy can also help to improve our competitiveness in relation to the rest of the world, because financial support no longer artificially sustains wage levels in relation to production. Increasing competitiveness also provides increased export opportunities, which will benefit the whole of society. I agree with the Prime Minister that it is healthy to stand on your own feet and live for the money you earn yourself. And that is why I advocate that the Faroe Islands maintain the course towards a self-sustaining economy - and preferably in a constructive collaboration with Denmark. I also believe that along the way we will find out how our cooperation model in other contexts can be combined in the future. The aim of a self-sustaining economy also requires a great deal of freedom of movement for foreign and trade policy that we do not have today. Maybe the model with a Free Association should be back on the table.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211446	It was almost true over time, thank you. The first brief remark is from Mrs Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211452	Thank you for that, and thank you to the rapporteur for always committed speech from the platform. I am very pleased to hear that it is certainly not the rapporteur who has been painting on the little mermaid. The rapporteur mentions this with the block subsidy and that it is probably not long before the Faroe Islands can manage without block subsidies from Denmark. I would like to know whether the rapporteur has any idea when it will be predicted. I would also like to know whether, in the view of the rapporteur, it will have any impact on whether to seek to become independent and therefore withdraw from the Community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211540	As I said in the speech, continuing development with GDP growth, as it has been on average over the last 18 years, will mean that our dependence on block support will be significantly reduced over the next seven years. If, on top of that, we also actively choose to reduce block support in portions year by year, it will of course be even smaller than that. And that is what there is a will for in the Faroese people and which I think is the right thing to do. Because I think the most worthy thing for a people is that you are able to support your own citizens yourself, and I think we should do that. I would also say that when you are not dependent on transfers from other countries, it is a question of whether there is any reason to pledge your own freedom to act within the international community. But that does not mean that I could not be open to the fact that we have a model of cooperation with Denmark. It should just be something on which we agree as two equal partners who can now agree on cooperation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211656	Mrs. Karin Gaardsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211657	I thought that was the answer I would receive from the rapporteur. Another thing, of course, is that we too are very happy that things are going fantasticly well for the Faroe Islands financially. It's fish and fish and fish, and then it's tourism. Can the rapporteur say whether there are any other things on the way to providing income in the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211726	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211727	The issue of fish is relative, because one can say that one can export it as a commodity, but one can also choose to process it further so that one can export it as a food product that has a higher value than when one simply exports it as a commodity. I believe that the maritime sector will always be the central nerve of the Faroese economy, because we are in the middle of a butter hole in the sea, both in terms of wild fish and in terms of opportunities for farming. We have a great skill in the maritime industries, so it could easily be in the service industries that are linked to the maritime industry, preferably with people who are trained.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211810	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211812	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Magni Arge, also for the collaboration in the daily. Now Mr. Magni Arge, that the most important issue is the resources of the sea, and I would probably say that too if I were a cousin. I'd like to hear what, sir. Magni Arge believes that the strong concentration of ownership of the fishing fleet in the Faroe Islands means development. I have seen, when we have been visiting up there, that it is actually quite few people who have become very, very rich by having the whole fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211847	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211849	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Christian Juhl also thanks the rest of the Danish Parliament for the good cooperation we have had among colleagues in the Danish Parliament over the past year. You use what you call the Gini coefficient, and I can say that the Faroe Islands probably have the most equal distribution of the values of all the Nordic communities. But at the same time I would also like to say that over the last five years the difference has actually increased more in the Faroe Islands than it is elsewhere. This is probably due to the fact that we have had a great deal of progress, among other things. in pelagic fisheries, and in the case of sales in fish farming, and it is concentrated in relatively few hands. Then you might ask: is it now sensible for us to organise production effectively? Yes, I believe it is, but it should also be accompanied by a distribution policy that will enable us to have a sensible distribution of values in society as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211954	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531211955	So I almost have to ask: how should such a distribution take place? Because there are some who have the right to fish at the moment, I understand. How can it be redistributed? That is a rather interesting question, I think, also for Denmark and other countries which tend towards greater inequality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212016	In fact, that is exactly what is being discussed in the proposal for a fisheries reform, which is currently in the Latting and which is due to enter into force on 1 January 2018. Because all fishing rights were withdrawn 10 years ago to introduce a new way of distributing them. And that means that those who receive fishing rights also have to pay a tax to the state or that they have to offer part of what is being offered on the free market. In this way, income is also included in the common fund so that you can spend part of this money for common good for the whole of society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212057	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212058	Thank you. And thank you for the rapporteur's speech, which you can say almost went into fish, at least there was a lot about fish, fish and fish and so little about the sustainable use of marine resources, and of course I am very pleased with that, in that I am the rapporteur for the environment and food. But I am also a defence rapporteur, and I certainly do not think I heard a single word from Mr. Magni Arge on defense despite that, sir. Magni Arge, I know, is a very warm advocate of independence in the Faroe Islands. - Sir... Magni Arge maybe just involve the rest of us a little in those thoughts, sir. Magni Arge is making his way around the sovereignty enforcement of the Faroe Islands and future defenses when Mr. Magni Arge's hottest dreams of Faroese independence once come true?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212147	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212148	I would like to acknowledge that the Danish military has been maintaining sovereignty over the Faroes for many years, but that does not mean that it is the same as that Denmark has been defending the Faroe Islands and has been able to defend the Faroe Islands in the event of military aggression. We have experienced this during World War I, we have seen it during World War II, and at that time it was the British who came to the rescue to defend the Faroe Islands, and ever since then the Faroe Islands have been a British and NATO territory in defence contexts, one can say, and I see no reason why we should not be able to continue with it in the same way, as for example. Iceland has been able to do so in the event that it was not in cooperation with Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212232	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212233	Thank you for your answer. After all, it is not the British membership of NATO that makes the Faroe Islands a member of NATO today, it is the Danish membership of NATO. So what the rapporteur says is that we will put our trust in NATO in the future in the event of independence and perhaps not in close cooperation with Russia, which we otherwise have with regard to fish trade?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212301	I think it is important to be able to cooperate with as many people as possible. I believe that good cooperation across the world is important. I would like to cooperate with Russia in the area of trade policy, but I think that when it comes to defence, we have a natural interest in cooperating with the other Nordic countries, and we are so close to the UK that it would be quite wrong if we did not take note of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212330	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212333	Recently, the rapporteur initiated a very important consultation here at Christiansborg on the right to exploit marine resources on a sustainable basis. In this context, there were many different speakers who paid particular attention to the whole of the North Atlantic as a general area that needs to be heard about. Understanding sustainability and understanding and definition are not necessarily the same as we think in the North Atlantic in relation to the rest of the world. And we face great challenges in talking about the same things in terms of sustainability. What does the rapporteur see as one of the most important issues to focus on at political level in order to achieve a common understanding on sustainability in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212429	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212431	As I said in my speech, I think it is extremely important that we focus on the countries of the Arctic and their right to exploit the resources of the sea sustainably. It must be confirmed one hundred per cent, because that is the reason for the welfare and survival that we must have in the North Atlantic. But there was also a question from the questioner about a definition of what sustainability really is. Sustainability in this context is about our being careful and thinking about how much we can take out of fish stocks and out of whales or seal populations, so that they are still reproducible at a reasonable level. That's what sustainability is all about in my world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212533	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212534	Over the years, we have seen a growing number of organisations that are interested in our way of using the resources of the sea. There are the Americans' Marine Mammal Protection Act, but also the EU's seal ban despite the inuit exemption, and after all they have hit both the Faroe Islands' economy, but also Greenland's economy in many ways, precisely because there is not the same understanding on the question of definition. What does the rapporteur think we can do on the part of the Folketing to ensure a better understanding of all areas?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212613	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212614	I believe that the Folketing and the government should go together with the Faroe Islands and Greenland and set as an absolute requirement, for example. the Arctic Council, that there are new members who wish to join the Arctic Council, either as observers or as direct members, they must recognise the Arctic people's right to sustainable exploitation of marine resources and they must open their markets to the products that can be gained from the sustainable exploitation of the sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212644	The last brief remark I have made is from Mr Seligman. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212647	I'd like to thank you, sir. Magni Arge for an absolutely excellent speech to which I have listened with great pleasure. It is always a joy to listen to such a speech. I noticed various things, and I especially noticed one thing, and that is of course the future of the Faroe Islands. I know, sir. Magni Arge is in favour of the independence of the Faroe Islands, and I have great respect for the desire for independence and the fact that you are working towards it. But isn't the truth that the Kingdom and Denmark are the best guarantor of the safety of the Faroese people? There's a lot of storms in the world. There are many storms in the Atlantic Ocean. There are also economic storms, and right now the Faroese are doing well. Fishing is going well, but it is not certain that it will always be that way. Then Mr. Magni Arge does not reconsider his enthusiasm about independence and admit that the kingdom community actually guarantees the welfare and security of the forefathers in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212805	Sir. Magni Arge, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212806	I am grateful for the care of the questioner for the Faroese well-being and for my well-being. I think it is worthwhile and I hope that it can also be translated into a good and rewarding cooperation once we have reached where I want us to stand as an independent country which is part of a cooperation with Denmark, so that we can jointly ride off all the storms that we might come close to. I would also like to point out that when Denmark has chosen to be part of the European Union and actually prioritises the European Union more than you give priority to the national community, it is not always a guarantee of Faroese interests when there are contradictions between the interests of the European Union and the Faroe Islands, because then Denmark gets caught between the two communities in which you are involved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212902	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212903	I don't think we can disagree on that at all. Denmark's EU membership and the Faroe Islands' independence in this area are a challenge. I recently saw an excellent documentary on fishing and the impact of whaling on the mercury content of the Faroese. We know, of course, that in the years to come things will probably get worse. In other words, fisheries will actually suffer from the pollution that is happening. Is it not therefore necessary for Denmark to guarantee the well-being and financial security of the Faroe Islands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531212950	As I think I have explained in my speech, I do not think that Denmark is able to ensure the economic well-being of the Faroe Islands, because the 642 million. kr. In fact, only 8% is accounted for. of our public spending today, and over the next few years it will fall to 6.5 per cent. So much more is needed to ensure Faroese welfare. The only person who really has an interest in it and will really fight for it is the Faroese people, and it is about us having access to all the opportunities that are available to create our own welfare. That's the safest card we have in our hands.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531213033	Thank you, sir. Magni Arge. There are no further brief comments, and we shall move on to Mr Beazley's report. Sjúrður Skaale.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531213043	Thank you. Now we had a very big debate about the Kingdom community a few days ago, so I will do this very much overall. I know that the platform is for spoken words and not for gimmicks and dog tricks, but I would still like to ask the President if it is okay for me to put a little statue next to the water glass while I speak. Is that okay? First Vice-President Yes, if it is proper). It's very decent. Well, it's a naked woman, so I don't know quite, but I think it's okay. Thank you. I do, because another statue of the Little Mermaid was painted red yesterday in protest against the grin killings of the Faroe Islands. It wasn't my fault, and it wasn't the Faroe Islands' fault, but I'm sorry. I think it must be very annoying for many people in this Chamber with the Faroese laughing killing, because a few years ago all members of parliament received hundreds of bloody e-mails from Sea Shepherd fantasists who protested against the grin killing. And a few summers ago the Danish police had to spend a lot of money, a lot of resources to keep the Sea Shepherd people in their ears who almost occupied the Faroe Islands. Yesterday it was a red mermaid, and it doesn't stop with it. However, as far as I am concerned, I would like to say that this is also of interest to the Faroe Islands. This means that questions are being asked, and it gives me an opportunity to explain and give people a knowledge that I clearly feel they want to have and a knowledge that they do not get at school, at least not compulsory. The material that Danish students and teachers have about the Faroe Islands is on a theme page under the Danish learning portal www.emu.dk. It says a little "thank you for that." It says, among other things, that the population in the Faroe Islands is steadily declining due to emigration, and that was correct some years ago, but it has been wrong for many years. It also says that when a bunch of whales arrive against the Faroe Islands, they are invited to a laughing-kill party, and that sounds very exotic, very barbaric, very ethnic, very original and as something exciting, but it is also wrong, because there is no laughing-kill party. It also says that live sheep are dragged into the shops in the Faroe Islands, where they are then shot and slaughtered in full transparency, and one sees that the blood sprays out on the goods in the store, that a mother who buys milk for her children goes home with blood-splashed dress • very barbaric, very exciting, very different and very exotic, but therefore wrong. I find that regrettable, and I have said this before, and the government has also said before that it admits that there should be learning about the Faroe Islands in school, but not so much is happening. So now I will allow myself to give a little lesson when I have so many Danes who listen. I will use yesterday's episode, the red mermaid on Langelinie, to tell you that there is also a statue of a mermaid in the Faroe Islands. It's called the Seal Woman, and it's down by the sea in a village on Kalsoy called Mikladalur. And there it is, because it is at the village of Mikladalur that seals of female come in every midsummer night and take off the sealskin and party and dance all night until the next morning, when they put on the sealskin and swim out into the sea, where they stay until the next midnight. But once there was a man lying underneath this party, and while the seal women were dancing, he saw someone so adorablely beautiful that he had to have her, and he stole her skin. And when the sun rose, she searched desperately for her skin, until the man made himself known and icyly said she was going home with him. He locked the skin into a coffin and always had the key hanging in her belt, so she had no opportunity to escape. They later got married, and they had two children. But one day, when the man is fishing, he feels that he has forgotten the key, that the key is not in the belt, so he yells to his boatmates: row home, row home, for today I shall be wifeless. They row all they can towards the beach, and he runs up to his house, but it's too late. The coffin is open, the wife is gone, and the two children are playing alone on the floor. But the wife had put out the fire and removed all the objects before she left, for she loved her children, but the sea was her home, and she could not resist the longing against the sea. When she came down to the sea, it was the reverse longing that prevailed and tormented her. For when children played down by the lake the following year, a seal could sometimes be seen lying in the water crust and looking up the playful children with very longing, big eyes. Because she was so close, and she was so infinitely far away in another element, in another world. She looked at her children, they looked at her, and it must have tormented her a lot to know that they didn't know it was their mother they were looking at. History ends very dramatically with human recklessness, arrogance and killing and a curse of the seal woman who is so strong that the people of Kalsoy today are still suffering from the curse. So history is true, but it also raises some questions and gives some answers regarding other things in life. Because, for example, if we do... Imagine that the woman's seal skin wasn't locked in the coffin, but hung in the closet, would she have escaped? Or was it perhaps the awareness that she couldn't make her do it when she got the chance? Could it be that the man did the reverse of what he should have done to achieve his goal and keep his woman? I've been a lot down in Catalonia. Support for secession from Spain has grown from 10%. 50%. In just a few years. The reason is that Spain does not allow a Catalan constitution to say that the Catalan people have the right to self-determination. Catalan sealskin locked in a Spanish coffin. You can't go anywhere, says the government and the Supreme Court. But people's political desires are, of course, independent of legal provisions, and the Catalans' reaction is that if they cannot, then I think it is quite natural. Freedom is very much about knowing that you can do something other than what you do if you want something else; to feel that you are where you are, at your own request. If you don't have that feeling, you want to go somewhere else, even if it's a worse place. That is why it is in everyone's interest that the political sealskin of the Faroese nation should not be locked in a Danish coffin, which is fully accessible at the door or the population will be obsessed with the idea that the sealskin is locked in. My own party has once since its foundation in 1925 been a secession party. It was 25 years ago for a period of half an hour. The reason was that it was politically wanted and felt that there was a right to something that could not be done because of legal provisions. So the political skin was locked in a legal casket, and it all pointed to it. But fortunately the coffin was opened after the dramatic half hour. Let us learn from this and from all of Europe's experience and from the seal woman and leave the coffin open. Of course, an open coffin requires much more of us than a closed coffin. It means that every day must be an option. It requires interest and commitment and their prerequisites, which are, of course, the will of both sides. Therefore, it is not beneficial for a free relationship without closed coffins that Danish schoolchildren either do not learn about the Faroe Islands or learn that Faroe Islands are wild barbarians who kill large wild animals with large knives in both the beach and inside their supermarkets, and that yesterday's bloody Little Mermaid is actually a fine description of the Faroese mentality. Because it's wrong. I can imagine that the man from Mikladalur to keep the seal woman was more concerned about hiding the key from her than about showing her interest. On the other hand, I am sure that the Prime Minister has no desire to wear a key in his belt. I am sure the Prime Minister is the spokesman for the policy of the open chest. I am sure he knows that this policy requires knowledge and interest, and that is why 29 July has been turned into Faroese flag day. But I hope the government recognises that flaging is not enough. Now just make a little teaching about the Faroe Islands mandatory in school it will benefit everyone. The Prime Minister knows that, but in order not to forget it, I will give him this seal woman, whom I hope will be put in a visible place in your office to remind you that we must do what is required to live up to what I call the policy of the open chest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214048	Thanks for the history lesson. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Juhl, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214056	First I would like to hear: what is the night of midnight in the Faroe Islands? That could be really exciting to know. The second is that when I went to school, we had compulsory education on both Greenland and the Faroe Islands and on the other Nordic countries systematically. We should be able to flag, we should know how to live. That's why we saw these weird cousins wearing their hats and their red-black shirts. I don't know where it got off in class, but it's definitely worth a BOLO. I would like to know whether the rapporteur could imagine, if the Faroese resort to the seal skin and take a trip to the sea and swim for themselves, that a kingdom community could consist of three independent parties, which are now a little closer, but where the three parties may be self-employed or almost self-employed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214158	I can imagine. That's why the kingdom community works so well. It's very spacious. After all, the Faroe Islands have a great deal of self-determination, both domestic policy with total self-determination and foreign policy with the possibility of making agreements with other countries. For example: I think it is exemplary that the Faroe Islands are allowed to trade with Russia, even though Denmark boycotts Russia, that one is allowed to pursue one's own line and pursue one's own needs, its own interests, even when they come across Danish interests, but more formal self-determination with a more formal equality between the parties: quite clearly, quite clearly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214242	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214243	I see this as well, because I think that the debate we have about the Kingdom Community and that it should be in a tight framework is almost the same as saying that the coffin is closed. And there I think that yes, if you said that it can be done tomorrow, if they want to, it is much easier to discuss if you also said to each other: but we will continue to have close cooperation. The second is: will the rapporteur's party also work for more repatriated areas to oppose independence?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214319-2	There are very few takeovers made in Faroese political history that have not been made by my party or that my party has not been involved in. We are in favour of the Kingdom community as long as it works well. That is not our main objective. The purpose of the Social Democracy in the Faroe Islands is to create a society that is as secure for the individual as possible, where the individual is as free as possible, where the welfare of the individual is as high as possible. And if you find that solution within the Kingdom community, then we do it within the Kingdom community. On the day we believe that the Kingdom cannot give the Faroese people the opportunities, we mean something else. Then it's another option we're going for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214357	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214359	Thank you for an unusually beautiful and poetic political speech. That's probably one of the most touching things I've heard in a long time. Let me continue a little along the same lines, but not so nice. In the Faroe Islands the legend or story of the woman Beinta is very well known, i.e. the femme fatale, who married Danish priests and killed them in a row and was inspired by Jørgen-Frantz Jacobsen's formidable novel about Barbara. I hope that Beinta will not become a picture of Denmark, i.e. that the Faroese marry Denmark and kill us. But I actually understand from the rapporteur that he is in fact a defender of the Kingdom community and sees it as a guarantor of prosperity and security and, in so far as he is, a certain degree of autonomy within the framework provided by the Kingdom Community. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214507	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214509	I would say that in my party we look not at the title but at the content. So it is the case that there are some small states in Europe that have formal sovereignty such as Liechtenstein, Andorra, Luxembourg, San Marino, etc., right? And if we ignore the title and look at the content, then the Faroe Islands have greater self-determination than all those countries. So that's what we're going for. Well, we look not so much at what things are called, but at what they are. And it is of course very important for my party to have as much opportunity as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214540	Sir. Alex Ahrendtsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214542	If we stay in the picture with Beinta and imagine that the Faroese are divorced from Denmark, the Faroese will soon seek another marriage. And that marriage could be quite awful and not give freedom to the Faroe Islands. If we were to talk about independence at all, would it not be better if this were done within the framework of the Kingdom community? Is the Kingdom Community not designed to provide a framework and freedom for the Faroese people to actually fulfil their dream of self-government to a sufficient degree?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214623	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214624	As I have said before, I believe that efforts to take over more and more matters and take responsibility for our own economy are a very important part of the upbringing in Faroese society. But it can easily be done within the Kingdom community. After all, the Kingdom community has been redefined many, many times and has been expanded more and more. And as long as it's possible, it's a good community. As I have said: if it gives the individual breeding opportunities to live a life of welfare and security and with opportunities, then that is our goal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214655	Thank you, sir. Sjúrður Skaale. There are no more brief comments, and then we are done with the first round of rapporteurs. That's why it's the PM now. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531214713	Thank you for that and thank you for a day-long debate which has been peaceful and interesting. When you sit and listen, you also get some associations. Sometimes something funny is said. When Rasmus Nordqvist talked about these exams, the government has been there and has received such mediocre grades in and, for my part, I understand that I have to get back up again and send it at least my own thoughts on the run. I remember that when I graduated from high school for chemistry it wasn't a position of strength for me I had read and actually also read a lot also outside the curriculum, and then I pulled a question and thought that it was all about what I read extra, so I just started talking and thought that this is going to go really, really well. When I had spoken for 2-3 minutes, my teacher stopped me and said: what you say, Lars, is really interesting, and that's all right, but if you continue, I'm going to dump you. I thought it was really weird, and then he added: it's because it's not what you're up in at all. I thought of that when Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist awarded characters to the government, of course, also inspired by Mr. Jacob Mark, who drew my attention to the fact that the alternative suggests in general an alternative curriculum: Away with Christianity history, away with history, away with social sciences; let us have some citizenship, sustainability and recognition. Then it is clear that if you just exalt yourself to have a monopoly on the curriculum, you can dump anyone. The opposite is true: if you are the only one running for discipline, you can also win. It's easy enough to win an Olympic gold medal if you're the only one running. But I just think in a figurative sense that we have to adjust to the fact that we, Denmark, do not choose our own curriculum. We're a small open economy. We live in interaction with the rest of the world. We don't define the curriculum ourselves. What, on the other hand, defines whether we, as a nation, pass the international group examination is whether we meet the standards to be met in order to be global. After all, it is about being competitive, it is about being productive, innovative and hard-working. After all, it does not come to mind that I should be handing out grades to ourselves, and now I also have all summer to study the curriculum, but I would like to say that in the real non-Alternative world I think we should be judged on what really counts. That is why I set out four criteria for success on which the government for which I have had the privilege of being Prime Minister, both in the form that it took right after the elections and in the enlarged form from before Christmas, must be judged. It is not an alternative curriculum; it is completely objective. Firstly, it is less on public support, and yes, we now have the lowest number of people on public support for 10 years, and we have the lowest unemployment rate for 40 years except for 2 years during the overheating in the 00s. Secondly, it is better at core welfare. We have added 2.4 billion to health care. kr. Last year. We have launched cancer plan IV and we have put together 2.2 billion. kr. over the next four years to the cancer area. Together with the Danish People's Party, we have set aside 1 billion. kr. Each year for more dignified care for the elderly and an additional 2 billion. kr. Until 2020. Thirdly, the flow of refugees is under control. That's it. The number of asylum seekers in the first quarter of 2017 was the lowest since the third quarter of 2008. We have closed the Balkan route through a strengthened effort in the European Union, and at home we have tightened up a number of laps in contrast to what was done during the last parliamentary term, when it was relaxed and it has worked. This means, of course, that when we spend less money on asylum centres, we get more money to help refugees in the neighbourhood and also more money for welfare at home: care for the elderly, schools, nurseries and other core welfare. The fourth is private jobs. While we have been sitting here and having debated, new national accounts figures have been published, showing that private employment has increased by 91,000 people from the second quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of 2017. Ninety-one thousand. This means, unfortunately, that the proposal for adoption by the Danish People's Party and the Danish People's Party, which represents a majority here in the Danish Parliament, contains the fact error I am saying here to preempt Detector that the figure that stands is wrong, because it says that Denmark has got about 80 000 more private jobs. So it is now obsolete, it is wrong, it does not pass the detector test, and I am not sorry, because the right number is 91,000. That is why I have to repeat that Denmark is strong. That is the way things are going to go on, because day by day we have to pass our group exam, not from some alternative curriculum, but from the real world, where the truth is that if you stand still when others run faster, you fall behind. This is also the reason why the government presented the plan yesterday... Growth and prosperity 2025... with the ambition of increasing growth in Denmark by 80 billion. kr. It is a high ambition, but why shouldn't we have it, for who is it that wants to be the banner leader of low ambitions? I'm gonna ask a little rhetorical. I have not heard anyone today advocate low ambitions, so should we not share the high ones? We have presented a plan which shows in five areas of action that, if you have the will to do so, it is realistic to make a prosperity increase in Denmark of 80 billion. kr. We have drawn up a plan that shows that there is room for manoeuvre in the Danish economy, which has been provided by decisions we have already taken, right back from the welfare agreement in 2006, where I am pleased to note that the parties that concluded that agreement have also today reaffirmed it. This applies to the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party, which, it can be said, has formed an alliance in opposition to our idea of phasing things in a little faster. We have then taken note of this, although I may still have some difficulty in understanding that it is quite all right for the retirement age to rise to 68 by 2030, but that it is an attack on the large ones that it should rise to 6711⁄2 in 2025. But let it be, because there is broad support behind that agreement. It also turned out, when the elections were over in 2011, that there was broader support for what we did before the 2011 election • unemployment benefit reform, recovery package • everything that has created a job offer that, together with the housing tax agreement we have made here earlier this year, means that there is room for manoeuvre. It is not flashy, but it is there and it can be expanded if there is an ambition to do so. It is very clear from the proposal we have made that, within the five areas of action mentioned, the government intends to take steps to ensure that this happens. And the steps we take have two different expressions. There may be steps taken where you can calculate the gain in advance, i.e. analog to say that we are now increasing the retirement age, and then the Treasury machines can figure out what it is, and then you can spend the money, even before they are actually brought in. Then there are other steps and that is perhaps the new in Danish politics where you have to have the patience to see the effects of the political decisions you make before you can use the money responsibly and on the basis of a precautionary principle. This is true, for example. in relation to the whole effort to gain more people with a different ethnic background in employment. We know that there is a huge difference in the way the municipalities work with this. In some places, the IGU has been taken in on what we agreed in twoparts last year and arranged to get people with different ethnic backgrounds into the labour market, while elsewhere it pinchs with it. And we also know that if everyone did the best, there is great potential, and if we succeed in doing so, we release billions that can be used for purposes other than transfers to people with other ethnic backgrounds, but which can be invested in core welfare or infrastructure or in more growth in terms of better framework conditions for our businesses or close personal welfare in terms of tax cuts. That is how the government works on things, because we have the ambition to make Denmark richer, and we also have respect for the fact that, like almost all previous Danish governments, we are a minority government that is dependent on us reaching out and finding a majority. I feel myself in the sense that when maps and terrain do not fit together, one must follow the terrain, or, to put it another way, if one cannot achieve one's goal with the first tool one intended to use, one has to find another, because the goal is the decisive one. That's the government's goal. What is then the objective of the opposition is not quite clear to me, except that I can see that the day started with a proposal for adoption by parts of the opposition, the Social Democratic Party, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, where it is noted, and now I quote: the Danish Parliament finds that Denmark needs a different direction. ▪ Exciting! Another direction. But what direction? In any case, I am aware that the Radical Left will not go in that other direction, because they are not behind the proposal. I understand that, because we will not get that far without an offensive and long-term growth policy. Now it is the Radical Left that is not with us, and the last time we stood here, it was the Enhedslisten who could not support the Social Democrats' proposals for adoption. It has moved forward, and perhaps it is because Mrs Pernille Skipper has drawn her red lines, while the alternative has pulled up some green ones, and it becomes such a brown thing when you mix it. It's kind of a messy picture. On the other hand, the Danish picture is razor sharp. Denmark stands strong, and as something new there is not only growth, there is also development and growth in employment in all regions, including Jutland. Hello, Jutland still exists. I woke that up until May 1. Hello, Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Jutland still exists. It was a call from the Social Democratic Party, perhaps mostly to itself, because there were four years with a rural minister, but I do not really know what came out of it. 246 jobs were transferred to the capital and 237 to the other way. That's something that's moving. We have changed that, because we have created a freer law on plans, an agricultural package, an historic relocation of close to 4,000 state jobs out of Copenhagen and into the rest of the country. And now I understand that Mrs Mette Frederiksen is one hundred percent behind the government's relocation, and I am delighted, although I am of course a little surprised that the Socialists voted against moving jobs to Jutland. We had a proposal to move DIIS to Aarhus, but you couldn't do that. I also note that a single red block voted against the agricultural and food package, which is so much involved in creating activity in those parts of the country that need it most. So there is something with words and actions that may not be entirely consistent. Jutland also exists. South Jutland also exists. I mention this because Mrs Mette Frederiksen said that not a single unskilled person in South Jutland will be more skilled by giving top tax relief to those who live north of Copenhagen. Yes, there are no top tax payers living in South Jutland, you have to understand, because this is the kind of thing that is only paid by people in Copenhagen. In fact, I think that is a little prejudiced, and it is also factually wrong, because top tax is paid in all parts of the country, including South Jutland. For example, there were 4,600 top tax payers in Sønderborg Municipality in 2015. This is 7.4%, which is slightly lower than the national average of 10%, but still. The real picture of Sønderjylland is that Danes live in different income classes and that I think have the same ambition as the Danes in Central Jutland and North Jutland and on Funen and Lolland-Falster and on Bornholm and on Zealand and in the metropolitan area, namely that they want to prosper for themselves and for their families. We need to create that, and this is not, of course, just created by top tax concessions; it is probably more complicated than that, but just pushing it away is wrong. If we are now talking about South Jutland, one could mention a company like Danfoss, which together with LEGO participates in an association called work-live-stay southern Denmark, where they write: Lack of highly trained labour is a major challenge for the exploitation of growth potential in seven Danish companies. It challenges the whole of regional progress. I think we should bear this in mind, because what can become a growth killer, what can make the recovery that is in full swing not get flying altitude and flight length, is if we do not ensure qualified labour. And yes, it's about continuing training. That's also why we start a trialogue. And yes, it's about how we scale our education sector, but yes, it doesn't create the highly qualified workforce everywhere tomorrow. That is why we need to do two things: to get those with the high qualifications to perhaps make a little more effort, but also to draw people from the outside. After all, I asked a question this morning, to which no one really gave me an answer: how can we, as a nation, make it more difficult for the highly educated specialists we need to come to Denmark? I don't understand. I understand very well, and I am on the line myself, that we must shut Denmark down in the face of those who cannot and do not want to, but that we must also close Denmark off to those we actually need, I do not understand. I think it is a bit the reverse policy that one is opposed to the benefits of integration, which both send out a signal so that Denmark does not appear extraordinarily attractive and, at the same time, it can be said, mildly pushes those who will then come into employment. You're against that. There it is evident that half a billion kroner a year is being spent, it costs to abolish it, whereas the foreign guests we might need to promote growth and prosperity must be made more difficult. I don't quite get it. I'll tell you what. For me and for the government, it is a matter of conducting a two-legged immigration policy, keeping Denmark legally closed to those who cannot and will, and having an open vision and therefore also being open to those who actually have something to contribute. It is one of the ways to get the labour supply we need if we are to create more growth and prosperity in Denmark if we are to give the upswing flying height and flight length. Another thing that I mentioned this morning is that we must bring everyone with us. I mentioned the fact that here in the municipality where I live, I have said no to participating in the effort to set ambitious targets for how many fewer pupils have to leave primary school for the next 3 years with a grade of less than 4 in Danish and mathematics. I have had difficulty understanding this, and during the day I have been able to see in the daily press that the Copenhagen schools say they will not participate, because they will then also have to participate in a support programme with help and guidance and support, and that it will remove resources from the efforts already undertaken by the schools. This is the reason which the schools of the City of Copenhagen themselves bring forward in today's debate. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to say that there must be a misunderstanding, because there is not such a requirement that, in order to participate in the school pool, you should also participate in the support programme. Therefore, I would just like to call on the schools and the City of Copenhagen to reconsider their decision. I can inform you that the Minister for Education has just invited Mayor Frank Jensen to coffee to clear this and any other misunderstandings. I hope it will be constructive, for the sake of the students. I am also saying this as a taxpayer in the City of Copenhagen. I think it would be nice if an ambitious objective to reduce the number of pupils who do not receive the grades of Danish and mathematics needed to be able to choose the upper secondary education of their choice. I am also saying this because this is part of the whole debate on inequality, which has also been here today, and in which I would like to acknowledge the nuanced approach on the subject, at least at the moment, of the Social Democratic Party and the SF, where it is said very precisely that this is not something that can only be made up of a Gini coefficient. It is also about equal opportunities. Inequality is not about mathematics. I am glad that Mrs Mette Frederiksen agrees with that, at least today. Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt put in place. I am, of course, most concerned about people getting a job with the dignity of being able to support themselves and the joy of providing their own as an authoritative citizen rather than keeping people in a client role where actions and opportunities for action have been deposited in the municipal office. That is also why we have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits. It is being criticised and it is being criticised here today. It is unclear what fate it would have if, in just over two years' time, when there has been a parliamentary election, we had a different majority. Social democracy criticizes it over and over again. When the SF then puts forward a motion for a resolution to roll it back, the Social Democrats will not vote for it. It's a little unclear. It does not do so for the government, with the support of our parliamentary foundation in the Danish People's Party, because this tool, together with the integration service, is part of the reason why we can say with pride today that we have not had as few people on public support in the last few years, as we now have. Then there is an issue which has also been raised here today and which not only interests us in this Chamber but also concerns many Danes. This is not something I think it is something I know, because I am a citizen of Copenhagen, even one of them. Foreigners who travel here camp on our streets and alleys, begging aggressively and charging so-called protection money from our homeless, make us insecure. We will not accept that, and we should not accept it, because the city must be a safe place for everyone, which is why we have already taken the first steps. On April 1st, the police were given a new tool. It was prohibited in public places to establish and reside in camps suitable for creating insecurity in a nearby area. If the ban is violated, a fine can be imposed and repeated infringements can result in a zone ban, and this has an effect. The Minister of Justice is insisting that this should be followed up, and it has an effect. The Copenhagen Police have had a great deal of focus on the problem. In 2017, they cleared 25 camps and 84 charges have been filed. So that's good. But much harder and more cash is needed. For what we are witnessing does not belong in any way in our society, and therefore the government will propose doubling the penalty for insecurity-building begging and begging. Today it is the case that, in first cases in general, the sentence is 7 days suspended in prison. The government will propose that the starting point be 14 days of unconditional imprisonment in first-time cases at begging in public places where it is particularly troublesome. I have written to the President of the Danish Parliament and informed her that the government will table a bill this week, on Friday, with a wish to have it first dealt with on Friday. This obviously requires Parliament to be prepared to do so, and we will also leave it up to the Folketing to finalise this proposal in the first reading of the draft budget in September, or, if you stand in formality, to fall away and only be retabled in the new parliamentary year. For me and the government, it is crucial that we act, and I think the Danes have an expectation that we are doing everything we can to put an end to what we are seeing here. This is also why the Minister for Justice has presented three further initiatives this evening to stem the insecurity-building behaviour that is pervading parts of Copenhagen. We will extend the zone ban from the existing ban on camps. This applies to the geographical area, but also to the possibility of communicating it, for the first time the rules are infringed. We will set up a fast-track system so that we can test immediately whether a specific person has a residence base at all here in Denmark and ensure that expulsion is as effective as possible, and finally we will take it up at EU level. Because, as several people have said here today, the problems we are facing are with, for example, the problems we are facing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done on this subject. There is also a need for action at EU level. However, in full parallel to the migration flow and the influx of asylum, which is not a purely national challenge, and which also calls for European and international solutions, the same applies here. We have to raise this issue in the European Union and we have to find alliances in the European Union, but we must not wait, we must act, and the government has to do so. Today, we have also had a good discussion with our North Atlantic MPs, for which I would like to thank them, hoping for some kind of understanding, given that time is running out, and that it is many times that I cannot replicate it very deeply and in detail, also because as recently as last week we had two even very thorough, good and important debates in this Chamber, i.e. one about the Kingdom community in general, one can say, and a question debate focused on Greenland's economy and the work on a constitution. So I can, of course, rely on everything I said last week, and then you'll be able to recall yourself... I think I'm a warm supporter of the Kingdom community, but I'm also perfectly aware that it doesn't just take two for a tango. In this case, it takes three more, three more, for the Kingdom community that we know today. However, I would like to say to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen and Mrs Aleqa Hammond that I do not quite recognize the picture that is being drawn from the fact that one should have been left out of influence in this Chamber and at Christiansborg in the context of major political negotiations. As I have also mentioned before, the government involves the Greenlandic and Faroese members of parliament in the context of major conciliation negotiations to the extent that this is relevant, and we will do so in the future. Then Mr. Magni Arge and Mr. Sjúrður Skaale both inside the Little Mermaid, and yes, I saw well the other day that she was painted red. I thought that was the kind of thing Katharina Grosse was doing, that it was such an expansive Århusian initiative, that is, that now that the Memorial Park was painted red, the trip had come to the Little Mermaid. Sometimes it can be hard to distinguish art from political manifestations, but this wasn't art. Apparently it was in the Memorial Park, but this wasn't art. It was a political manifestation which, of course, I would like to distance myself from. I fully agree with and recognise that access to the sustainable use of marine resources is essential for both Faroese and Greenlandic communities, and of course we support this both politically and in practice when it is necessary. I walk the talk. I love grinning meat, and it is of course dangerous to admit here, because I know how much my twitter account gets bombarded every time there is a laughing season in the Faroe Islands, and when I write my own person into it in this way, then I guess things are going really wrong. But I just want to say that the government supports this. That's what I'm talking about. I'm about to finish my line. Time's running out. I think this has been a good debate. I think it has been kept in a good tone, I think it has been very peaceful and very rewarding, and so I would like to finish off where I started, namely with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist and this reexamination that will take place on the first Tuesday of October. Here was one of the strict demands of the examiner that the world goals should be included in the result. But why wait until autumn? I can sort of deliver on that right now. Firstly, the government will create a global target fund to contribute to billions of investments in sustainable solutions in developing countries. Secondly, we have drawn up an action plan for Denmark's follow-up to the World Goals, where, for example, we have set up an action plan for Denmark's follow-up to the World Goals. will assess the impact of new legislative proposals on the global objectives. Thirdly, Denmark, together with the other Nordic countries, just yesterday or the day before yesterday, has launched a joint Nordic initiative on Nordic solution, which is about the Nordic region reaching out to the rest of the world and offering inspiration. For that is the world's goal, and if we are to move on to them, we must have made the world committed, and it is of course also in that light that I am deeply concerned about the reports that have been made during the day but have not yet been verified that Americans are apparently considering withdrawing from the Paris Agreement. Well, we gotta go. The debate is not over yet. There are brief comments, and the parliamentary year is not over either. We have 35 legislative proposals and resolutions on Thursday's agenda, and on Friday we have 45 proposals on the agenda, so we are not yet in the finish line. I have just launched a single new initiative and, after the summer break, other important tasks await us, for example. more alien tightenings. After the summer holidays, we take part. We need to tackle the rules of family reunification, a job reform II with the continuing ambition of getting more people into work and less on transfers, new growth initiatives so that progress can continue, a new energy initiative with ambitious and realistic goals, all with the background that Denmark stands strong, and we must continue to do so. We need to give the upswing flying altitude and flight length.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531221940	Thank you, Prime Minister. And it was as close to keeping to the times as it could be for a prime minister. At any rate, I have a long list of speakers here who, perhaps to follow the good example, would also like to keep to the speaking time. Then we'll have as many as we can. The first is Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531221957	Thank you. It is clear that when the Mayor of Copenhagen shouts out the government today with the unfortunate problems of travelling Eastern Europeans to Copenhagen, we should all listen with very great interest. Not only does it cause problems on the streets of Copenhagen, harassment of Danish homeless people, unrest and perhaps crime and, at the very least, a city image we do not want, where people who are obviously poor and do not feel well take their seats on benches and create a totally unnecessary unrest in our capital city. One is what we can do in the short term: ensure that the police have the right tools and the right resources. That is wise, and I believe that we are all involved in a discussion of this. Something else is how we actually deal with the European discussion. One is to travel to Brussels and raise the issue. After all, something else is to do what I would like to call on the Prime Minister to take the lead in simply changing the residence directive. When I say that, it's because I think we're gonna have to deal with the nettle's mess. The free movement of people in Europe must be about employment and education. It should not be about begging, it should not be about the export of social problems, it should not be about changing the city image in the capitals, as we are currently seeing. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister very specifically: will the government take the lead in changing the residence directive so that you will no longer be able to stay in another European country if you cannot finance your own stay and if you do not have a residence to return to?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222147	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222148	Thank you. I therefore very much agree that freedom of movement must be free movement after work or after education and not free movement after social services or what we see now, which in reality is even worse, if we can bend things down in this way, so that we have the freedom to move to commit crime or beg or create insecurity. This is a debate in which I regularly take part and in which I also participated very constructively in the debate on the platform by which the former Prime Minister Cameron could issue a referendum in Britain. So it is a job that I am committed to, and which I, by the way, in what should you call the wake of the Brexit negotiations have an expectation of being updated in the EU circle again. Therefore, it would be appropriate to take initiatives in this context. I think, then, that it has to be said quietly that it will take some time. I know that I cannot ask questions, but that is why, of course, I would still like to know how the Social Democrats feel about the proposal I have just launched. Because that is not a new proposal. After all, this is a proposal put forward by the government for which I was previously Prime Minister before we enlarged the government and which, among other things, was. We were shipwrecked because the Social Democrats could not support it. So now we are putting it in a form in which we have qualified the purpose clause, so that it is not just any Danish homeless person who puts out his hand, who in principle risks 14 days of unconditional imprisonment, but so that it is targeted what can be called insecure begging. I believe that it can make a difference, including in the signal to the people who organise some of the incoming gangs we see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222350	Thank you. Mette Frederiksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222352	We are certainly in favour of this. I would like to say that the opposition we have had in the past, among other things. come from myself, and let me be quite honest and say that for a number of years there have been old-fashioned hobos in Denmark and unfortunately some Danish homeless people. And I say unfortunately, because I really want all Danes to have a home to stay in. But we have been able to make it work, and I have opposed a change of law which would mean that a Danish homeless person who sticks the cup or hand rather than earn a coin to buy a cup of coffee would be criminalised. If we can avoid that, of course, there is support on our part. Couldn't I get back the other way on the PM's side? Because I actually don't think the PM answered. One thing, of course, is to problematize the way in which freedom of movement works. Another thing is to give a commitment here today to take the lead in changing the residence directive. Because the truth is that the police can do more than they do today, and that some legislative changes would be good. But if we continue to have a Europe where people do not travel to work and to train, for example. If we are to find a new place to beg and, by the way, live a shaky life, that is not the Europe we want. That is why I would like a clear answer from the Prime Minister: will action be taken to change the residence directive, and will the Prime Minister take the lead? Furthermore, will the second European issue that has been raised today be addressed, namely that we will no longer be able to send criminals to a country such as Romania because we have apparently been condemned by the Supreme Court? We also need a change there, because we must not come to Denmark to commit crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222534	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222535	I am grateful for all the questions put to me by the former Minister for Justice of the country that clear answers must now be given to all the questions that were rightly asked to Mrs Mette Frederiksen when Mrs Mette Frederiksen was Minister of Justice. I have then chosen to end here in a constructive tone to skip the seven pages that I have prepared, how huge differences there are between what was said and what was done, for, well, less than 2 years ago, and then what you are doing now. But it was because I thought I didn't really want to be polemical. I think I have given an answer to that and there are challenges in EU cooperation. And yes, wherever I come, I am involved in promoting the nuance needed in the EU debate. It is about having rules that ensure the good aspects of freedom of movement, without the ills going with it. And it would be easy for me to say that I am taking the lead. In other words, we are Denmark among the countries that participated most constructively throughout the run-up to the agreement on which the Brexit vote was based and which also addressed some of these issues. And therefore Denmark will be to find there. But I also think that one has to say quite quietly that if we are to move something on that agenda, then it is not done by one man standing up and taking the lead. This must be done by making our influence felt in all relevant forums. In relation to the second question, I would like to say that this specific issue with Romania is quite thought-provoking. For we therefore have a country that is a member of the European Union, where the prerequisite is that we meet the Copenhagen criteria, which were negotiated at the time and, among other things, in place. is about respect for human rights. Today, however, we have received a decision from the Supreme Court that says that we cannot hand over because we cannot secure a service that complies with the criteria on which membership of the European Union is in fact based as a prerequisite. And that calls for action. That is why this matter will be dealt with specifically by the Minister for Justice at the earliest opportunity, and I think it will be next week when the Minister meets with his Romanian colleagues.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222751	That may be the speaking time, it is wrong; at least we do not hit them very well, either from the questioner or from the speaker, I would say. But now we're gonna try with mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531222800	Thank you, President. Two things: firstly, full support from the Danish People's Party for the proposal announced by the Prime Minister here from the Parliament's platform. After all, there was full support for this when we saw it in an earlier form during the negotiations we had with the former V government. It is clear that now that the government has been able to put forward the proposal, we are only pleased, and then we would very much like to help deal with it here in the Folketing as quickly as possible. And that helps a little bit. More initiatives are needed, and that is why I am pleased to hear that the Minister for Justice will move forward with more initiatives. However, it should not be short of goodwill towards an element here about better opportunities for the police to be able to imprison the people who come from outside and exploit the Danes' goodwill. The second point I would like to make is that, in relation to the decision of the Supreme Court today, four Romanians cannot be extradited for prosecution in their country of origin because they apparently get too few square metres to stand up for if they are guilty of crime such as trafficking in human beings. They get a little too few square meters to sit on in an open or half-armed prison, says the Supreme Court, so they are protected by the Human Rights Convention. Well, come on, sir. Prime Minister: Can Denmark have free movement in relation to a country that cannot take back its own citizens? In other words, that is not what is quite simple here, namely that the answer must surely be that we cannot have freedom of movement in relation to a country to which we cannot send its own citizens to prosecute extremely criminal situations such as gross trafficking in human beings. That's what this case is about; that's what these people are accused of. It may be the biggest case in Danish history of trafficking in human beings, and then those people cannot be prosecuted in their country of origin because they can risk going to an open or half-armed prison where they get too few square meters to sit on. Well, we cannot put up with that. Something must be done about it, it must be handled in a very firm way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223003	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223004	Well, I very much agree with that. I, like everyone else, have had to take note of today's decision of the Supreme Court. I can't influence the fact that it's been taken. I had clearly hoped that the outcome would be different, just as it was a different one in the Court of Justice. Now the Supreme Court has spoken, and we must accept that. But it is quite obvious that this judgment opens up a huge problem in international cooperation to send criminals behind bars. And it goes without saying that it is totally untenable. After all, it is grotesque and it is absurd that an EU country does not live up to fundamental rights when, moreover, it is the case that participation in EU cooperation is made conditional on living up to these fundamental rights. Now the judgment has fallen today, but I assume that Romania will remedy the situation as soon as possible. And now it is the case that, in relation to these cases, among other things. is on an extradition request from Romania, so it is not just a Danish view that we now have to get rid of these people. There is, in fact, an extradition requirement from Romania, which we cannot then fulfil because Romania does not meet the conditions. That is why, as I said before, the Minister for Justice will address this matter directly to his Romanian colleague immediately next week.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223140	Sir. Kristian Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223142	That's a good thing, of course, but there's got to be two ways in this. One way, of course, is to say to Romania: you want some of your citizens to be punished, and we can understand that because they are accused of quite, quite vile things about simply exploiting the wretched conditions of some people. That's one side of it. But the other side of it is what the Prime Minister is really saying here, that is to say, the foundation for being a member of the European Union, among other things. is that we are living up to the Convention on Human Rights. And that means that the basis for Romanian membership of the European Union is not there. Then some may think it's dramatic to start questioning membership of the club, yes, yes. However, the fact is that it is also a completely grotesque situation that we find ourselves in, namely that a country wants to take back its own citizens, but that we cannot be allowed to repel them because of our courts, which say that it does not comply with the rules of the game that it itself has signed to live up to as a member. So there are probably two ways: one is in relation to Romania, which, as the Prime Minister says, will be addressed next week; but there is also another way, and it is well to go to the European Union and say: this is not going to work, we cannot live with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223256	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223257	Now, first of all, we are taking up this very specific issue with regard to Romania. Having said that, this decision today also shows some systemic challenges, you might call it, because we have seen elements of the same in other contexts. We have seen it in relation to Greece, where we are prevented from returning asylum seekers under the Dublin Regulation, although Greece is an EU country, because some authorities have considered that the conditions are not there. It therefore underlines a rather central point, namely that EU cooperation is based on rights and obligations. And yes, we also need to follow on from the question raised by the President of the Socialist Party before a wider discussion in the European Union about the importance of implementing and complying with the things we have committed ourselves to, otherwise countries such as ours will be cut off and squeezed, which in one way or another behaves well and properly and respects all international rules of the game. In fact, in the light of this judgment today, we also looked at some very inappropriate positions, because it would, after all, be too drastic a step in the light of today's judgment that we suspended unilaterally and without consultation of others the rights granted to Romanians under the EU Treaties.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223432	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223434	Thank you. I would like to address something that the Prime Minister just mentioned with half a sentence, namely the prospect that the US President, Donald Trump, is actually going to withdraw the United States from the Paris Agreement, that is, the major international climate agreement. It is an historic agreement. This is the first time that the whole world has put itself together and recognised problems with climate challenges and set targets to solve them. And that is absolutely crucial, because we know that it is not enough for each of us to buy more climate-friendly products, nor is it enough for one country to do so, nor is it enough for half the world to embark on the green transition. We actually need everyone to go. The United States is one of the world's largest emitters of CO2 and if the United States goes, we risk others going, too, because it is a cost for some countries to have to convert to sustainable development at least an expense here and now. What about China, India and other great emitters? So what I just want to ask the Prime Minister is, what will the Prime Minister do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223552	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223553	First of all, I would like to reiterate the point I made directly to the President of the United States when I met him, it was probably in February, in the White House, namely that it is important for the United States to play on this agenda. It is in the interests of the United States, it is in the interests of the rest of the world, and it is in a double sense, both because we have to look after the climate and the earth, but also because it can support, also in a narrow American context, growth and prosperity. The American rust belt completely coincides with the American wind belt. I believe that the American authorities' own figures show that 600,000 jobs could be created in the US wind turbine industry if this agenda were embraced. So that is my point of view, that is Denmark's view, and I have had the opportunity to make that directly to the President. But I can't dictate him. We can call and appeal, and I do so here, and I do so in a situation where the decision has not been taken, one must understand. Well, I only have media reports and have to understand lately tweet that it's being communicated next week. And then it has to be up against a Danish signal that we will be sorry and worried about that, both because of the substance, but also because we have to be able to count on international agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223725	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223726	I'm glad, because it's really important. And then may I ask the Prime Minister to elaborate on how that signal is sent. For something suggests that the Prime Minister very well renders that decision made, and maybe we have a chance to try to influence it here before it goes wrong. So could the PM be a little bit more specific? So, you go to the European Union with this, and will there be an overall response from the European Union? Is there a contact via the embassies already now on the basis of the information there is? What are you going to do? And then may I not just call on the Enhedslisten to do so. After all, as the Prime Minister knows, it is basically about whether there is a planet for our children and grandchildren. It is so crucial that the United States is involved. So a little more concrete promise would make me even happier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223821	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223822	I do not think the President of the United States is in any doubt as to how the circle of European countries views this and what expectations we have of the United States here too. This has also been explained quite clearly at the time of the G7 meeting which took place in Sicily a few days ago. And, as I have said, I have delivered it as directly as possible, namely in a direct conversation with the American President of the White House, and now I repeat the view here. I actually think you listen. This evening, moreover, I have had a brief contact with the Swedish Prime Minister, and we will probably return to it tomorrow, because it may be natural, following on from the Nordic initiative we took yesterday, the day before yesterday, earlier this week, that is to say the joint Nordic Prime Minister's initiative, to use that opportunity also to repeat some points of view. But it's work in progress all the time that I've been sitting in this room all day and like others, I've just been able to let me know how this case is developing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223939	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531223941	Thank you. You shudder when the Prime Minister tells you about his exam experience, but maybe that explains a little bit anyway. Because the curriculum that I spoke about earlier today was not the Alternative's curriculum. It's kind of the whole world's curriculum. It is the UN's goal to stop the loss of biodiversity by 2020, it is the Paris Agreement, and it is the UN's global goal for a sustainable future. That's what I've been asking about. And then you hear the Prime Minister tell you that you're out doing something in the world with the Nordic countries. It is fantastic, it is great, and I have even praised the Prime Minister here for what he has done in the past. But I still think: what is it like now when the alternative talks about these new subjects, these new subjects, these new subjects? Then it's because you have to think crosswise. Now that you are out and making funds for the sustainability objectives, how does this relate to the new plans to expand marine farms? How does this relate to the abolition of PSOs, where CO2 How does this relate to one, and how does it relate to the other? This is the thinking that I actually called for the Prime Minister's response to earlier. It's nice if the Prime Minister wants to be re-examined now and not until October.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224111	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224112	Thank you. Well, I do think that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Nordqvist must do what he claims to do: think globally and then put Danish actions into a global perspective. If, for example, we are going to do something like this... In addition to the fact that it is a growth boost for Danish industry, the greatest overall relaxation in probably a generation or more is arranged in a way that at the same time enables the continued green transition. It's cheaping electricity. This means that it also helps to shift the composition of our energy sources to electricity, which is, of course, a prerequisite for us to be able to feed it in terms of renewable energy as well. There, moreover, the government has a very ambitious objective. This is a very ambitious objective, which I know you are trying to discourage, but it is very ambitious, namely that by 2030 we will have to cover half of our energy consumption of renewable energy. Now the parties in the opposition have come together for an unsubstantiated criticism of this kind and an ambition of 100 per cent. on electricity. I just have to say that I think it is very close to just being another way of expressing the government's objective, i.e. 50%. energy, 100%. on electricity, renewable. So the PSO disposal we have made promotes Danish competitive power, it promotes a continued green transition in Denmark. Moreover, it also contributes to maintaining production in Europe in one of the countries with the best energy efficiency and the greenest energy, rather than in other countries, Poland or elsewhere where coal is still dominant. That's why you have to see this in a broader perspective than just Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224317	But does the Prime Minister and I really try to understand whether the Prime Minister has made his own curriculum that we fully live up to the Paris Agreement, as it looks out with the plans of the Prime Minister with his 2025 plan, where climate is not mentioned more than once? And what about biodiversity, which unfortunately we do not reach, can we understand from the government? In other words, does the Prime Minister really believe that the curriculum has been read out when we do not comply with this series of international agreements?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224354	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224355	Well, at least we live up to a hundred percent of international agreements. If we take the Paris agreement, it is of course Europe, the European Union, that has assumed some CO2 to deliver its share of it. I have read a great deal of my lesson, which is why I also know that in the quota-coated area, if we deliver too much in the goose-eyes, that is more than our relative share, then that means that some other European countries can deliver less. That is the context in which it is based. That is the context in which it is based, and that is why we must find the balance where Denmark leads, take its share of it, and I can guarantee that we are there. We will also be able to see this when, before the summer holidays in the European Council, we have to determine the distribution between the non-quota area. I believe that Denmark will end up with a commitment which is very, very high and which will also challenge us. But fair enough, because we have to. This is also one of the reasons why we are now hosting this Øresund Energy Week, which may be the biggest international activity next year with regard to this whole agenda. We do so in recognition that Denmark is an international leader in precisely these issues.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224510	Thank you. If that helps, then speaking time is 1 minute for the questioner and for the answerer in the first place, and then you expect to get such a good answer that you can settle for 1⁄2 minutes in the second place both for questions and answers. It was just an enlightenment. Then it's mr. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224528	Thank you. I think it was a bit astonishing this morning to listen to the Prime Minister saying that everything was basically going according to plan, that there were no punks in the waltz, that was what the Prime Minister had foreshadowed after a parliamentary year in which we have a different government at the end of the year than we had when it began, and we also have a different economic policy because a 2025 plan has been presented, which differs quite significantly from the one put forward at the beginning of the year. It is still a peculiar view in Danish politics, but still the Prime Minister can say that things are going well, as he had expected, well where they are going! I just have to say that if it is a 2025 plan that needs to be taken seriously, and if the objective is still to increase the number of people employed in Denmark by this 60 000 through policy measures, then the pace is a bit heavy. Because with what has been put forward now, you can gather together for, if you get agreements on it before the summer break, that you have reached 3,500. I just want to say that if it is the pace that satisfies the Prime Minister in terms of the momentum of the plans, then it will surely reach its 2025 target at some point in the vicinity of 2050. That is why I would just like to ask: is there not a little bit of difficulty in the fact that, after all, the government cannot keep up a pace that just gives any kind of realism about its 2025 targets as it now seems?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224655	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224656	I don't think anyone can find a quote from me where I've said things are just going according to plan. I have said that Denmark is strong and that in relation to the objectives and ambitions we have, about how Denmark should feel, things are going well. Well, I am really, really happy when we hear today that there are 91 000 more private jobs than there were in the parliamentary elections. It's not something I'm sorry about, I'm glad about that. I will be very, very happy when, through the policy we have been pursuing, we have made the number of asylum seekers as low as we have seen in the last eight years. I am certainly very pleased and proud that the policy we have pursued, with a ceiling on cash aid and an integration allowance and a number of other things and two-party agreements in the field of integration, means that we now have the lowest number of people on public support we have had for ten years. I'm gonna be happy about that. You can't take that away from me. Then we have a forward-looking ambition. And it is true that the ambition has not been adjusted, but the tools have been adjusted. Is that self-acknowledgment? First of all, it is a trivial realization that we live in a democracy and that it is useless to insist on using a tool, whether you are called Mr. Morten Østergaard or myself, if there is no support for it. And instead of giving up, we must find other ways of promoting the same objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224821	Sir. Morten Østergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224822	What I am appealing to is some form of honesty: if you take out the tool that should deliver half of the goods and yet you do not adjust the objectives, and you do so without creating any political situation whatsoever other than rotating in your government and changing into your plans, then I think it will be a little fresh to say: my point marks stand at hand, and things are going as I had foreshadowed. Because obviously it doesn't. Everyone can see that it is a government that is extremely difficult in the parliament that you are in. That is why I would just like to say that it is, after all, the responsibility of the Head of Government, which policy can ultimately be pursued and whether it will be put to the test. But we have also heard today, and I hope we can take this seriously, an invitation to broad cooperation. The Radical Left has never said that we were not ready to take action. That is why, of course, I also expect that, if we are to get to work, we will be invited to the negotiations and that we will not do what was the wrong path taken in the '00s, which caused us to suffer so badly during the crisis, namely to puppet ourselves with block politics, because that is the only thing you can really resort to when things are going as badly as they have been in this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224928	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531224928-2	I am well aware that the parliamentary situation is not simple. I have to ask, when has it been? If you do so in the history books, I think you can recall many situations where changing government leaders have been challenged by the fact that a majority in the Folketing wanted something different. It was Poul Schlüter's terms throughout the 1980s on foreign policy. There are plenty of examples of this. But because it is not easy, you should not leave it to others, and then you should stick to your goals. If you look up in growth and prosperity 2025, you can see on page 15 what five areas of action this government is going to work systematically on towards 2025 to achieve an unchanged objective. And yes, it can be done. And would it be simpler just to increase the retirement age? Yes, it would be. - Sir... Morten Østergaard point to the majority that could be able to do so? - Sir, you can. Morten Østergaard probably not. So are we gonna give up our ambition? No, we'll have to find another way forward. That is why the government has presented a 13-point programme which draws the same path, but with other tools.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225047	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225048	Today's major challenge is the climate challenge, and the Paris Agreement was, after all, the ambition to be able to meet the goals together. When President Trump states so much that he is considering stepping out of the Paris Agreement, it will have consequences for the agreement. My main concern is that Russia could consider the same course, and I would really like to ask the Prime Minister what he thinks we can do in Europe to avoid that scenario. I noted that Pernille Skipper asked how to influence the United States, but it would be obvious in a European community to try to pool some of the forces in a way that could be said in relation to Trump and in Michelle Obama's words: When they go low, we go high. Perhaps we could help to raise our ambitions in general, create partnerships, for example. with China. What's the Prime Minister thinking? Could it be imagined that a Council meeting here later in June will be used to reverse that discussion as well?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225155	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225156	May I not say first, and I have to say for the record, that I am not aware of the fact that the United States wants to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. I don't know, I guess, and that's why I think the focus here should be on sending out the signal that we don't want to see it. Moreover, it is not so simple just to resign, because there is a three-year period after the conclusion of the agreement, which must be terminated before it can be terminated, and then there is one year's notice. This means that we will be there in 2019 and indeed around the next US presidential elections, before I am known to be here, with the reservation that I have not studied all the details of such an American decision. And I also have no detailed insight into how, moreover, such an American decision is made, i.e. whether it is a decision that the President can just make on his own. We have seen examples of the new American administration having to adapt itself to the rules of the game between the White House and the two chambers, etc. So I think in this phase, it's about sending the signal that the world needs the United States in this deal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225327	Mrs. Pia Olsen Dyhr.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225328	That is fine, but I hope then that the next step, if that should happen, is to find common solutions with our European colleagues, and I think that Angela Merkel has recently sent out some excellent signals in relation to the United States. The Prime Minister also stated in her concluding remarks that Denmark must be open to those who want to, and I just want to ask specifically about the 13-year-old girl from Silkeborg, Yiming Liu, who is facing expulsion. She can and she wants to Denmark, speaks Danish, participates, contributes actively. The mother has been granted a residence permit, the stepfather has previously been released. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is the definition of can and will not be met?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225417	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225418	A specific case is being asked, which is also being dealt with in concrete terms, and which, as far as I am aware, has now been put on the basis of a continuing procedure. And that is why it would in every way be inappropriate for me to intervene in this matter. I can say in general terms that, like many others, I sometimes come up with specific examples where I think: these are not exactly the ones we would not have wanted to be here. In the same way, I sometimes also come across examples where I think: well, why can't we get rid of them there? And it is easy to say those things, but the challenge is that we live in a society of law where rules adopted here in the Folketing must be put through equally. There are conventions bindings, and there are a number of other things which are, of course, the serious explanation that we sometimes have personal cases where you think this is wrong, but where law comes in. We must have the courage to challenge this all the time, and that is also the reason why, after the Social Democratic Party took an interest in these questions about the spouses of Danish citizens who move home after a long life abroad, we have put the people in view of the fact that in the next session we will return with new rules of law. And I have the ambition that we can combine rules that create an even better balance. Because I do not want to compromise on the fact that we must keep Denmark closed to those who cannot and will not. Otherwise, we challenge the cohesion and the economy and culture of our country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225607	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, IA. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225608	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister mentions that North Atlantic MPs will be guaranteed influence on their own affairs when relevant, so I would like to know when the Prime Minister thinks it is relevant, because I have not yet seen it, and then I would like to challenge the Prime Minister on this point that we are actually out of influence, at least from the Inuit Ataqatigiits chair. A concrete example is from the time when the defence committee decided that Green Valley should be reopened in South Greenland. We were not presented as members of parliament, despite the fact that we had been in a meeting with the Secretary of Defense the day before the line of defense had to discuss these things. So when is it relevant that we get involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225700	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225701	The signal I have sent to my ministers is that they must maintain a good and close dialogue with the North Atlantic members on all issues that have a North Atlantic angle. Is it the same as saying to them that they must not take decisions without agreement with the North Atlantic mandates, or something like that? No, I have not done so, just as I have not done so in relation to all other members of the House, since we are now talking about the equality of all. I believe that everything we are discussing here in the Folketing seems to be relevant to everyone. And if you are a Unity List member, elected on Funen, or a Conservative, elected on Funen, or a Leftman elected on Funen, then you would think that if there is a matter about the West Funen motorway, it is relevant, but that does not mean that we then equip the Minister of Transport with a premonition that we can only mean something about the West Funen motorway if everyone elected on Funen is sworn in. That is why we also have to choose. In other words, if you want equal value, it is also an equal value, and in addition to the North Atlantic members being elected in Greenland and the Faroe Islands, the North Atlantic members are also political and reflect an ideology and some attitudes. So this has many aspects, just as I have heard Mr. Sjúrður Skaale argues nuancedly in relation to what Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen says, namely a reservation to use her mandate to seek influence on things that, in his view, are really Danish in their context. So I will not stand here and just promise that every time something has a Greenlandic angle, I and Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen have to agree to make a decision.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225838	Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225840	Thank you very much to the Prime Minister. In fact, I think that the Prime Minister himself argues in favour of dialogue, and a conciliation is, of course, a negotiation, it is a dialogue, and that is why the government cannot sit and take a decision on the day before the conciliation circle has discussed it and before you have listened to exactly what the North Atlantic Members have to say. I'm thinking that if you're just starting from this equivalence, it's about sitting in this dialogue and participating in this dialogue, you're gonna be involved in this debate in those areas. I think there is an underlying premise that we are not fair, that we are not fair in the focus that we have. Because, of course, we are concerned about safeguarding some Greenlandic interests, that is what we are elected for, and we know that we have a different starting point, but we also know that we have a great deal to contribute.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225925	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531225925-2	Yes, and all 175 other Members have been elected to represent Danish interests, but of course also with their own political background. That's my point from before. The two Greenlandic members are not identical, and the two Faroese members are not identical, and from time to time we have people elected in Greenland and the Faroe Islands with a greater ideological span than other times, and that is why I just quietly say that politics has many dimensions. Some of it is geographical, and some of it is ideological, and that is why I cannot stand by and commit to the fact that we must have, for example, at all times. both the Greenlandic members on board, so that we can dispose of questions relating to Greenland. I believe that, in a historical perspective too, and I believe that Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen has had a great deal of experience of this, not only in negotiations but also in negotiations, but also in negotiations. I guess that's one of them. also because in my optics there is a strong Greenlandic impression on the rate pool agreements we made last year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230046	Then it's mr. Nicolai Wammen, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230047	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen said earlier today that the Prime Minister is the right one to ask in relation to the responsibility of ministers. I would therefore like to ask: Does the Prime Minister agree with the Danish Parliament Ombudsman that on 10 February 2016 the Minister for Foreign Affairs gave an instruction that, according to its content, was illegal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230116	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230117	I am aware of the Ombudsman's conclusion, and I am also fully aware that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration has taken note of and implemented the Ombudsman's opinion. And that's the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230138	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230143	Allow me to take this as an indication that the Prime Minister agrees that an instruction was given which, according to its content, was illegal. And so I would just like to ask in all its simplicity: will one be able to be a minister of the Prime Minister's government if it turns out that an instruction has been issued as a minister, knowing that the instruction in question was contrary to the law?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230208	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230210	But I am not answering such a little speculative question. Well, I have full confidence in my Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. I am aware of the Ombudsman's statement. I have referred here to the immediate reaction of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration to the opinion of the Ombudsman in question. I am also aware that the Minister will have to consult tomorrow and will be prepared to answer the questions relating to this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230239	The next question is Mr. Peter Skaarup, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230241	Thank you. We in the Danish People's Party would say about the bill announced by the government, about Roma and the problem, the challenge it poses in our cities at the moment, that we think it is good that the government has listened. From the morning it was the Mayor of Copenhagen, Frank Jensen, who told us about his assessment of the problem, a problem he wanted help with, and we have been pursuing the subject during the debate and have found that both the Social Democrats and the government are now prepared for something to happen. We think it is very, very positive that something is going to happen. Whether that is enough, we are somewhat more in doubt, but we must at least take the necessary steps, and there we hope that the parties of the Folketing will be able to deal with the legislative initiatives quickly and very much in the course of the next week or two or three, in other words as soon as possible, in order to provide the authorities with the tools that are urgently needed to resolve this problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230348	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230349	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge the positive reaction, the expected positive reaction, and also the announcement of a smooth process in the Folketing. Learned from all experience, I am not going to anticipate the course of events, because we are Parliament's servants, and we are putting forward this bill on Friday, and we are asking so humbly for dispensation from the Rules of Procedure of the Danish Parliament so that it can be dealt with first, but it is up to the Danish Parliament, just as the Folketing also decides how to process this bill. The government is making itself available because we are listening and I am listening, and I am also listening to myself, and the proposal we are now making is a proposal that I myself, at least in the past, have had and for which I tried to obtain a majority in a previous government earlier in this parliamentary year. At that time it was not possible to do so, among other things. Because of strong social democratic opposition, but if it is transformed now, it is only good.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230454	Next in line, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230459	Thank you. I have a simple and fundamental question for the Prime Minister. It goes on to say that if there is a situation in which a minister breaks the law of ministerial responsibility by breaking Danish legislation against better knowledge, can that minister continue in the Prime Minister's government? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230525	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230526	Yeah, and it's exciting. I have, of course, referred to previous exams in my life, and we can then also resume some law exams. It is quite simple what kind of legislation we have in this country about ministerial responsibilities, etc. When these questions are asked at all now, it is because they have the speculative aspect that you kind of think about things differently, and then you can keep this warm. May I not just say, because that is what this is all about: I have full confidence in my Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs, in full confidence. I am aware that the Ombudsman has voiced a criticism of the way in which an area was administered, and I am also fully aware that the Minister has taken note of it and will be making himself available for consultation tomorrow. I think this is the right way to deal with this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230624	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230625	Now, I am not asking for a particular case, but for the very principle of whether a minister in the Prime Minister's Government who breaks the law of ministerial responsibility by openly breaking Danish legislation can be allowed to sit there. It is, of course, a question of principle which I do not think it is too much to ask the Prime Minister to give a clear answer to here from Parliament's platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230648	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230649	One might call it a question of principle, but one can also say that this is a question which I cannot in any way imagine going to relate to in the real world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230658	The next question is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230702	Thank you. The administrative court is, of course, what is at stake in this matter, to which the previous questioner also asked, and it makes it clear that we must not put a right over estimates. The Ombudsman's inquiry into the case showed that this was what the Minister for Foreign Affairs did. So I have to ask whether the Prime Minister recognises that this is the basic principle of administrative law not to put right estimates that were broken here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230736	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230737	Well, I'm completely familiar with the principle of administrative law that you can't estimate the rule, I'm perfectly clear about it. However, in relation to the matter which causes that question to be asked, I can only say that I have total, complete and complete confidence in my Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. Some questions have been raised based on a somewhat speculative article in Politiken. I am aware of a consultation on this tomorrow, when the Minister will make himself available. And I think, in all silence, that we should wait for that consultation before any further questions could be put to me on this matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230824	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230825	Yes, but now it was the Ombudsman's inquiry and the administrative court that I asked about, so I have to ask whether the Prime Minister agrees that if the Minister for Foreign Affairs was warned that this was the basic principle of administrative law not to put the right over estimates and that the Minister was deliberately breaking the law, then the Minister cannot stay at his post.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230852	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230853	Yes, but it's just another variety of the same question. And I can understand the interesting thing about asking all these whose and if questions, but I have a clear expectation that I will never get into a situation where I have to deal with these whoses. That is why I think it is right in this case to state that I have full confidence in the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration and that I am aware of the Ombudsman's statement, which the Minister has also taken full note of, as she naturally will be making herself available tomorrow for a consultation in which all questions relating to this matter can be asked. And then I both hope and believe that this case solves itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230941	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531230943	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister says that the Prime Minister will not deal with all these ifs. However, it is interesting to get the Prime Minister's answer as to whether a minister, if that minister has broken the law of ministerial responsibility, can then be a minister in the Prime Minister's government. I guess it's nothing if it's pretty simple to deal with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231005	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231007	It is a big thing, because that question is only relevant if it is so. It is fine if the opposition now wants to spend the rest of the hour at its disposal asking identical questions. I've given my answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231022	I find it boring that the Prime Minister will not answer such a question in principle. What the Prime Minister then also says is that the Minister will make himself available tomorrow in consultation. It has happened that the minister concerned, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration, will not reply to the written questions we have put before the conciliation tomorrow. Nor will the minister in question give an e-mail, despite the fact that it has been read to a fellow party member. Does the Prime Minister not think it would be reasonable for the committee to be able to answer the written questions put to the committee before the conciliation tomorrow? Isn't that normal practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231100	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231101	I have no deeper insight into what kind of written questions have been asked, what the nature of them is and what might be the reason why the Minister would rather answer orally. I don't have any deeper insight into it. I repeat myself with reference just to what I have said. And frankly, I have to say that I have been in this house long enough since 1994 that I know all those mechanisms with which to build up such ministerial storms. All the questions that are being asked here seem innocent and fundamental, and I must be able to answer them, and that is under seven built-in conditions, and that does not mean anything at all, probably. I know the mechanisms in full, and I'm not gonna do it. Things have to be done right. I have confidence in all my ministers, I also have confidence in the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration. That goes without saying. I am aware that the Ombudsman has expressed a criticism that the Minister has taken note of it immediately and without delay, and I am aware that there is consultation and I understand that there are a lot of questions. You'll have to get answers to them there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231215	The next question is Mr. Jacob Mark, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231218	Thank you. In fact, I think it is quite crazy that we have a Prime Minister who will not deal in principle with whether one can continue to be a minister in the Prime Minister's government if one has broken the law. This should be dealt with independently of specific cases. Can you continue as a government minister if you break the law of ministerial accountability, yes or no? I think that is a rather simple question. The next question I would like to ask is about the specific case of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We are dealing with a case in which the Ombudsman has made a violent criticism, in which the politician this evening writes that there has been a lot of consultation with the Ministry of Justice, where there is a leak that one has been warned that one will go out and break the law. So it is not just a certain situation, it is a very, very specific situation, and so I would like to ask: if it turns out that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has broken the law, then the Minister for Foreign Affairs can continue in Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen's government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231322	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231323	Yes, but the nature of the variation of the same theme. In other words, I have answered completely exhaustively in relation to what I have to say this evening, namely that I have full and complete confidence in the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs, who will be in consultation tomorrow, where all the questions can be asked. As I have said, I have been here long enough for me to know what kind of exercise you are in now, and frankly: I will not be here to answer all kinds of pre-conditional and speculative articles in the Politiken, which I have not even read because I have been sitting down here in the debate. So my recommendation must be that you come in for that consultation tomorrow and help clarify the matter. And then I hope and believe that, in the wake of this, we will be able to conclude what I have also concluded this evening: that there is no reason but to have full and complete confidence in the Minister for Integration and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231429	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231430	We can only be told that if we get information about what has happened. The Prime Minister says things have to be done properly, but to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Integration, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that she does not find the basis for handing over these internal documents. In other words, we cannot learn any more; we cannot know what has happened. So if the Prime Minister really wants it to go right, I would like to ask: will the Prime Minister give the guarantee that we can have the certainty that we can have these internal documents handed over so that we can be wiser so that things can be done properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231506	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231507	Now I understood from those questions that what was actually the underlying motivation was that all the laws of the country should be kept. After all, we have excellent legislation which also regulates the flow of documents, which must be rules on access to documents and other matters. If there is a majority in the Danish Parliament that wants other investigative steps to be taken, then we have legislation for it. So I will refer to that consultation tomorrow. Then I just have to say that we cannot have a system where you can just write articles with references to mails that you haven't read, seen, had access to, or what do I know they aren't included in the articles and then people have to prove their innocence afterwards with the reverse burden of proof. It can't work that way either. Earlier today, we have all claimed the value of living in a community governed by the rule of law. That is why I have to repeat that I am aware that some questions have been raised in this matter and they have been raised with the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration; consultations are being held tomorrow and I shall refer to it. Moreover, I have full and complete confidence in the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231621	The last question in this round is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231626	I was very pleased with the reply that the Prime Minister gave to Mr. Morten Østergaard with reference to page 15 of the 2025 plan. There is a figure about how to reach the government's so-called target of the 55,000 to 60,000, and I just want to dive into one of the individual objectives, which is the one that is about Action Area 4, and then you will reach an increase in the supply of work by 10,000 to 15,000 in view of the fact that you want to limit sick leave. Both the Prime Minister and I know that it is very difficult to get such concrete, measurable figures out of what can be translated into labour supply. Then there's the other part about relaxing the top tax. If you have such precise objectives as you have in that particular area of action, then I assume it must be because you have a fairly precise intention in that area. So can the Prime Minister here unveil how many of the 10,000 to 15,000 which are proposed in increased labour supply are to come from a relaxation of the top tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231736	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231737	I don't know why, sir. Benny Engelbrecht is taking me to income for us to agree that it is difficult to have precise measurements of sickness absence. I don't understand any of that, you can measure it. It is therefore both clear and logical that if sick leave falls and people are more of their working hours at work, then it is the supply of work. That is why it is an important area of action. There is then something that cannot be done, and I agree with that, and it is also entirely in line with old plans, i.e. among others. Those made by Secretary of State Bjarne Corydon, where there were some requests to find 12 billion. kr. The Social Democrats put forward financial proposals at the time, even when they were in opposition, and they have stopped doing so when they said they were saving 2 billion. kr. on less use of consultants or something like that. What you can say about that is that you don't spend the money until they get there. So a lot of political initiatives can be taken that aim to reduce the absence of sick people, but you will not be able to calculate in advance what effect they will have, and that is also why it is very clear from this publication that on page 16 the government has the method that our political initiatives fall into two categories: initiatives that can be taken in advance and where money can be used before it is actually obtained, and initiatives where you must have the courage to see that it works before you use it. That is how it is intended, and it does not differ from other medium-term economic plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231918	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531231919	The State Minster thus avoided answering my real question, namely the question of top tax, and how much it should be, and perhaps that is because if we turn over on page 83, we can see that it has been calculated a little in terms of what can be achieved in terms of job supply effect if we lower the top tax, that is to say 7 000 in terms of labour supply. Well, we have to assume that's because you've calculated roughly that it's about that. 7,000 as it should be of the 10,000 to 15,000, and that then shakes the Prime Minister's head off, but it has to be because the Prime Minister has a precise figure which he can replace. Furthermore, can the Prime Minister not just confirm that if you actually do what you write in as a calculation example in the 2025 plan, that is equivalent to lowering the top tax by 9 percentage points?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232008	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232009	Well, sir. Benny Engelbrecht can get a thousand math examples, and that's just asking questions, that is, if you lower the top tax with one and the other and something like that. But there is no justification for that. So before this Social Democratic propaganda machine starts again, I would just like to say that the government's proposal on tax has not yet been put forward on top and bottom. And all such things as twitter and videos and clips a la those I saw with today's birthday... congratulations on the 40th anniversary of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur... where you make random clips from the platform and rule out intercourses and stuff like that, you can pack up. The government will come up with a proposal after the summer break on what we want a tax package to look like, and until then we must arm ourselves with patience. We have an overall ambition which is expressed in these five areas of action, and in which tax is, moreover, a cross-cutting theme, because tax will make a positive contribution in relation to various of these objectives. How exactly it is weighed down will be seen as the government presents its concrete proposals. So why don't you take a summer vacation and get excited that when we meet again, it's one of the things we need to talk about, honey.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232141	The time has come and we will not make any more brief comments. So thank you to the Prime Minister. So I have taken note of the fact that there has been a single privateist, but before he has the floor I should like to ask whether anyone wishes to speak in the second round? That does not seem to be the case, and then I give the floor to the privateist, and that is Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232202	Thank you. I will be brief, because I am aware that we have had a long day. When I take the floor, it is for one reason, and that is that I think there has been a problem during this debate in the way that has been talked about and generalised about a particular minority, namely Roma. There have been several parties and rapporteurs who have spoken about, for example. The Roma problem, about the Roma, who are fucking up in the parks, about the Roma who commit crime. These are some generalisations about an ethnic group which may leave the impression that they are all criminals, homeless people or otherwise a nuisance to society, and I think we should try to avoid such generalisations here, not least here from the finest platform in the country. In fact, I would also like to congratulate the Prime Minister on his speech, almost at least to avoid it here. Sometimes, when speaking negatively, generalizing about a minority, one can take the so-called Jewish test. Mishagsyttinger from the Chamber Second Vice-President We have to keep the chamber tone here. ) These are the generalisations of a group, so that one can try to swap with Jewish people in some of the quotes from today's debate. The Jewish problem. No, right? Jew camps, traveling Jews. You can hear it, can't you? I do not at all disagree with the fact that there are some serious problems with people travelling here, often from some of the poorer countries of south-east Europe who sleep in parks and who, unfortunately, also commit too many crimes. This is a serious problem on which we must act. It originates from the EU rules on so-called free movement, which unfortunately have many drawbacks, both when it comes to social dumping and also when it comes to cross-border crime. We are also happy to take part in discussions on what can be done, both to prevent people from travelling around and committing crime, but also to help poor people, among other things. people with a Roma background, having a sustainable life in their own countries where, unfortunately, they are in many places subjected to persecution and discrimination. I would just like to appeal to the House, and it is not to moralize or to raise the pointers that, in the way we talk, we are aware of not hanging out an entire population, an entire minority. The Minister for Education and Research I do not know whether he is present in the Chamber now writes wisely today that persecution and discrimination against Roma are at the heart of European history, and we should bear that in mind. So my appeal is really just in all silence that I think we should try to avoid such generalisations and just pay attention to how we talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232511	There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232516	Thank you for the floor. Among other things, the Privatist says: we need to see if we can help these people to live sustainably in their own countries, such as Romania. That sounds exciting to me. Is this something that the privateist will unfold from the platform, so how the Folketing here will help these people who have travelled to Denmark without a residence basis to have a sustainable life in their own countries? I would also like to say that I believe that those of my colleagues who have said that there is a problem with groups sometimes made up of Roma in Copenhagen are quoting the priest who has the church at the Round Tower. He has told us that his employees need to be vaccinated for infectious hepatitis because every morning they have to pick up fecalities and other leftovers from these groups. I am very much in favour of a careful statement, but also of a specific and honest statement on the problems that exist. That is why I think the rapporteur should be careful to generalise his criticism. I think that is just as inconvenient as the people who just generalize to do just that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232615	Privatist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232616	Well, it's definitely not my purpose to generalize. There have been many fine speeches today. I have just noted that there have also been some speeches that I think have been on the wrong side, in other words in relation to this type of generalisation about a population group, many of which live a very common life in Denmark and form part of our society and labour market in the same way as other Danes. In relation to what we are going to do: my speech here is not so much about what needs to be done, but I can deal with what the questioner is asking. Well, we are, for example. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: is in Romania and Hungary and other countries where there is gross discrimination against the Roma minority. After all, there is a reason why many Roma leave their countries and are looking elsewhere, and that is why, through the international cooperation that we are involved in, we must do what we can to ensure that they get better conditions and that this discrimination stops. Is that an excuse to go out and commit crime? Of course it isn't, but when people travel around looking elsewhere to collect pant bottles, etc. in other countries, it is also about some of the conditions in the countries of origin. And, of course, we must try to help to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232730	Thank you. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232731	Unfortunately, one of the new business areas for some of these visiting gangs has also become to join forces and press the Danish homeless to pay 500 DKK. every night if they want to sleep at Nørreport Station, which is a particularly unforgivable form of personal crime. Well, I acknowledge the good intention of the privateist's statements. However, I think that when you say from the platform of the Folketing that we must take sustainable initiatives to help these people in their own countries, and then you do not want to be more specific about it, then perhaps I think it is a little bit sought.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232807	Privatist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232808	I do not know whether it is not concrete to say that we should use the international cooperation we have, just as it has been proposed to look at the residence directive and the rules of free movement in the European Union. Well, I think that is quite specific. We have some countries, especially Hungary and Romania, where there is discrimination against these minorities. And I notice that looking at it could be part of the solution. Is that a solution to crime being committed here and now? No, it is not, and so must we. This is a problem, and the points that the rapporteur has made are quite unacceptable. I don't think anyone in this Parliament can disagree with that. My appeal is just to be careful not to hang out an entire ethnic group or a whole minority because someone is committing crime.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232857	The next question is Mrs Josephine Fock, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232900	I'd like to thank the privateist. I think it is appropriate for him to point that out. There is no doubt that there are some problems in the places in question, but to hang out one ethnic group I think is good that the privateist goes up and points out to the Folketing is not in order. So there's a backup and a thank you from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232921	Privatist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232922	Thank you. There's not much to say about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232927	The next question is Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531232929	Thank you to the Prime Minister for pointing out that we have had a good debate today and that it has been kept in a good tone. I was thinking that the Prime Minister actually said from the platform, and that was kind of in contrast to this privateist's speech. If we then start from the Roma who are a problem, among other things. Here in the capital, and as the Mayor of Copenhagen has now asked the Danish Parliament to do something about what Mr. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten so that the Folketing has to deal with the completely current problem? If we are now to do something that works a little faster than having a residence directive amended under the auspices of the European Union, as I believe, Mr President. Pelle Dragsted agrees with me in well may have some long prospects, what should we actually do to meet that request so that we can deal with the challenges that Copenhageners, but indeed Danes in other cities, actually live with and with which they think they are really sorry to have to live with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233030	Privatist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233031	Well, I don't think anyone disagrees with the fact that there are some very serious problems. It is certainly also true that some of those who travel here have Roma backgrounds, and some have a different background. I am neither the legal rapporteur nor the social rapporteur nor anything else, so what needs to be done in concrete terms cannot be answered here. I understand that the government will come forward with some proposals, and of course we will look at them once they have been presented and take a position in our parliamentary group. But for good reasons we have not been able to do so yet. I have to answer on the whole, because I am not an expert in this area, and overall I think there are several things in it. In other words, there is a task to be done in the fight against crime, and the police must of course have the resources and tools to do so. Then there is one question: why is it these people are walking and coming to Denmark to collect bottles and other things? What are some conditions in their home countries that make this the case? And I think that is an important part of the solution that we should not forget. But I'm not an expert on how to do something about this. I came up here because I felt worried about something in the way that was spoken. And it wasn't really to moralize or lift point fingers I thought it was also a good debate. But it was just because I think it's important, when there's a slip in the language, to put your finger on it. It might as well have been me who had come to speak in a way that might not have been smart, and that is why I just think it is something we have a common task to pay attention to.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233206	Sir. Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233207	It has to be said that if it were not for moralizing or lifting fingers, I would say that then the privateist hid it quite well. It came to look like that, I'd say. I do not know if anyone feels offended; it may well be someone who feels affected, but there are probably also many of us who do not, because we actually think it is a big problem. Specifically, I would like to say that a proposal has been tabled this evening. This is a proposal which is not a new proposal, but which is something that has also been discussed in the past, but that is why it may well be that Mr. Pelle Dragsted nevertheless, as a quite experienced man in this house and not a novice when he goes to the platform, has an attitude on it, and then maybe he has a position on the proposal. The proposal should provide the police with a new tool to manage, if necessary, those who come here from abroad and who then sit and beg on the streets and alleys etc., and get them told that this is not how we do things in Denmark and that they can then come in and sit in a prison instead of bothering the Danes on the streets and alleys. Isn't that a very good suggestion?
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233308	Privatist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233309	I would like to start by saying that I am sorry if it was perceived as moralizing or as a raised index finger, because that was absolutely not the purpose. I mean, I actually think that how we talk about minorities and how we generalise is important. We have some extremely boring precedents in history, and language matters. And it's not an accusation or a pointy finger, it's just an appeal for attention to this. It is not a political issue; it is a question of having a common awareness of those things. In relation to the specific proposal that has been put forward, I would like to say that I have not seen it yet. I don't know what it contains, and I haven't discussed it with my parliamentary group, so what we're gonna do about it, I don't know. I can hear that there have been some concerns about whether this means that any homeless person who reaches out to the mug will be criminalised, and we will probably be sceptical about that. But I am not the legal rapporteur, I have not seen the proposal, and I would like to discuss it with my parliamentary group before I can take a position on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233411	There is no room for further brief remarks, so we thank the privateist. As no one else has asked for the floor, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233424	The proposals for adoption shall be put to the vote. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 123 by Kristian Thulesen Dahl (DF), Jakob Ellemann-Jensen (V), Christina Egelund (LA) and Mette Abildgaard (KF), and voting is possible. That concludes voting time. In favour 56 (DF, V, LA and KF), against 51 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 123 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 122 by Mr Mette Frederiksen (S), Mr Pernille Skipper (EL), Mr Rasmus Nordqvist (ALT) and Mr Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF), and proposals for adoption No. V 124 of Morten Østergaard (RV) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170531233525	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Thursday, June 1, 2017 at 1 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
