ParlaMint-DK_20170418130011	The meeting is open. It should be quiet in the Chamber by now. Thank you. I would remind you of the Bureau's decision that Members wishing to speak for a brief comment should press the floor button both before the first brief remark and before any follow-up brief remark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130056	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130115	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are four proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 70 of Bent Bøgsted (DF), Klaus Markussen (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Rasmus Jarlov (KF). The vote is over. In favour of 60 (DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 49 (S, EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 70 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 69 by Karsten Hønge (SF) and Leif Lahn Jensen (S), V 71 by Finn Sørensen (EL) and V 72 by Torsten Gejl (ALT) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130244	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130301	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1, adopted by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT and CF) on Amendment No 1. 2 and 3 adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of S and EL) or on Amendment No 3. 4, joined by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT and CF)? They are adopted. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 5 of a minority (EL and ALT). The vote is over. In favour of 15 (EL and ALT), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 39 (S, RV and SF). The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 6 of a minority (SF and RV). The vote is over. In favour of voting 15 (ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 39 (S and EL). The amendment has been rejected. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 7, adopted by a majority (Committee with the exception of S and EL) or on Amendment No 7. 8, elected by a majority (DF, V, LA, ALT and CF)? They are adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130530	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed. I'll just wait a minute until there's more quiet in the Chamber. And I'm gonna start over, so everybody's in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130644	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130702	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130720	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130754	The debate is open. This is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418130813	Thank you. This is part of the bet pool deal. One might then wonder what is happening to the rest of the agreement, but we do not take that too seriously today. Now we're taking the part we're ready to implement, and this is about citizen-led budgets. It is not a question of money being paid out to you as a citizen and thus being handed over to you, but it is money that you as a citizen can be allowed to manage if you are socially exposed. This is the first question that arises, i.e. about the 50,000 kroner. is some money you get in your hand, and if you can do with them whatever you want. A great many socially disadvantaged people have a very great desire for more attention to be paid to what they would like, what kind of action fits into their lives and what they see as the best way out of their social exposure. The meaning of the $50,000. is so that they can be disposed of over a calendar year. So how much money is it? I was just comparing the old free youth education that I myself worked on at the time, and it is actually a larger amount than a whole year's amount of free youth education at that time. That is to say, this gives a very good idea of what you can actually do from activities for an amount of DKK 50,000. It is actually quite a lot of work that can be done for that amount, and that means that the citizens get a lot of hands on what they have to do for themselves, so to speak. You have done the experiment in Aarhus, you have also worked with it both in England and Sweden and with great luck and I am personally quite excited to see how it comes off, i.e. whether this is actually something that works. Because it is a completely different approach to social policy, and it is of course extremely exciting that you gain greater ownership of what needs to be done, too, to make it easier to get out, for example. social vulnerability. I believe in that basically. So, of course, as part of the agreement, social democracy can support this, and we also look very much forward to following it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418131003	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418131013	After all, wage-pooling agreements each year contain many different areas of action, some are small, others are large. And some of the initiatives that we have been focusing on for a long time are, of course, some that may somehow also have such a bit of innovation in mind. And that group belongs to this proposal, which we now have to deal with at least within the borders of the Danish Empire, because there are, of course, some experiences from other countries, as we have just heard. But it is not certain that it will be the same in Denmark. There is no doubt that during the negotiations there was a great desire that one should try to look at how one could in another and perhaps new way help the vulnerable and vulnerable people that exist in Denmark. And what is being proposed with this proposal is that it should be put into effect, that citizens who have some particular social problems can, of course, also have a personal budget combined with some social support. And, of course, it will be very interesting to follow. As I said, this is an experimental scheme, and it is something that we will follow closely, as with everything else in the pool of rates. And when we get to the end of it in 2019, we can see how the effect has been, not only for the individual, but of course also socio-economically. When we were trying to formulate the text that was to be written for this proposal, it was of course important for us to look at something about the citizen's degree of self-determination, something about rehabilitation, and then, of course, what concerns the quality of life. And, of course, these are areas that we in the Danish People's Party are very concerned about looking at, in connection with the negotiation of the venture pool and the launching of new initiatives. What is so incredibly important is to include this social worker, because it is important that we know that this applies to some citizens who have some particular challenges. That is why it is important that there is some support in relation to the person we are talking about. It could be a homeless person, or it could be someone who's having some kind of abuse or some kind of mental illness. But what is of course also important to make clear is that it is necessary to look in advance at whether it is someone who can benefit from this offer, and then, of course, also helps to define the challenges that you are now facing, so that you help to set the targets for what you really need that money for. We have then in the text and it has also been written in the draft law • made some examples of what it is for some expenses you can get covered in relation to the social, for example. social activities, something about education and something about sport. These are all areas which we in the Danish People's Party can well see can help to increase the quality of life. We also heard just now that it is of course important to make it clear that it is not money that you are giving to the individual citizen in cash, but that it is the case that you are making this agreement with the social worker and then, of course, the municipality. And there, of course, we are concerned to see how many municipalities are bidding. We have written in the text that something with 3-4 municipalities can offer themselves in. It will be so exciting to see if that is the case. Then perhaps I also think it is important to make it clear that this is not a period that runs over all the years of wagering. This is 12 consecutive months that it's going to be about. And that means that in the circle we also get a better overview of whether or not it is something that has worked for the individual. Because it must be the goal that it is precisely something that has to improve everyday life, both in relation to e.g. to get into a job, in education, or to keep a home. So, of course, the Danish People's Party also supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418131346	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Holst, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418131355	Thank you for that, President. The Left is also part of the pool of rates settlement, which is why, of course, the Left also supports the proposal. We do, not only because we're part of the bet pool settlement, but because we think this is really, really good and something that needs to be tested. The two previous speakers have been very well down to the detail of what this is all about. For the Left, testing a method to ensure an increased degree of self-awareness by a socially exposed person in relation to self-determination, rehabilitation and quality of life is something that is important when it comes to seeing and rethinking the future welfare society's approach to socially vulnerable people, i.e. how we ensure that the help that the public has as a commitment to provide socially vulnerable persons not only becomes a help in wrapping them into cotton wool, but becomes a help in that the human being who receives it gets an experience of getting help for self-help. It is an experimental scheme that we look forward to following and I hope it will go well. I think that in the consultation note and in the comments received, which are generally positive, there are three elements, which are a little important, we are keeping an extra eye on because we have an interest in this being beneficial and going to live up to the desire and purpose of self-determination, rehabilitation and quality of life. Then there are also two elements which we would point out may be essential to the success of the experiment. It is a question of trust between the citizen and the employee. In other words, in the future, the municipalities are keen that it is not the employee who is at the heart of the citizen, but that it is the citizen who is at the heart of the employee and that there is trust between the citizen and the employee as a prerequisite for this to be a success. And that then you have the widest possible approach to the citizen's participation in relation to employees and partners. Another element is whether it should only be a system worker who is the citizen's focal point in getting help and support to have this increased self-determination, rehabilitation and quality of life, or whether civil society and other actors can also be involved in that process. I think it can be beneficial if you are open to the latter, and that is for the simple reason that many socially exposed people show that a number of studies do not go through the door of a system and of the social workers, whatever it may be, with the greatest confidence. And trust is the whole prerequisite for getting this dialogue and the cooperation and interaction so that the project "Citizen-controlled budgets" can be a success. The Left supports the coinage of the rate pool agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418131752	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418131805	Thank you. The content of the legislative proposal before us has already been explained. I would like to start by saying that the Enhedslisten believes that this is a positive proposal which we look forward to looking forward to unfolding in reality. It is one of the few suggestions that is based on the individual in the social system and • as I read it • has the idea that everyone has something to contribute with that everyone has something to do with, but that some just have some bigger obstacles to jump over than others have before they can just contribute. When we look at our employment system in broad terms, we see that it is an employment system, and this is very much true of our social system too, which is based on the fact that people are probably cheating on cash aid, that they are probably a little lazy, that they think it is nice to be long-term unemployed. So, people get whipped around and have to seek x number of jobs a week, and a large part of the time that social workers spend today in the Danish social system is used to control citizens and document that you are actually above them, instead of thinking that we all have something to contribute, and that there are just some who have to jump over some bigger obstacles than others to get there. That is why this is not only a good proposal on a concrete level, but also a proposal which actually contains the approach to social policy which I think is so important and which I think is lacking today. We have some questions on the proposal in relation to its definition. We also have some questions about getting a guarantee that this personal budget is not going to be used for things which, as such, should be covered by other parts of social legislation. In the media debate before, there has at least been mention of, for example: dental visits in connection with the correction of teeth. It should not be here in a personal budget you find the money for it. It is other parts of the Service Act that you have to grab when, of course, you have to help a citizen with it. So we will put some written questions on that and hopefully we will have some quite positive and reassuring answers so that we can vote in favour of the proposal. The last two and a half minutes of my time, I'm gonna spend harping over the wager pool that still exists and that's the basis for this experiment. If you listen to what the parties say, there should not be a majority in favour of having a pool agreement. If you are to believe what the parties in this Parliament are saying, there should be no basis for the fact that year after year there should be less regulation, that is. They steal money from people on transfer income. People's pensioners, the unemployed, all those you say you want to help, you take money to finance efforts for other of the most vulnerable in our society. This happens while inequality increases and the top of our society gets tax relief, inheritance tax rebates and everything else, and at the same time there are more and more poor people in Denmark. I think it is so violently provocative that we should keep standing in here and listening to the majority say that they are against the rate pool, but still retain it. If you really wanted to have a social effort that was financed fairly and if you really wanted to have a social effort that was not so uncertain, then you could take care of it. It is, after all, another reverse of the medal that it is so uncertain for all the social projects that receive money from the rate pool. They don't know if they've been bought or sold the following year. Then there are all sorts of more or less viable excuses, but the fact is that if you had to believe in the parties and the majority in here, there would not be a bet pool. Yet here again we are faced with an experimental system that we are setting in motion. I think it's going to be okay. I think this is going to be a brilliant project, at least I hope so. But the fact is that we will be standing here again in a year's time without knowing where the money is going to come from to get it going, because you are not willing to take the consequences of what you say is your attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418132300	Thank you. There are no comments. Next is Mrs. Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418132310	Thank you. As previous rapporteurs have pointed out, last year the rate pools agreed that a pool should be set aside for an experimental scheme of personalised citizen-led budgets for citizens with special problems. It could, for example, be done. be homelessness, drug abuse and/or mental disorders. God knows that I am generally not a great supporter of the rate pool. This whole way of spending money we in the Liberal Alliance are sceptical about; but sometimes it actually makes real sense, and that is when we can try out some new and exciting methods in the field of social policy. As far as I can understand, that's also the whole point of the wagering pool, and that's exactly what this project is supposed to do, namely to test something that we haven't tested in this way in Denmark before. In order to be able to do so, we need to create a legal basis for the municipalities to provide citizens with these personal budgets and there is a need to ensure that participating citizens are not disadvantaged by participation in the experiment in relation to their entitlement to cash benefits or deductions from public benefits. This is what this bill ensures, and that is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418132428	Thank you. I just want to say that you don't call on the gods. There is no need for them to know what we mean. It is more important that we do this here in Parliament. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418132443	Thank you so much. For the alternative today is a little party day. It is we who have brought the idea of citizen-controlled budgets for vulnerable Danes into the pool negotiations. And it is always nice to adopt your policy, because the truth is that when you are a small, green party in opposition, there can sometimes be a little distance between the snaps. It is difficult to adopt any of the concrete proposals from one's bumpy policy catalogue. Of course, we can raise some debates and agendas on levies on meat and 30 hours of working week and cash aid without counterclaims, and it is also important to have these issues matured towards a change of government. However, it is extremely motivating when something concrete can be adopted. Not least when it comes to getting exposed Danes on their feet and into the community. And that is not going to work without a majority, so I would like to express my warm thanks to all the parties in the pool of rates for helping to put this 10 million. kr. to a whole new type of bet. That may be the idea at first seemed a little wild, but it has created really, really much value for exposed people around Europe. Citizen-led budgets are about giving vulnerable Danes the opportunity and economy to solve their biggest problems first and thus get to thrive better and simply have the opportunity to have a better life. Specifically, the experimental scheme provides a budget of DKK 50,000. It guarantees the pay of an advanced social worker who can help the citizen to create a personal budget to finance the measures to help the citizen to solve the greatest problems first. The intention is to help citizens away from exposure, but it is extremely different what makes sense for the individual. The target group for the trial of personalised citizens' budgets is citizens with special social problems. It can be homelessness, drug abuse or mental illness, or a combination of social challenges, and since citizens are different, it is of course not worth treating them all equally, but instead one must support each individual in an individual effort. Some may need means of personal hygiene, such as: To get your teeth fixed, that is, when it comes to spending beyond what you can get. Others need to cover transport costs, costs for a psychologist, social activities, trips abroad or sports, even housing costs can be covered if they support the citizen's path to better well-being and quality of life. It is usually services that should be applied for and waited for, but with personal budgets we drop the bureaucracy and paragraphs and focus much more on direct support for citizens so that they can solve their problems immediately. In this context, it is crucial that the aid is tax-free and does not lead to a reduction in other benefits. After all, personal budgets for vulnerable citizens are not something the alternative has come up with. The idea comes from England, where all municipalities today have to work with personal budgets too vulnerable, and that decision is the result of a series of experiments. One of them came from London and involved 13 homeless people, some of whom had lived on the street for more than 40 years. Here a charitable organization simply gave worth of the 13 homeless £3,000 that they could spend as they wanted in cooperation with a social street worker. In fact, they had to decide for themselves whether to make use of the advice offered, and then there was only one requirement, namely that they should answer the question: What do you think is best for you? It turned out that none of them spent money on drugs, alcohol or gambling. They were quite careful with the money, and on average they had spent only £800 after a year. Yet the result was fantastic: after just 1 year, 11 of them had roofs over their heads, more were in education or in rehab, they visited their families, and what was probably most important was that they made plans for the future. They had their hopes back. The result tells of how conscious even the most vulnerable people are about their own lives and how they want to return to the community. And they tell how short the road can be from exposure to citizenship, if we simply involve the individual's expertise in his own life and show the necessary confidence in the individual citizen. I hope that municipalities in Denmark, and gladly in cooperation with civil society organisations, take on the task and show what good results it brings when people acquire ownership of their own lives. If we do this right, the next step may be that the risky person gets a legal right to an extra chance to get right. And who knows about the idea of trusting the individual citizen can spread, for example. to the employment system so that unemployed citizens can have the opportunity to show that they want to work. In the alternative, we have certainly not finished giving the responsibility for the Danes' lives back to the Danes. In fact, we have only just begun, and we are convinced that people, as they are most, live best, the more influence they have on their own lives. We would like to put an end to clientisation, impelling and peddling, so that public front workers have the opportunity to manage their own everyday lives and so that individual citizens have the opportunity to take their lives back from the system. We call it more society, less state. So it's probably no surprise to anyone that the alternative is supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133012	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133020	Thank you. Since Mrs Marianne Jelved is absent today, I have promised to read out the rapporteur's position. Last autumn, the pool parties adopted an attempt to target socially vulnerable citizens. They must be able to gain experience of a greater degree of self-determination, rehabilitation and quality of life by getting up to DKK 50,000 which they can budget for themselves in order to improve their own situation and their opportunities for a better life according to their own aspirations. It is citizens who are under the auspices of the Services Act. They may be homeless or abusers or suffer from a mental illness. They then get a personal guide, and they choose for themselves what they think they need to do to give them better opportunities. It may be repair of teeth or deposits on a dwelling. A total of 10 million has been set aside. kr. to a pool from which the municipalities can apply, and the law provides the legal basis for the experiment. The attempt does not alter the benefits the citizen otherwise receives, and the amount sought is tax-free. The trial period for each citizen is 12 months. The Radical Left believes that new ways of conducting social policy are needed. We support the bill and look forward to new experiences in social policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133134	The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133141	This is one of the legislative proposals designed to create the legal basis for an experimental scheme, which I am particularly looking forward to following, namely the implementation of the part of the rate pool, which is intended to allow 3-4 municipalities to experiment with personalised citizen-led budgets for people with special social problems. We already have experiments with something similar in Denmark. In Aarhus, social councilman Thomas Medom and a broad political majority of the city council started a similar project in the field of employment, and it actually looks promising. Inspired by initiatives in London, the longterm unemployed are given a personal budget which can be used for what the individual estimates could bring closer to employment or training. It may be a cell phone, it may be a trip to the hairdresser, it may be a bike, it may be psychological help or other. It is about showing confidence to the citizen, trusting that you are aware of what can strengthen and help them, that you will be able to find your own way by hand and identify the barriers and challenges that need to be overcome and eliminated, that you are helping to find solutions, rather than being locked down in impotence and dependence. With the funds from the rate pool and this law home, several municipalities can try something similar. The 3-4 municipalities seeking the pool will have to describe the target group within the adult regulations of the Services Act and say how they will benefit from the offer of personalised civilised budgets. A social worker must be associated with whom the citizen has confidence and who can support the citizen in drawing up his plan, and the municipality must describe how cooperation with other forms of assistance should be conducted. It is essential that the extra bag of money that the citizen is given the opportunity to dispose of should not be set off against other benefits. In the SF we warmly support the experiment and look forward to seeing what learning it can bring, and also to seeing if there is a need for changes in the way we generally organise welfare so that the citizen becomes active participant and achieves greater self-determination in his life.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133358	Thank you. Then it's mr. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133404	Thank you. The draft law we are discussing here, L 176, is, after all, a follow-up to the rate pool agreement. The fact that we have the bet pool means that we can do some tests, among other things. in this area, where 10 million will be allocated. kr. over 4 years. This may help to give a picture of whether, in this case, the self-determination of citizens has some time on earth in the future. Trust in the individual must in any case be one of the most important things in all areas, but especially in this area. This is because for the citizens who can come under this scheme, it's allerelles most important that they feel ownership of what they're doing. If we take socially vulnerable citizens, I would say that it will probably not be those with the greatest problems that become self-governing in this area. I heard in the press this morning that there are more bids at which level you should be. At any rate, you should be able to profit from this benefit, which is tax-free and of DKK 50,000. more than 12 months. What I am hoping for is that it may help to bring some citizens out of an evil spiral. It can be the entrance to education, it can be the entrance to a home. The citizen-led scheme means that if the citizen takes care of this himself and thinks that $50,000. We have the hope that, together with the caseworker, they will feel such ownership of it, that this will be a success, and that we will have some who will come out on the other side, so that the $50,000. is given really, really good out. That is why the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133614	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133625	Thank you, President, and thank you for the good and positive reception given to the draft law. And thank you for the debate. I'd love to sign for that. The overall aim of the draft law is to ensure that municipalities participating in experiments on personalised citizens' budgets for socially disadvantaged citizens can offer citizens with special social problems a personal budget combined with social support. And I will start with some of what was said along the way. Mrs Karin Nødgaard from DF says that this is a new way of helping vulnerable and vulnerable citizens and that, of course, it is also important that we follow the impact. I fully agree with that. Then it is said by the Left that several of the rapporteur's spokesmen also revolved around the matter by Mr Gundelach. Carl Holst, that it is important to ensure that citizens have real participation. I think this is essential, because this proposal helps to enable the individual to actively change his life situation. If you do not feel you have that participation, I think we will see that it will be difficult to get this right. But that is the intention, and it has also been described in the draft law. Enhedslisten and SF revolve around one of the same things, namely that it should not replace other services. I fully agree with that, and it is also enshrined in Paragraph 8 (1). 2. Last but not least, I think the alternative's speech was fantastic. I think it's quite true that it's a little party day for the alternative now to get word on this. With the great visions that lie ahead, we can look forward to the forthcoming negotiations in this area. Mrs Trine Torp also mentions this point: it is important for the citizens themselves to help find solutions rather than being locked down. I share that, too. I share many of the comments that have been made and, of course, I also make myself available to answer any questions that the committee may have during the committee's reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133828	Thank you. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133839	The debate is open, and this is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418133858	Within the EU system, there is a concept of technical barriers to trade. I spent a lot of time at some point in my life, it's very, very nerdy. But this bill should actually be referred to as technical social barriers, because it is somewhat similar in nature. And I believe that, like those in the EU system, they have tried to eliminate all technical barriers to trade and, by the way, they have not been dealt with for any other reason at all. They could be blamed for that, so we should sometimes do a little the same with social legislation, namely that without scoting at anything else, we simply removed the barriers that exist in order to make a social effort. This is actually a very good example of it, because it is about something as dry as reimbursement between municipalities. If, in the first place, one municipality has placed a young person in another municipality, who will pay when the young person becomes so young that he or she grows up? And it can then lie and fight with each other about whether it is the municipality that first placed the young person or whether it is the municipality in which the young person has been placed and in which the young person then lives at the age of 18. They are having a good time in the municipalities, and in the middle of that, of course, some young people are getting into trouble and need an effort that will not be allocated to them. So fundamentally, this bill means that it is the municipality that originally placed the young person, who is also going to pay and thus reimburse the municipality in which the young person lives, when the young person at some point turns 18 years of age and must have what we call post-protection. And the defense is that instead of letting go of the young person at the age of 18, we make sure that, as a society, we actually go in and interfere with the young person in those really, really difficult years in the transition to becoming an adult. When you deal with social policy, you will know that sometimes, as a society, we spend an incredible amount of effort and luck for it to get help and support children and young people who have had a difficult way of life, but when they are 18 years old, it is as if they are being sucked into such a black hole. And that is not because you might as well have left out the effort, because it has helped in the years it has helped, but it can go downhill, incredibly fast, when it is that the system leaves its roof when the young person turns 18 years old. So this transition to adulthood is incredibly important, and it's about getting rid of all these barriers, among other things. the municipalities in between, which means that young people are not caught. Yes, it is a really, really technical legislative proposal, but nevertheless a very important legislative proposal, and that is why the Social Democratic Party supports it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134122	Thank you. Mrs Karin Nødgaard, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134132	The aim of the proposal, which we are discussing here, is to restore the former legal situation so that it is clear from now on that there will be a right to inter-municipal reimbursement from the municipality of the municipality in which the post-marital protection takes place. The reason is, of course, as we have just heard, and it is very technical that the Ankestyrelsen has made a decision in principle which means that there is no right to reimbursement. This has been done because the Ankestyrelsen has considered that the wording of the text of the law does not allow it to require the municipality to pay the reimbursement. And now this access will be restored, so that clear rules for repayment will also be created, including the refund paid. I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the bill, because that means precisely that it is now ensured that the municipalities do not go and disagree on who should actually pay for this defence. After all, protection is very important in relation to these vulnerable young people who are suddenly 18 years old. What, then, must happen, and what can be done by society to support them? And there's this very defense for the 18-22-year-olds. In the Danish People's Party, we clearly believe that it is important to ensure that there is a good transition from being a child and a young person to growing up and that it should not be blocked by some disputes about the payment of a difference between municipalities. So hopefully this will now be corrected. Of course, the bill has to go through this road with consideration in the Folketing etc. That is very good, but we hope that there will now be no further barriers to young people who are being protected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134307	Thank you. Sir. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134315	Thank you for that, President. It is, as has been said, on the basis of a decision in principle by the Ankestyrelsen that a situation arose which was considered inappropriate, namely that an earlier practice of visiting a young person by the municipality did not have the obligation to defend itself. That will be corrected. This is not new, it is a retention of past practice, but in order to maintain the practice so far, it has been necessary to make this bill in relation to the post-war protection for 18-22-year-olds. It is a draft law that has been negotiated quickly; a draft law that rarely has a content of support and only support. I do not think I have been able to find a single negative sentence in all the consultation contributions, and I think that is an expression of the fact that no one has an interest in the decision of principle by the Ankestyrelsen being forward-looking, but also in what could also be a consequence of the decision of principle, namely that three years later, expenses could be reimbursed. Both the Minister and the Ministry have negotiated quickly and they have had a good hand in meeting the challenges posed by the new decision of principle. They deserve praise for that. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134509	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134520	Thank you. The Enhedslisten can also only join the ranks of rapporteurs who support the bill, and I would also like to sign the praise which Mr. Carl Holst, come with me. It's quick action in those circles called the due diligence shown here. This is how everyone really saw it, but the text of the law was not like that when the Ankestyrelsens took out the great magnification. And then things have to be straightened out, and I think they will be with this bill. Then we can also say that we are not normally in favour of creating legislation with retroactive effect, and that is perhaps not the word we are going to use here. That is what is happening in practice. And I would just like to say that it is extremely elegant if we are finally to do something with retroactive effect, namely to make a bill which neutralizes the effect of the decision of the Ankestyrelsen, also backwards. So we can only support that. Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil-Theil then said some very important things about the unfortunate situation that may arise when the citizen turns 18, when the public is not as committed as it is to the age of 18. We just have to face up to the fact that this is a barrier that we will have removed so that the municipalities can act wisely on it, and therefore we can only be satisfied with it. But that doesn't solve the whole problem. Therefore, I would just like to repeat once again a request and a request or a proposal... call it what you want, according to temperament... that the young people will have a right to have this offer of protection. However, it would increase the likelihood that we did not lose any young people on the floor as a result of the rules that apply today. But it is also clear that this is not exactly what this bill is about. It would have been nice if it had been about that, and then we would have been really happy. It does not, but it should not stand in the way of us supporting an excellent legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134731	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134819	We think it is very sensible to continue the practice so far and, of course, we support the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134828	Thank you. Then the next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134844	Thank you. In the absence of rapporteur Mrs Marianne Jelved, I would like to explain the Radical Left's position on the proposal. Due to the decision in principle of the Ankestyrelsen at the end of 2016 on reimbursement of the costs of protection for young people placed in care, the Minister for Social Affairs has made this relevant proposal. It is clear from the practice in force until now that a young person placed by the municipality a in municipality b must have protection before the age of eighteen and now at 18 and be able to claim reimbursement from the municipality a. This means that the current practice can continue following the clarification of the legal situation requested by this draft law. This is supported by the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134927	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Trine Torp, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418134932	Thank you. I can just say that the alternative rapporteur had some doubts as to whether he could get in and present the alternative's position, so I have promised to speak on behalf of the alternative as well. After all, this is a legislative proposal which shows how important it is when we make legislation that we are also very precise. Oh, my God, there can be a lot of mess if we aren't. Then it's back and forth between Ankestyrelsen and us. It is quite clear that no one disagrees with the intention of the law, but when it comes down on paper and in text, it can be interpreted differently. So, of course, we support the bill. For the uncertainty and the need for clarification brought about by the decision in principle by the Ankestyrelsen, we must, of course, do something about it. And from here, thank you very much for reacting quickly. For it is in fact a lot of money that is at stake in the municipalities, and it can actually mean a lot to a municipality if you suddenly get such a receipt you didn't just expect. After all, the most important thing is that children and young people placed in care have the continuity needed in their placement, but also in their care. It should not therefore be disturbed by the inter-communal fights about who should pay for the effort. When it comes to the transition of young people to adulthood, the opportunities for support, residence and education may well lie in a municipality other than the municipality which has placed the young person. However, municipalities should not benefit from establishing post-protection services in municipalities other than their own. Therefore, it should also be the municipality's plea that has to pay for the defence. So we support the bill, and so does the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135122	Thank you. Sir. Orla Østerby, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135131	I think what's important in this is the decision of the Ankestyrelsen. Thus, the draft law does not concern the right of young people to protection under the Service Act, but is merely a question of which municipality is to pay under the post-protection scheme. There we have had a tradition that whoever orders the music also pays. This means, of course, that the decision of the Ankestyrelsen is neutralized in L 177, and in reality it is a correction of a technical error which has so far been a guideline for decisions in this area. So with this, you stick to the fact that it is the municipality that places the young person who also pays, and it supports the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135229	Thank you. Then it's the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135240	Thank you, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for receiving the bill. The aim is, of course, to restore rapidly the legal situation regarding post-protection and inter-municipal reimbursement, which was perceived as applicable law, until practice was changed in December 2016. There has also been a desire for the change proposed here from several sides, including from KL and a large number of municipalities. I shall, of course, be available to answer any questions which the committee may wish to clarify during the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135312	No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135328	There is no minister. There is not really anyone here who should be present. Then we postpone the sitting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135649	The debate is open. First of all, Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418135706	L 181 sets up an investment framework for the self-employment sector under the Ministry of Education and Research. This is a principle we know from large parts of the public sector. This ensures that we spend the money that it has been agreed to spend. It is always a good thing that there is agreement. It's really healthy, and it's sustainable. The investments of the Selvey area are included in the target figures of the Budget Act, but unlike other major public areas, they are not subject to real expenditure policy management. With the introduction of the investment framework for the ownership sector, which the draft law proposes, it is being amended. The investment framework provides for an overall economic framework for investments in the sector to be agreed under the Finance Act. This also means that, at the same time, if the overall investment framework for the sector is exceeded, investments can be adjusted, delayed or stopped. We also know this from the rest of the municipal area. This is quite reasonable at first sight, because it means keeping the balances between the many areas of the state budget. Investment frameworks do not alter the institutions' right of disposal, and that is also a key point. The institutions must continue to have a good framework for developing and investing in their buildings and also in teaching facilities. Social democracy attaches great importance to this. We also support the right of disposal. This is still the case with the draft law. There is not really going to be any detail as to where the individual problems of possible budget overruns are in the legislative proposal itself. This is one of the things that the Social Democratic Party hopes that through the work of the committee we can get a little more out of the drill. It is suggested that if one area uses more than one area, then it does not make sense for other areas to stand up for. This is also the case today with the self-employed under the Ministry of Education and Research, if more money is spent than has been planned. It should be noted that the draft law indicates that any adjustment, cancellation or cessation of an investment will take place after dialogue with the institutions to ensure that it is the wisest possible decisions that are actually taken in terms of bureaucracy, waste of resources and the needs of the institutions. That's smart, too. Social democracy backs the fact that we are providing a framework which means that we are getting our hands on the expenditure lines which relate to exactly the self-serving form of financing that we are talking about here. There is no doubt that responsible financial management is a very important part of the social democratic compass. The draft law envisages responsibility in the field of self-determination under the Ministry of Education and Research, and on this basis the Social Democratic Party supports the proposal. In the course of the committee's work, however, we will work to clarify the precise implementation, particularly in order to ensure that, in a possible situation where the investment framework is exceeded, we avoid inappropriate bureaucracy and waste of resources. There are several questions which I hope will be answered through the work of the committee, and we look forward to both clarifying and responding to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140036	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140046	Thank you. This bill is the implementation of an agreement in the Finance Act that educational institutions should also be subject to a general investment framework, as we know it in all other areas of public capital investment. In the broad picture, it is logical and reasonable that all areas which form part of the public budget should also be subject to the same overall framework. I find it difficult to argue that some areas should be excluded. That, of course, gives some difficult priorities already today. It may be difficult to understand that we reach, for example, when I... would like to have more highway or railroad on Funen, cannot do so until 2020 because we are building super hospitals. Then you might wonder why it has to be mixed together. It is also the case that if I want to renovate all our schools in my municipality and we may even have money to do so, we cannot necessarily do so because we are limited by the overall framework for construction in the municipalities. At the same time, however, it is quite reasonable in the eyes of the DF that, since it is all our public money and we have an overall linguist that we must all contribute to sustaining, it is difficult to argue for anything other than that all areas should be included. At the same time, of course, it is also important that the framework is large enough to ensure necessary investment in buildings and equipment. It is important, for example, that we do so. at a university do not have to say no to large donations, because it means that you have to use construction crowns on a new building. In the Danish People's Party we think it is very important that the implementation of this legislation is agreed, as is also described in a dialogue with managements and institutions. It is important that bureaucratic, affordable systems are put in place, and it should be possible for them to be systems that correspond to what the institutions still have to have. I cannot imagine that there will be no forward-looking budgets for its construction plans over the next four years as part of local governance, because we need this in local planning. So when you say in the consultation answers that this can be a great and bureaucratic work, I am quite sure that in the agreement you will now be able to make, you will ensure that it is of course the budgets and the budget follow-ups that you still need locally to manage what is used in relation to the required reporting. I also see it as essential that, in the context of the agreement, it has been said that this is not, of course, intended to be a tool for cutting budgets, but that it is intended that the framework should broadly correspond to the expected construction budget for all the institutions. So I look forward to following the work on the implementation of the agreements and the procedure for handling the law, and with these words, Dansk Folkeparti can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140326	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Engel-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140333	Thank you for the floor, President. In the Left, we are very aware of the free choice. When you live in a community, it is also often desirable for all parties to have free elections within a common framework, especially in the field of financial investment of public funds. The legislative proposal we are discussing today is an expiry of budgetary legislation, and it makes sense, of course, that there is also a follow-up budgetary control in the field of investment in education. Just as my two colleagues have mentioned it from the platform, I am also concerned that any priority given to more motorway somewhere or another could go beyond some of the educational institutions responsible for investing funds. But I have also been assured that because of the way in which the draft law has been prepared and, moreover, will give priority to budgetary control, we can resolve this jointly, especially because there are a number of special circumstances in the field of education in relation to the fact that many investments have been financed by, among others, the European Investment Bank. funds in a form in which the universities are asked to co-finance part of something, and then the funds come privately with the rest of the money. Looking back over the last 3-4 years, it can be seen that the overall level of investment in the university, professional and professional academy sectors amounts to between 4% and 6%. of the total investment framework of the State. If we expect this to be the case in the future, there will be no problem of relative priority. That is what has been enlightened to me by the Ministry, officials and so on. etc. However, I also think that we owe it to us to listen to the worried voices from the sector and to reassure them that there is no immediate cause for concern that significant investments should be postponed to slow down Danish research, slow down Danish education or slow down Danish academics in general. With those words, of course, I must inform you that the Left supports the bill. We look forward to a good and constructive debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140538	Thank you, sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140549	The Minister may require a self-owned institution to adapt, postpone or stop investment if the total investment in the self-employed sector exceeds a multiannual framework laid down by the Finance Act. If it were a legislative proposal which intended to improve coordination of the development of higher education, it could be a sensible point of reference. Competition between the self-serving institutions may lead to inappropriate arrangements, but that is not the intention, as I read the draft law. The intention is for an EU-enforced budget law to be reduced over higher education. It is also interesting that no one has asked for this bill. Investment in higher education already represents a few percent, as the previous rapporteur also mentioned. It may well be that the investments in higher education are included in the targets of the Budget Act, but the Folketing can only decide that they need not do so. We can take them out of the target figures so that they do not affect the other investments in other areas, for example. highways and hospitals. The bill gives us a first-come, first-served principle or a situation in which, after starting a construction project, an institution can be asked by the Minister to stop the project or maybe only build half or do something else. This means that it will be quite difficult for institutions to make long-term plans, and those who, like thinking a little longer-term, both in terms of what they want to build and how they want to develop the institution may be punished compared to others who may have a more impulsive approach to what needs to be built or expanded. The alternative for them to be able to build on their own will, as they are doing now, is that we may have an upsurge of PPP, in other words public-private partnership, in which, as we have seen in the regions, the institution converts capital expenditure into operating expenditure, so that some extra profit can be made for financial capital. We can also see the possibility for us that, if that is the case, for example. the sector needs to be expanded to 4 billion. kr., then you can just go in through the Finance Act and say that you reduce by 2 billion. kr., after which we will actually have a severe deterioration in the area. There's no need for that bill. If, as I said, it is a problem that education is included in the overall statistical inventory, we can just take it out. The Folketing can decide that. That does not, of course, change the fact that we will also have the budget law hanging over our heads afterwards and that in the Enhedslisten, and perhaps others too, we will, of course, still be fighting a battle against the unfair ties that that budget law lays on us and which we also think should be broken. We don't think anyone asked for this bill. We don't think there's any need for this bill. We shall not vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140914	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418140922	Thank you. Although it is difficult to draw a whole sharp line, I would say that some legislative proposals in this area have a definite educational policy objective, while others have a more administrative nature. And Bill No. L 181 clearly belongs in the group of administrative bills because it incorporates the university investment framework under the Budget Act. So the question of what to think basically about the bill depends on what you think about the budget law. There I have the impression that, contrary to the previous rapporteurs, it is an incredibly blessed law because it, among other things, is. has brought the economy of the municipalities under control and, in general, the public economy. So things that strengthen the budget law are generally good initiatives. Then there are some objections that have been raised in the hearings. The former rapporteurs from the Social Democratic Party, the Left and the Danish People's Party have mentioned this. I agree that you can have these concerns, but at the same time I also hear that there is a very broad will to take these concerns seriously and to ensure that there is no inappropriate investment race or that good projects in which you have a private fund inside the funding cannot come into being. So that's why LA supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418141103	Thank you. Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418141113	Thank you. I shall start by saying that the alternative cannot support the draft law as it stands right now. I'm hearing as sir. Henrik Dahl also just mentioned, many of the same critical voices in relation to the attention points that have emerged in the consultation responses and which particularly concern universities' ability to cooperate with external donors, for their ability to receive donations and in relation to commitment to, among others. new buildings and investment in equipment, etc. It is absolutely essential that we do not come from the Danish Parliament to adopt a bill restricting universities' opportunities to develop their cooperation to contribute new knowledge, new research, new technology, new buildings. If it is the case that during the process of this bill it turns out that we can incorporate wordings that suggest that it will not be an option at all that the risk exists, then we can try to look at it. It can be said that the Minister has at least received his case with the hearings, because there are not very many friendly consultation answers that support the draft law. This is, of course, understandable, because there are many institutional interests at stake by universities. But we also have a long tradition of university autonomy in Denmark, and it is extremely important that we keep it and that we do not compromise it in any way whatsoever. That is why I think it is right, right and important that we listen to the answers to the hearings. There is a risk that if this proposal is adopted, as it looks right now, and as I read it, institutions that can afford to invest cannot do so because the overall investment framework has already been used up, and then universities that may want to go to an elite university level cannot have the opportunity to do so because they simply cannot use the funds they might have saved because of an investment framework. And it will stand in the way of this: there will be an opportunity to conclude agreements to receive external grants and donations for new construction if universities cannot commit themselves to the cofinancing that is quite normal today. So there are crucial elements in the draft law that we are very critical of. We would very much like to take part in the committee's work in examining whether some of the criticisms that have been made can be met. As it looks right now, we cannot support the bill. It's also about us seeing a tendency towards increased central governance of universities in this bill, and we are basically and in principle opposed to that in the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418141350	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418141404	Thank you. Publicly funded educational institutions must have a transparent and transparent economy. It is all the taxpayers' money that is spent on giving many more people more opportunities. So it makes sense that educational institutions should report planned capital investments so that we, who are responsible for the state economy, have a comprehensive and long-term overview. We support this in the Radical Left. However, as several rapporteurs have said, the devil is in the detail here. On the one hand, we cannot support the fact that the institutions have autonomy and, on the other hand, manage them zealously and in detail in relation to investments in new laboratories, better classrooms and modern equipment, all of which are something we want because it helps to improve the quality of education. That is why we are somewhat critical in the Radical Left, but would like to continue to discuss how we can improve this bill. Danish Universities have proposed a large number of very concrete changes if the law is passed. We very much hope that the Minister will listen to them. I think that they are both concrete and sensible and still within the framework of responsible financial management, that is to say that such an investment framework should cover the ordinary operation here, but that external public and private funds and donations should not be included and that the amount should, in general terms, be higher so that it should not be zealously less acquisitions for new laboratories that need to be turned upside down. And certain types of investment in technology and research equipment should also be excluded. The universities then have a fairly relevant point on how the investments in the universities covered by the SEA scheme are included. I do not think I have a clear picture of this either, and then there is the bureaucracy in it: how often should reports and such things be reported? I think that is quite relevant and unsolicited remarks, quite the contrary, and we very much hope that we will be able to look at them during the committee procedure. So we will be positive if these changes can be met, but overall we have not taken a final position on the legislative proposal as it stands. Because we think there is a need for a little more flexibility and at least clarity about the degree of flexibility, or vice versa how rigid this investment framework should be lowered over universities and higher education institutions in this context. But, of course, we support a general overview of the public economy, including the educational institutions, which fill an increasing part of our public economy. They do, of course, because more and more people are training, and that is something we support in general and should not harm educational institutions as long as it is in the right direction. So I hope we can have a more thorough discussion. Perhaps the Minister can answer some of the specific questions now, but otherwise we will take them in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418141831	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418141845	As has already been said, this draft law introduces an investment framework in the areas of state ownership, in other words in our own programmes. The proposal establishes the legal basis for the Minister to instruct training institutions to adapt, postpone or stop planned investments. The bill also means that, at the request of the Minister, the institutions must report investment budgets and accounting figures. This is the kind of bill that you just have to read through a few times before you finally take a position on it. This can also be heard from the speeches that have been made today and from the desire to continue the debate in committee, but I would like to say what I think about it from the outset. I think that timely and intelligent financial management is important. We have also helped to ensure this in the SF from the time we were in government, but I can be in doubt whether this is an intelligent financial management. I've taken notes from the hearings. As has also been said, they contain a number of critical remarks and a number of concerns that I think we need to continue working on. The first is that many of the consultation parties are simply afraid that this will prevent new buildings and upgrades to our existing buildings, because one is afraid that as an educational institution one cannot get the same private donations because one cannot guarantee co-financing. This is quite serious because a large part of the funding that is taking place today comes in this way, and we often talk about making the most of the money. And we will not have that if we prevent private donations from becoming part of what is to be an investment in our education in the future. So how do you prevent that scenario? I think all the parties have an interest in that. Does this mean that there should be less investment? Some of the consultation parties are afraid that the amount is simply too low. Is it smart for our country to invest less in education? That's one of the things I'd like to investigate. Then there is the whole amount of bureaucracy in the proposal. You actually write it yourself, and it's rare that I've seen it in legislative proposals. In fact, under economic consequences for the educational institutions and also for the state, it is clear that this will lead to greater administrative burdens, and it is so clearly against the common intentions of the parties in this House to reduce bureaucracy. Moreover, it was also part of the argument for the great savings in education, namely that we could reduce the bureaucracy out there and find the money in that way. After all, it is difficult to impose new administrative burdens on them. I think you have to look at that. It is also a problem that energy-saving measures count, because I fear that this will mean that when you have to choose what to build, what to prioritise, it is the energy-saving measures that will be sorted out. It is both stupidly economical because it is a good investment to make energy-saving measures, and it is also stupidly socio-economic. Then there is the fact that the educational institutions are opposed to this. This does not in itself mean that we should vote against it, but it should at least make an alarm bell ring when all the universities, all the educational institutions, all the players almost advise not to go along with this proposal. DTU even writes that this will affect technical research and the possibilities for it and mean fewer trained engineers in the future. I think it should be examined why they take the view that there is a broad political desire for more technical research. Then there are some who write, and I think this is actually a little interesting, that the proposal is simply based on a false premise that there is a need for a safeguard against unfunded investment. But so, there have been such, and to what extent has there been such? After all, this has been happening for several years, including under the Budget Act. Now all of a sudden it's needed. Well, what's the burning platform? What is the reason why you have to do this all of a sudden, other than that some in the Ministry of Finance think it's a good idea? Finally, I would just like to say that I can see, as the rapporteur of the Radicals also mentioned, that Danske Universiteter has tabled a number of amendments and indeed also some amendments which I think are quite pragmatic and sensible. And we would like to continue working on whether we could get some of them through, and if you can, it may be that we want to be in a final legislative proposal, because of course there needs to be proper financial management. If you can't do that, and if you just run through this, we won't be able to back the bill that lies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142319	Thank you to the rapporteur. The last one before the Minister is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142329	Thank you. Conservatives can support the bill, which means that we ensure better and forward-looking governance and cross-cutting priorities for public investment. We can therefore support the introduction of a multiannual investment framework for investments by state-funded self-owned educational institutions from 2018 onwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142357	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142409	Thank you, President. First of all, I regret the fact that I held both the Folketing and the rapporteurs aside. We now had more than a talk, but of course you have to be in the Chamber when your case begins. So I'm sorry. So to the point. The Budget Act requires us to set a fixed upper limit on the overall public finances of the state, municipalities and regions, and that framework must not be exceeded. The self-employed educational establishments are now free to use grants, income and capital as part of their activities. The investments of the institutions form part of total public investment, but up to now the State has not been able to make a full political priority, since the State-funded self-employed educational institutions, unlike other major public areas, are not subject to overall priority. With the proposal to set up an investment framework for all State-funded educational institutions, we will be able to regulate investment in the whole field of education on an equal footing with other areas. As Mr. Jacob Mark said it: I think it is more bureaucracy. The proposal provides for an investment framework to be established in the future on the basis of annual financial laws which provide for an overall annual level of investment for the sector. The proposal establishes a legal basis for requiring educational establishments to adapt, postpone or stop planned investments if the total budgeted investment in this area exceeds the framework set aside. In other words, we will be able to prioritise public investment across the board in future. We in the government are aware that the education sector also needs to be able to plan and budget long-term. It is against this background that, following the proposal, we will collect multiannual budgets twice a year in order to be able to monitor developments closely and adjust budgets in good time. With these words, I should like to express my thanks for the debate and I look forward to answering both questions during the committee procedure and further consideration at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142608	There is just one brief comment from Mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142613	Thank you. As the Minister has probably also listened to some of the rapporteur's speeches and, as the Minister himself has also noted, there are a number of critical consultation responses and concerns among the actors out there. Danske Universiteter has tabled a number of specific amendments. Is this something that the Minister could help to look at in the committee process and possibly help to change in the legislative proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142635	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142636	I'm always available to talk to. I hope so too, sir. Jacob Mark has experienced. However, it is clear that this proposal has been put forward on the basis of a financial agreement, and of course the political process will also bear that in mind.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142649	Thank you. Then I just want to say again... we're gonna get a rehab... that you just have to remember to press, even when it's question two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142657	Thank you. I am particularly concerned about the part about the possibility of obtaining private donations in the future when you cannot guarantee cofinancing yourself. That is also what a number of the consultation answers are going on. What does the Minister think about that? Does the Minister think that a solution could be found so that the educational institutions can provide a guarantee of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142723	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142724	Now Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen said this about private donations being reckoned with. I think it was a statement because they don't. They don't count in this framework, but it's clear that the state contribution does. And that's how I really understood it. We are looking for this challenge from the multiannual perspective. Because this is not intended to prevent the institutions from swinging up, and I would like to say vital investments for Danish research, which, among other things, is a good thing. The funds are doing it. What it is all about is, in relation to the budget law, getting a framework for the state economy, the municipal economy, etc., as the rapporteurs have also said, but it must not and must not be unnecessarily burdensome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142813	Thank you. Then no one else has asked for the floor. The debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142825	The debate is open. Mrs. Annette Lind, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418142850	Thank you. There's a coincidence between this bill and the bill we've just dealt with. This bill is about youth education and general adult education. With the bill, we are introducing an investment framework for state ownership from 2018. Unlike other parts of the ownership area, this is not really covered by expenditure policy management or priorities. Young people's training courses are free to dispose of their financial resources. This is part of the self-construction. The investments of the Selvey area are included in the target figures of the Budget Act; unlike other major public areas, they are not subject to real expenditure policy management. This bill makes it possible to avoid a situation where investment is forced to stop in other public areas because the self-serving institutions exceed the financial framework of the budget law. In other words, in the future, it will be more possible to give political priority to whether to invest or to slow down when necessary. Social democracy supports this bill because we believe that it should be a political management of public investment so that we can invest more when the economy needs a boost and hold back when the economy should not run out of control. This should apply throughout the public sector, including in the area of ownership itself. But at the same time, as we have heard here in the debate, we recognise that the institutions have been very critical of this question and these proposals and have come up with many critical consultation responses. We must, of course, listen to this very much, and that is why I shall also be putting a number of questions in committee that have been raised in the critical consultation responses. We are particularly concerned that the proposal will not mean unnecessary bureaucracy or waste of resources, just as education must, of course, be given flexibility and the opportunity to plan their operations and investments. That is why, as I say, I will take it up in committee, in other words, to look into exactly how the new investment framework is to be implemented, among other things. in relation to the school's investment in teaching equipment, which the managers in particular have expressed concern about in their consultation response, so that we can ensure that schools can, of course, continuously renew their equipment. As I have said, the Social Democrats support this proposal and look forward to clarifying the details of how it should be put into practice in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Beazley's report. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143127	Thank you. This bill is, of course, different from the previous draft law, but the content is essentially the same, and so I do not need much time to repeat my remarks on L 181 here. I would just like to point out that it is also very important here, perhaps even more important than for L 181, since this proposal includes many more units, and that simple procedures are being established for drawing up the reporting of capital budgets. As I said earlier, it is important for these procedures to be established in a dialogue with the institutions. At the same time, it should also be possible to do this quite simply for the institutions, by using the construction budgets which, of course, have already been drawn up in the individual institutions. At the same time, it is important to stick to the clear announcement that the intention of the Finance Act is to provide a framework that corresponds to the previous framework for installations in the field as a whole, and I look forward to following the preparation of agreements on the implementation and implementation of the Finance Act. I can only add that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143236	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143244	Thank you, President. As has just been said by the previous rapporteur, it is here under another minister, but otherwise it is somewhat like the legislative proposal which has just been dealt with in this Chamber. I can start by saying that the Left supports L 184. After all, the proposal is part of the implementation of the 2017 Finance Act, and, in short, it is not going well for more investment projects to be launched than is affordable, and that is actually what this bill is dealing with. In other words, this bill helps to ensure better management of investment frameworks, including in the whole area of education. So far, it has been in this way that, unlike other major public areas, self-owners in this area have not been subject to effective expenditure policy management or priority in terms of expenditure policy, and this has meant that in practice there has been investment in areas where there was a risk of also running out of control. In short, I believe that this draft law helps to underline the need for financial responsibility in this area too, and again I can say that the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143407	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Bruno Jerup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143411	Mrs Anni Matthiesen used the same argument, as a couple of others have done in the past, that no more money is spent than is affordable. What is the basis of Mrs Anni Matthiesen? The self-serving institutions usually make it that they take a loan for investment in the buildings they want to make, and then they pay off that loan over time, just like everyone else does. So what is the point of affording what the rapporteur is talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143447	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143448	What I am talking about in this context is, of course, that with the bill here we go in and ensure that the state has an overview of what investments are going on around here, including in the situations of the self-serving nature of the situation. I think you might actually think, almost whatever party you ask in this Chamber today, that this is something that is necessary to have the overall view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143519	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143519-2	But I have to ask again: what does the rapporteur mean by the words that there is money? Well, who can afford what? Because that is, we can say, not immediately the state's money, but it is some money that they obviously get in the form of their taximeters and they pay off on some loans that they have taken. So there is no one who has like taken some loans, built something or invested in something that they have not been able to afford. Or are there any concrete examples of someone who has built something or invested in something that they cannot afford? Because otherwise I don't know where that argument kind of comes from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143554	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143556	Now I do not want to be hung up on it, but as I remember, we had a situation quite a short time ago in which the state also had to go in and provide extraordinary help because it was simply a building that exceeded the investment framework itself. That is certainly what is being taken care of in some way by ensuring that, at least in advance, there is a 'yes' to it before anyone starts building more than an institution, for example. I've got money for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143629	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418143640	The draft law here shows that it can be a difficult task to plan and prioritise the development of a training sector which is so marked by the marketing of the institutions' financial management. It is difficult to carry out overall planning of education policy when the economy is so keen on competition between educational institutions rather than cooperation between educational institutions. The way in which the education system is managed means that the development which can lead to the progress and growth of one educational institution can lead to a decline for another, without as such being part of any planning of a given field of education and without necessarily benefiting the trainees. This is not a new issue. We have been discussing it for years in connection with the marketing of education, and it has to be said that, unfortunately, this is not the basic governance structure we are discussing here either. That is not what is under discussion with the proposal, but nevertheless I think it is worth mentioning, because it is one of the reasons why it is complex to manage the area economically. With the proposal here, the government is not, unfortunately, trying to seriously put an end to this inappropriate economic governance structure. It can surely be said that it is not a proposal either that room should be provided for greater and longer-term investment in the field of education. On the contrary, what is, in its simplicity, at the heart of the proposal is that the government will have control of the matter. You want an extra tool to control and curb public investment. Perhaps there is a direct agenda that says that you really think that investment in education is going a little too fast, and then it is good to have a tool to pull the brakes. We in the Enhedslisten are afraid that with this proposal the government will create a number of new problems for many of the country's educational institutions. It has been mentioned, even during the discussion of the previous draft law, which basically has the same content, that there is a very strong concern in the educational institutions. It also comes out very clearly when you read the consultation responses to this proposal. There are concerns that the proposal will lead to declining training investment, concerns that it may lead to educational institutions operating at times temporary solutions which impose additional costs on them, while at the same time expressing legitimate dissatisfaction with the fact that it is something that is clearly referred to in the draft law that increases administrative costs. They must be provided by the educational institutions themselves within their existing budgets. An extra burden is imposed without allowing the economy to keep up. So all in all, I would say that the draft law addresses an element of the real problems that we have with the whole market management of education. Unfortunately, however, the proposal does not, in our view, indicate anything that looks just like a suitable solution to the problem and therefore Enhedslisten cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144021	Thank you, sir. Jakob Silver Mound. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144030	Bill No. L 184 is a consequence of the agreement on Finance Act 2017 and what was agreed there was that the investment framework, both in universities and in this area, should be subject to the Budget Act. So it is not a legislative proposal that has such the heaviest of the heavy content of education policy. It is more of an administrative nature, but in view of the great benefits that the budget law generally brings to Danish society, and as a result of our being included in the 2017 Finance Act, we naturally support the bill. Several rapporteurs have said that, in principle, they have a positive attitude to the budget law and to the thinking behind it, but that they would like to hear more during the committee procedure. And since there is usually such a broad consensus on Danish education policy, I hope, of course, that all parties will participate in the committee work. But, as I said, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144153	Thank you. There are no brief comments. So we move on to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144200	It's kind of a déjà vu experience to be in the Assembly Hall today, because you stand and say the same thing twice. After all, L 184 is similar to L 181 in relation to its content, it is intended only in the field of education and not in the field of higher education. In this draft law, there is the same problem as there is in L 181, namely that the draft law can, in its ultimate consequence, lead to challenges with long-term investment for these educational institutions and that one way or another action is taken in the institutions themselves, and we find that very worrying. That is why, as I said at L 181, we cannot, as a starting point, support this bill as it stands right now. I think, like the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, who also mentioned that there is a great deal of concern that this draft law brings some more bureaucracy to the educational institutions, and that it must therefore also be thought into implementing it. After all, the hearings are highly critical and, of course, institutional interests are at stake in this case too. But the interesting thing here is that the Danish Industry is also critical of the draft law; they support the introduction of investment frameworks in principle, but they are concerned that the positive development that the Danish Industry itself has had in the field of education can be maintained if this bill is implemented, because it will weaken the autonomy of the institutions, and I think it is important to listen to Danish Industry, which is also a friend of the government. What the Danish Industry is proposing, and which we could actually agree with in the alternative, is that the framework should be adapted by voluntary means, so that the institutions have to adapt voluntarily to the framework. To the extent that they do not do so, we can enter into negotiations with the institutions on how to give priority to the investments made. But such a model of saying at first that it should be by voluntary means, and if it does not, then you go in and take the discussion with the individual institutions, would, for us, be a much better solution. Then we shall only hit those institutions which may then have had difficulty in keeping to budgets rather than shooting grey sparrows with cannons. So as it looks right now, Enhedslisten, no, the alternative can apologize!
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144438	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144448	When I first saw this bill, there were also some alarm bells ringing from me, because it risks being a cut-back in the net and could go beyond the very important investment in education. But, on the other hand, I also share the principle which the government puts forward here, that it is most logical for us to be in the same boat, when the money comes from in here, to understand that there is really something strange about the fact that, as a youth education, you can build what you want for your money, with the consequence that the municipalities can then risk being spun in accordingly and thus not being able to renovate their primary schools. There has to be some common balance in that. That is why we have it in the Radical Left with this proposal, as we had with the last proposal, namely that our position depends on the detail, because it is the detail that determines whether we believe that this will work in schools or become unnecessary bureaucratic. As a member of the REU, among others: points out in one of the consultation answers that the regulation of investments must be carried out in respect of the company itself and in dialogue with the boards of directors, and the institutions must be closely involved in further work on the implementation of the models. We in the Radical Left are very much in agreement with that. That is why I think there might be some thought that we are not just using the committee procedure to ask questions that we usually do, but maybe instead we are dragging some of the key consultation parties into a concrete discussion on whether we can make some amendments that can improve this bill. We in the Radical Left would think that was a good way to go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144634	Thank you. No brief remarks. So we move on to Mr. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418144644	Thank you. As with the previous proposal for an investment framework for the self-employed higher education institutions, I am also extremely sceptical about this proposal, and I am for a number of reasons. It is true that it has been said in the past that, yes, we have to think about the fact that if you spend a great deal of money on investment in education, do you take money from another area? One could also look at it in the reverse way and say that if this investment framework is now adopted, the small educational institutions, youth education, will end up in a mess because there will be large capital investment which, in the political debate, fills more and is more important and which will then in the long term mean that investment in education will disappear. These are some of the concerns that I, like myself, read in the hearings. One of the concerns mentioned in the consultation answers is that the draft law can help prevent new buildings and upgrades to existing buildings and that it makes long-term investment more difficult. I think it is important to have a guarantee that the amount of training will continue to be there in the future; that there will continue to be room for investment and that space is large enough, because proper funding for education and the buildings of education is important. Then there is the whole question of energy-saving measures, which I see is the same in this area as in higher education, namely that energy-saving measures are not excluded. I think that is a pity, because I fear that, if energy-saving measures are not excluded, they will always be at the bottom of the pile of projects that must be prioritised within this investment framework. And as I have said before, it would be both a pity for the educational institutions, but it would also be a pity for our society if it were always the energy-efficient renovations and investments that are being downgraded. Then there is the whole question of bureaucracy. In other words, for some of the small educational institutions, this could become quite bureaucratic. In the draft law, it is calculated that this will cost money to the educational institutions, and at a time when a great deal has been saved in the educational institutions, one might wonder whether it is right to impose more bureaucracy on them. The very thing about asking if this makes sense was actually the basic question I had when I read this bill. What are these wild and violent projects that we have seen both in the field of higher education and in the field of youth education? What is it that updates this bill, other than that you just found out it was an area that wasn't just in the first place? I have no reason to be concerned, I think. Nor do I think that the hearings give me any reason to be concerned. It seems like one of those proposals where you make legislation just to make it. So from the outset, we are critical of this bill because we fear that it will mean less investment in education in the future. However, as I also said in the previous draft law, where I had even more concerns, I think there is room for a good dialogue in committee and a number of questions that can be asked. In fact, I think that the proposal by the rapporteur of the Radicals to invite some people to hear what they think of this bill might be interesting, because even if the hearings are negative, they are not as strongly negative as they are on, for example. the field of higher education. It could be that you could change some things that make you land in a more friendly place than I think it looks like you've landed now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145042	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145047	The content of this bill is broadly in line with the previous draft law, which several rapporteurs have also mentioned. Conservatives can also support the bill here, which provides a better opportunity for a political priority to be given to the level of investment in the state-funded ownership area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145113	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145123	Thank you. I would like to start by expressing my thanks to the parties supporting this legislative proposal to introduce investment frameworks in the area of ownership itself. With the proposal, we will have the opportunity to provide an overview of the budgeted expenditure on buildings and installations in the state-funded ownership area in Denmark. This allows better political priority to be given to the level of investment in the state. The draft law has been put forward as part of the implementation of the 2017 Finance Law Agreement. The State faces a challenge in relation to public investment in buildings and installations. In fact, the Budget Act requires that a fixed upper limit be set for public investment in the state, regions and municipalities, which must not be exceeded. The investments of the State-funded self-owned institutions form part of total public investment. The training institutions are now free to use grants, income and capital, but up to now the State has not been able to make an overall priority of public investment because, unlike other major public areas, State-funded educational institutions have not been subject to the overall priority of public investment. In order to ensure that the State's investment framework is not exceeded, there is a need to establish a governance framework for investment in the State-owned sector, so that investment in the State-owned sector can be regulated on an equal footing with other areas. In short, we must ensure that the self-serving institutions do not spend more money on investment in buildings and installations than they can afford under the budgetary law. The draft law provides for the possibility that the Minister of Education may at any time instruct the State-funded educational institutions to adapt, postpone or stop planned investments, if the total investment exceeds the multiannual investment framework laid down in the annual financial laws. It is important to stress that the draft law does not in itself restrict the ability of the institutions to make investments. The level of the investment framework shall be determined on the basis of annual financial laws. The draft law also proposes the establishment of a legal basis for the institutions to report investment budgets and accounting figures at the request of the Minister of Education. The reports are necessary for the Ministry to monitor on a regular basis the development of the institutions' investment needs. It provides an overview and provides an opportunity to take action in time with a dialogue with the institution on the size and execution of the investment framework. Finally, it proposes that the Minister of Education be empowered to lay down rules on the management of the investment framework laid down in the annual financial laws. The authorisation could be used to adapt the administration on an ongoing basis in order to ensure its proper functioning. Thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145413	There is a brief comment from Mrs Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145421	Are there any specific cases in which the Minister has missed this tool, or are we to understand the bill more so that, in the interests of safety, we should do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145427	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145428	I do not know of any specific needs, no. This is an overall view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145438	Then we say thank you to the Minister for Education. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145502	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 20 April 2017. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Mr. Christian Poll, the alternative, on a statement of reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145523	I am very pleased that the opposition has today called this question debate and thank the Minister for coming forward. It is absolutely crucial if we are to put a stop to the climate crisis before it has fatal consequences that the Danish Government is working hard to set targets internationally that enable us to achieve the Paris Agreement's goal of limiting warming to 11⁄2 and a maximum of 2 degrees. As you know, we do not have these objectives today. We have only four years left before the Paris Agreement's objectives can be impossible to achieve. According to a new analysis from Carbon Brief, there are 66 per cent. the risk that the planet's atmosphere will contain such large quantities of greenhouse gases in 4 years' time that it will no longer be possible to keep the global temperature rise down to a level which is one and a half degrees warmer than the level before the industrial revolution. So we're really, really busy. The global level of ambition must be increased significantly and very quickly. If all the current climate plans are combined, the temperature in the year 2100 will have increased by between 3 and 31⁄2 degrees, and all climate research indicates that countries need to do much more if they are to achieve the target of 2 degrees at all. Fortunately, there is broad agreement in Denmark that the climate problem is important and that the objectives of the Paris Agreement should be achieved. So what does the government do today? We are part of Mission Innovation, although it is exciting when we should actually contribute what we have promised. We work in the Friends' Group for the phasing out of fossil subsidies, just not at home, where we give the fossil industry tax rebates for continued fossil extraction, and we have strategic cooperation with a number of countries in the so-called action track. In the government base is about the Paris Agreement: Denmark must work at national level to contribute to the ambitious objective, but given Denmark's share of total emissions, it is of the utmost importance to seek international influence. Therefore, the government's climate policy has a national as well as an international focus. ▪ The question then is what the consequence of these words is. As I read it, the text of the government base means that the government must work intensively to raise the level of ambition and the climate goals in the EU and globally, and therefore the debate on the EU's climate targets in particular, where Denmark has a direct opportunity to push for more ambitions, is imperative. The problem is that the EU's objective of reducing EU greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95 per cent. in 2050 was set 10 years ago with the goal of keeping the global temperature rise of 2 degrees. As you know, at COP21, the climate target was tightened up, so the EU's objectives were not in line with the global climate target. I hope that with the debate here we can agree to work to ensure that Denmark and the EU take the lead in international climate negotiations and seek to create a strong coalition of countries that will drive the process forward so that we can put a stop to the climate crisis. The parties behind the question believe that Denmark should make it a top priority for action, both in the climate negotiations, but also in foreign policy as a whole, to ensure support and momentum in global climate action.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145849	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we go to the answer. The Minister of Energy, Supply and Climate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418145858	Thank you, President, and thank you to the authors of the question, whom I will do my best to answer. You are asking how the government is seeking influence to ensure that we reach the Paris Agreement's temperature targets. Here is the short answer: the government is working structuredly, multilaterally, bilaterally and nationally, to ensure that we reach the goal. This is done firstly by trying to raise the level of ambition through the UN climate negotiations, and to this end it is done by focusing in particular on those areas of reduction where Denmark's valuable experience can ensure a cost-effective transformation of the energy sector in particular. In fact, we have a lot to offer here and our expertise is in demand internationally to a degree that we can only be very satisfied with as a small nation. The overall framework for global climate action is laid down in the UN climate negotiations. Here Denmark is a player among many, but together with the rest of the European Union we have a strong voice. In the international negotiations, we are negotiating through the European Union. The government is working to maintain the EU's strong commitment and ambitious approach to the implementation of the Paris Agreement so that the objectives of the agreement can be achieved. Let me explain what we are working for, both in terms of achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement and specifically in relation to the issue of the tightening of climate targets in the review, the so-called facilitating dialogue in 2018. I will then return to our international and national climate initiatives. It is in the Paris Agreement that global efforts must be increased over time. We fought to make that deal. The so-called ambition mechanism must ensure that we increase global climate action in order to achieve the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement. An important part of the ambition mechanism is the so-called global stocktake. It shall be implemented every five years from 2023. Stocktaket must take stock of how far the world is in achieving the overall objectives of the agreement, and then it must inform the parties prior to their submission of new climate targets. The Parties are obliged to communicate new national climate targets, the so-called NDCs, every five years. Some parties will have to communicate new targets by 2020 and by 2025, all parties, including the EU, will have to present a new climate target for the period after 2030. The ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement means that each time a party presents a new climate target, i.e.: for the first time in 2025, it must be more ambitious than the previous climate targets. However, the first time we have to deal with the level of ambition in the Paris Agreement under the auspices of the United Nations is with the facilitating dialogue in 2018, where we take stock of the global reduction effort and how far we are in achieving the long-term temperature target. The dialogue shall help inform the parties before they are required by the EU to confirm or update existing climate targets or as other parties to sign up to new climate targets by 2020. Questions are asked about what Denmark will do to ensure that the EU and others tighten up their climate targets in relation to this first status in 2018. Before we enter into that discussion, I would very much like to start from where we are in the negotiations on the EU's climate action right now. There are two elements that we need to put in place first. Firstly, the European Union must deliver what we have already promised. We need to adopt legislation in the European Union that ensures that we meet the EU's 2030 climate targets. Secondly, we need a solid basis for decision before we start a new debate on the level of ambition. Let me start with the first element. Ambitious climate policy is not just about setting targets. It is also about concrete legislation that ensures that we actually achieve the objectives. We need to establish rules for the energy sector and industry's efforts by strengthening the EU's quota trading system. And we need to distribute the effort in the non-quota sectors among the Member States of the European Union. I would like to stress that we still have a difficult task ahead of us, but we are making good progress. I am proud that we in the Council have reached an agreement to significantly strengthen the EU's quota trading system. We have agreed to permanently cancel the majority of the quota surplus after 2024. I hope that we can now agree with the European Parliament on this. That would mean the cancellation of billions of quotas. This is concrete proof that the European Union is putting action behind words. In the case of non-quota sectors, this is a zero-sum game. We can expect difficult negotiations. Denmark is ready to take on an ambitious target. It is important that we maintain the opportunities to achieve this goal in a cost-effective way and defend the Commission's proposal against attempts to water down the EU's ambition level. In addition, we are working for handles in the legislation to ensure that the European Union can update its contribution to the Paris Agreement in the future. It is important that we focus on getting legislation in place so that in 2018 we can enter into the facilitating dialogue with homework in order. This in itself will be the strongest proof of the EU's climate leadership. At the same time, we must be careful to open up discussions on the level of ambition. The Commission has announced that it is now and here about getting legislation in place and that therefore the time has not come to reopen a discussion on the reduction target. It is not likely that agreement can be reached here and now. On the contrary, it may delay the adoption of the legislation and that view is shared by the government. The result can be a divided European Union that cannot deliver and that does not take on a leadership role. Having said that, we must, of course, be ready to reconfirm or update the European Union's contribution by 2020. This must be done on a sound basis of decision-making. In 2018, the UN Panel on Climate Change will deliver a report on the 11⁄2 degree objective of the Paris Agreement. It is expected that, in this context, the Commission will present a strategy which, among other things, will: will look at the implications of EU climate policy. The forthcoming discussion on the European Union's contribution to the Paris Agreement can best be made when we have delivered on what we have promised and have the basis for the decision. The European Union is at the heart of our climate action, but, as I said, we are also working on other tracks as well. If we want to increase global climate action, we must show that the green transition is both technologically feasible and economically cost-effective. We do, among other things. through our bilateral and multilateral cooperation. The work will be given priority in order to maximise the impact on the overall international strategic objective of a reinforced global transition to low-mission. In other words, we are trying to get the most global reductions for the money by focusing in particular on the areas where Danish competences are sought after, and this is in relation to both regulation, investment and technologies. Reductions in the world's emerging economies in particular are a prerequisite for achieving the Paris Agreement's temperature targets. That is why a lot of new energy production capacity needs to be built up and countries are at a crossroads. Overall, they can either build polluting fossil power plants or they can invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency. Through our bilateral energy cooperation, we are practically helping to spread Danish experiences with cost-effective solutions to a number of the world's emerging economies. And I guess it's on the basis of a specific demand for Danish experience. This concerns, among other things: on countries such as China, Mexico, South Africa and Vietnam and forward-looking India as well. It happens with our contributing advice and assistance so that even a small country can make a difference. We advise among other things. on the possibilities for renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and long-term energy planning. And we are helping countries to implement the climate targets that countries have signed up to the Paris Agreement. With our bilateral efforts, we therefore contribute both to the global transformation and increase interest in Danish companies' green solutions. The strategic objective of conversion, especially in emerging economies, and the spread of key Danish experience in the world, is also pursued through a priority effort in the most benchmarking multilateral international energy forums, such as the International Energy Agency, Clean Energy Ministerial, Mission Innovation and the International Energy Agency for Renewable Energy. Here, the focus is on multiplying the Danish effort by getting some of the world's top energy experts to analyse and advise on among other things. Danish solutions. This creates synergies between bilateral and multilateral energy cooperation. The multilateral effort is well coordinated with our efforts under the auspices of the UN, where the government is also working to organise both the facilitating dialogue and the Global Stocktake in such a way that we both take stock of how far we are in global climate action, while focusing on concrete cost-effective opportunities to increase global efforts. It should both inspire other countries to increase their ambitions and create opportunities to showcase Danish climate solutions. There is also the question of money, in other words financing the green conversion. Here we are working to create better framework conditions for private climate investment through the Green Climate Fund and a number of international initiatives. We are working to strengthen the alliances with progressive countries and developing countries and to ensure an ambitious global implementation of the Paris Agreement, among others. through the EU's active climate diplomacy. Through our international engagement, we use Denmark's influence where we believe it is most effective, so that the global community can jointly achieve the goals of the Paris Agreement. I have now explained a great deal of our efforts beyond Denmark's borders. However, it is important to emphasise that we are also taking the lead at national level in the green transition. The government's clear vision of the role of a green pioneer country with ambitious and concrete objectives for the Danish climate action is presented by the government. By 2030, at least 50% shall apply. of our energy needs are from renewable sources, and by 2050, Denmark must be a low-carbon society that is independent of fossil fuels. The Danish conversion must be carried out in a sustainable and efficient way, where consideration for Danish jobs and competitiveness goes hand in hand with regard to the environment and climate. Hopefully, by showing that it is possible, we can inspire others too. Finally, the government base states that we want a Danish climate plan to bring together all the government's initiatives in the climate area, and I expect the climate plan to be ready by the end of the year. So all in all, I think that the government is doing a great deal to exert influence internationally and to ensure an ambitious implementation of the Paris Agreement. We fight with the rest of the European Union and lead the way for others through our national efforts and our comprehensive bilateral and multilateral energy cooperation, focusing on the transformation of emerging economies, so that we can work together and achieve the Paris Agreement's temperature targets.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418151200	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We are embarking on the negotiations, and first it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Christian Poll, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418151211	Thank you. In terms of climate, 2016 was an extreme year with an average temperature of 1.1 degrees higher than the pre-industrial level, and 2017 is also already characterised by extreme and unusual climate trends. We are now moving seriously on unknown territory and our understanding of the climate system is constantly challenged. If the government believes that the Paris Agreement is a milestone and that we should seek international influence, then it should be said very soon that the world's overall reduction plans do not reduce global greenhouse gas emissions sufficiently quickly. The Government should therefore make concrete and active efforts to ensure that, in the light of the enhanced temperature threshold of the Paris Agreement, the EU increases the level of ambition for the 2020, 2030 and 2050 reduction targets to meet needs, science and the Paris Agreement. Following the Minister's speech, I would like to make it quite clear to everyone: the EU's long-term target of 80-95 per cent greenhouse gas reduction by 2050 is based on the 2-degree objective, not on the reinforced objectives of the Paris Agreement. The EU's 40% reduction target for 2030 is based on a linear reduction from 20%. in 2020 to 80%. in 2050. With the increased temperature targets of the Paris Agreement, it is logical that the European Union should at least aim for the top end of the 80-95 percentage band. That's why 40% can be done. in 2030 never make an appropriate contribution to the global effort. In short, the EU's climate objectives are not compatible with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. So we must do something about this as soon as possible, and I still need to hear the government recognise that. Fortunately, however, there is a broad consensus in the opposition and in the government that Denmark must make its opinion felt internationally. This is also evident from the government base, which states: "Ensuring international progress in the green transition is a central foundation for the government's climate policy. This is done through the EU, with the focus on setting ambitious goals and politicians together and an ambitious global international climate action, including under the auspices of the UN and through bilateral cooperation. Denmark wishes to contribute actively to EU climate action. ▪ Today, there is such a reason to step up efforts and take new paths. Trump has come to power and, although the United States has not yet withdrawn from the Paris Agreement and international climate cooperation, his dispute back in the United States with Obama's climate policy shows that the United States is going to play a completely different role in international climate cooperation than we have seen in recent years. It calls for action, not least on the part of the European Union, that is, that the European Union seeks to lead the global climate action. The parties behind the question today hope that we can obtain a broad majority in the Folketing for a proposal for adoption which sets five concrete priorities for what Denmark should push for in the EU. The proposal for adoption by S, EL, RV, SF and ALT reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament confirms that the world's countries must raise the level of ambition in order to keep global temperature increases well below 2 degrees and preferably 1.5 degrees, the government is required to press for the EU: working for the review at COP24 to focus on more ambitious climate plans from countries, including further reduction efforts and enhanced climate adjustment, before the review has analysed how the EU's level of ambition is raised, so that the EU itself meets the Paris Agreement's temperature targets takes leadership in international climate negotiations through cooperation with China, vulnerable countries, etc., delivering its fair share of the binding international climate funding of 100 billion. USD annually from 2020 through new additional funds and actively engages in negotiations on climate damage (•loss and damage) to help countries where climate adjustment is no longer possible. In addition, before COP24, the government is required to develop an ambitious Danish climate strategy (•long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategy) that can inspire other countries. • V 75). The sixth and final element of the proposal for adoption is that Denmark should be a pioneer country when it comes to the development of a long-term Danish climate strategy. It is an obligation that applies to all countries of the Paris Agreement. That part of the proposal is inspired by the government base, page 73, where it is also emphasised that Denmark must be the pioneer country and that the government will take the lead in the green transition. I look forward to hearing how the Minister will work to ensure that we set ourselves objectives that correspond to the global desire to avoid a fatal climate crisis. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418151726	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption is now part of the further debate. We shall continue to do so in the rapporteur's report. Jens Joel, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418151738	Thank you to the President and thank the Minister for answering the question. Records are usually an expression of effort and extraordinary success. In the climate field, unfortunately, the records are much more depressing. We have warmer chords coming straight after each other. The warmest year 3 years in a row has now been measured; 16 out of the 17 hottest years ever measured are after 2001; there are organisations that estimate that more are now fleeing from climate disasters than from war. In other words, it should be well documented that what we are discussing today is serious matters and that we must, of course, do something about it. It was also the realization behind the Paris Agreement, where all the countries of the world agreed that now real action should actually be taken. But it also goes without saying that it takes more than just the fine words from Paris. It takes at least two more things: firstly, that it is actually being translated into reality; that is what we are doing at home; and that is what the European Union is doing; and secondly, that the objectives and ambitions are constantly being tightened up. Because if you put it a little on the tip, you could say that we made an agreement in Paris that will not save the world. It is a rather depressing realization that what we agreed on down there is not enough. That is why, of course, we also agreed that we should continuously increase the level of ambition, and that is actually what this question is about: how do we ensure that Denmark helps to push for the EU, as a crucial player on the global stage, to actually push for an increase in the level of ambition? It's obvious to expect a Danish government to take the lead in this work. We are known as a pioneering country. That is why, of course, it was also depressing when, as the only country, we went to Paris with a lower target than the previous year. It was actually the case that when you ran into people on the hallways, they said: what actually happens to Denmark? For while Obama and other world leaders had said that it is now time to step up, it is now that we have to take climate problems seriously and turn up the ambitions, then Denmark came as the only country with a lower target than we had had the previous year. It is of course a pity, but one can also say that with regard to the wallet, it is even worse, because it is also bad merchanthood, if we are not very careful on the Danish side to put the ambitions high, because it is actually Danish companies, Danish jobs, 3Fs and metal workers and engineers in the industry who deliver the products that we in Paris agreed to use more of. When we in the opposition have taken the initiative for a question, it is therefore with a dual aim: it must be ensured that Denmark continues to push for as ambitious objectives as possible for the sake of the climate, but it is also with the hidden allusion to and on the basis that we actually know that the ambitious climate requirements also benefit Danish jobs, because everything else we can do in our work in the EU can help to ensure that there is also a market for Danish products. I think that the discussion we have had today, and the Minister's reply, is very positive, but unfortunately I also think that it is a bit like the world objectives and the discussion we have here in the Folketing in another area, namely that the government believes that it is basically doing well, and that is why we should actually do more of what we used to do. There I think it is important to understand that we do not remain at the forefront of the race. Although we have actually spent 30 to 40 years putting ourselves in the lead in this area, it is now that the train is running and if we are standing still at this stage, we are also losing the opportunities that lie in the transition that is taking place. In short, therefore, we expect the government to be part of the coalitions in the European Union, and it is also important for me to stress that this is not, of course, about Denmark going alone; it is about Denmark actively joining the EU discussions and pushing along with those countries in the European Union that want us to be more ambitious. In fact, it is also, as my colleague Mr. Christian Poll emphasized that the government itself intends to be measured. That is why we look forward to seeing, in a number of contexts, that not only is it said in the speeches from the platform or in the government base, but that it actually does. That is what we want to discuss today, and besides the debate, of course, I also look forward to continued cooperation to ensure that Denmark plays a progressive role in EU climate policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152232	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152236	Thank you to the rapporteur. I think we can agree that the core of this challenge of emissions of climate gases is that fossil fuels are cheaper than green energy. Now we have completed a few offers of wind turbines in Denmark last year, Krieger's Flak and the coastal wind turbines, which gave surprisingly low prices. Does the rapporteur not imagine, as I do, that if technological developments continue in the years ahead, as it has done, with still lower prices for green energy, that is simply the solution to the global challenge, namely that green technologies are just cheaper than fossil energy and will therefore be the automatic first choice? And what consequences does the rapporteur think it should have for Danish energy policy when we get there?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152334	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152337	It is a very relevant question, and one could add to the falling prices of sun and sea winds in Denmark, that there has also just been a tender in Germany, where DONG has offered without subsidies to build two out of three parks. So it's going really fast, and that's why I think that Mr. Mikkel Dencker is right in saying that some of the problem is that if you have to be so lame, you will solve yourself because technology development helps to secure it. That is why it is also the case that when we discuss the energy policy of the future, it is not just a question of setting up more wind turbines, because that is where I think Mr. Mikkel Dencker is right that the market is becoming more and more driving in it. After all, it is a question of ensuring how we have an energy system, where we actually also get the energy used, where we actually use the wind turbine energy, where we get it stored, so that we also have power, the day it doesn't blow. That is why it can be said that energy policy is never a static size. We shouldn't just do what we did last year. That is also why we call on the government, when it comes to finding new solutions, to demonstrate how we can avoid having fossil energy backup and not just how we can build more renewable energy, because that is where I agree that we are being helped by falling prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152441	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152444	After all, the rapporteur himself referred to the tender that was concluded in Germany last week, when DONG just won two offshore wind farms without public subsidies, and this was a fantastic development that we did not even expect to come so quickly. But now that it has been demonstrated that it is possible to create offshore wind farms without subsidies anywhere, should we not also abandon having subsidies for farmers at home and bet exclusively on wind turbines at sea? Because there are, it has to be said, extensive protests in many places both over land wind turbines, but also coastal offshore wind turbines, and if you can now set up wind turbines out at sea without subsidies, should we not just bet on it and drop subsidies for wind everywhere else?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152529	I think that we will naturally be screwing up the support rates that have been and there will be more and more of our renewable energy production, which will take place without aid. It may be something new in many places, but we look into that discussion, I think. I would also like to say that, in relation to farmers, I have just received an answer from the Minister, who says that we could also have 3 000 wind turbines less if we had some new and efficient wind turbines and then still produce the same amount of energy. This would also make it possible to take a different view of the neighbors. All this is just to say that the next battles in energy policy are not about making more of what we know, it's about getting the next step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152609	Then it's mr. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152612	Thank you for a fine contribution from the rapporteur. Of course, I'm sorry to hear that Mr. Jens Joel, one might say, perhaps expressed a little bit of bullying during the Paris climate summit, because an objective had now been changed. It's always too bad. Sir. Jens Joel knows I have a lot of experience in that area, not in being bullied, but in coming to climate summits. I myself have little experience of this and have only been with one time in Marrakech in Morocco last year. I can so comfort Mr. Jens Joel said that my experience as climate rapporteur for a Danish political party for the climate negotiations was positive. When I rushed around to the climate negotiations, there were only positive reports of Denmark's efforts internationally in relation to the climate agenda. At least that's positive. Then I'll just finish addressing it in relation to jobs. I believe that last year the economic wise men declared that continuing one-sided expansion of wind energy would actually cost jobs in Denmark, in the long run up to 5,000. So you just have to take things with a spruce of salt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152718	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152720	Thank you for caring about the bullying. I'll take care of it. I believe that this is a major problem for Danish business leaders. And it is true that we still have a good fire out there, but it is also indisputable that people are of course taking note when the country that is best at creating jobs in the green transition, and the country that is one of those who is making a lot of money from being involved in this, suddenly starts to turn down. It will, of course, be noted. Sir. Carsten Bach should also know about the value of a good brand, and it is a pity when there are scratches in the paint, it is a pity when DI's analysis shows that there is now less investment in the energy sector in recent years due to, among other things, the energy sector. political uncertainty. Then we have thrown out some of the things that we have looked up to and been strong on, namely a broad consensus in the Folketing on the framework conditions in this area. I think that's too bad. But I'll survive the bullying, and I'll say that in a small country like Denmark, you can't be the best at it all. This is one of our positions of strength, and that is why we also believe that it is important to hold on to the leading position in business policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152828	Sir. Carsten Bach.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152830	Finally, on business policy: I agree that climate policy for Denmark is a long way off being industrial policy at the moment. In relation to investment in the energy sector, we have seen that the decline, which may have been last year, has turned and that there is now progress. The government has just come up with a new strategy for exports in the field of energy technology. And then I would like to say that I am pleased that the Social Democratic Party was actually involved in the agreement that abolished the PSO, because the PSO is clearly a barrier to competition for Danish companies and has certainly cost jobs, hardly the opposite, and that is why it may be that there are some other sectors that we could have been the best in now, but where we are not because of distortions of competition due to the PSO.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152910	Thank you for the cooperation on the PSO agreement. It is, of course, indisputable that when the Social Democratic Party joined the PESO agreement, it acted, among other things. About it, as Mr. Mikkel Dencker also suggested before, namely that what do we do when it is no longer just about support for renewable energy? What are we doing to electrify society, that is, step no. Two? How do we get out of here? And there was, after all, a step towards making electrification more attractive, which is good for the green transition in the long term. This was one of the reasons, apart from the fact that, of course, there were also jobs in other sectors that we were aware of when we reached that agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152946	Sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418152948	Thank you. I welcome the fact that the rapporteur highlights the green economy in Denmark. It can be a whole lot. I would say that I was a little shocked this morning when I read an article in the Stock Exchange saying that venture and growth capital for energy technology has fallen by 98%. since the financial crisis. So that's 2%. back to the level that was then. I just want to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not obvious for the Social Democrats to work to get that wave back up and make every effort to ensure that the green Danish business community has a full screw so that we can live up to the Paris Agreement and at the same time do it in the good way as pioneers, as we are so good at Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153042	Thank you for the question. In fact, that was the story I also referred to in my reply to Mr. Carsten Bach on the subject of the fact that there has been an assessment of uncertainty and that there is also a resistance to the reduction in research efforts which has also occurred since the change of government. It can be said that the link between cutting research effort and political uncertainty with attempts to cancel already agreed and offered offshore wind farms etc. etc. After all, what has done is that we are in fact in danger of throwing out the baby with the bath water. We are in fact in danger of creating an uncertainty which is causing investors and the big money to bypass Denmark. That would be a shame, because it will of course hit the climate, but it will particularly hit Danish companies and jobs in this particular sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153131	There were no more questions, and then it is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153137	Thank you for that and thank you very much for the rapporteur's speech. I very much agree with what the rapporteur says, both that we must be very ambitious in this area, and that this is also about securing Danish jobs in some crucial sectors and maintaining a leading position that has secured us thousands of green jobs. So I think that the rapporteur's speech provides a good perspective for the day that hopefully comes a change of government and there will be some parties in power who will actually be concerned about creating jobs in these industries. However, I would like to hear from the rapporteur how the Social Democrats think we should push not only in the European Union, but also outside the European Union, to create some of the alliances that will push this international climate cooperation forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153222	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153224	It is by its very nature very difficult to say exactly how one should approach it, because much of it happens behind closed doors. However, there is sometimes a situation in which individual Member States try to form a coalition, for example in the European Union, in order to push for it. Last time we had government power, we also had a situation where, just before we were to be President of the European Union, there was close cooperation, one might say, between the Danish Government and the most vulnerable and least developed countries to try to secure an ambitious climate agreement. This is an example of how to find alliance partners. It could be some who have strength positions in the green area, but it could also be some who said: you have strength positions in the green area and can deliver products and create jobs; we will have problems if climate change picks up. And then you could create an alliance there. These are two examples of areas where we have traditionally done so and where I am also sure that Danish diplomacy is currently working on it. That is why I say that this is actually the fight we hope the government will also undertake to fight at political level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153331	I also think it is incredibly positive that we hear from the Social Democratic Party that we want to make both an EU alliance, but, as such, we want to extend beyond the European Union, because there are huge backward countries within the European Union. So it may be necessary to look beyond the EU's borders in order to make binding climate cooperation with countries that want the same thing as us, namely ensuring that humanity is not affected by a climate disaster.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153358	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153359	Yes, and one can also say that some of what works well and that we must continue to be good at and, fortunately, as the current government also does, is part of planting some of the Danish solutions around. Sometimes you can have more influence on saving the climate by actually helping around the world countries with good district heating solutions or something else that lowers their CO2 There you can really make a bigger difference than standing and shouting in a climate debate where you can't get the others to follow suit. So we must play on all keys, and I think the government can do that to some extent, but certainly not to the extent that we had the potential to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153437	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153440	I would also like to thank you for your speech. I also think it is very good and I think it was a very nice and ambitious speech. The government has written in the government base that they will present an overall climate plan in the autumn, which is why I would like to hear the position of the Social Democratic Party, i.e. whether this climate plan should contain what is called long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategy, which all countries should develop under the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153511	Well, I think it's obvious, but of course I can't say that. I would think that it was obvious that, in its government base, a new energy agreement should be presented and that a climate plan should also be drawn up, if you like. Unfortunately, there was a climate target which is said to have now been cancelled, but the things that have been decided upon to do, I would think along with how this could be a contribution to the international process that we have and where Germany, Canada and various other countries have joined and have made the long-term plan referred to by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. I would think that was obvious, but unfortunately we do not know what the government is going to do until the early autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153553	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153555	Thank you. The rapporteur himself refers to the six countries that have already made these plans and signed them up. That would be weird, and that is also what I hear from the rapporteur, if Denmark were not also to be among this group of countries which were pioneering countries and were precisely making these long-term plans.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153612	I really think and believe in addition to the fact that, of course, it sends a bad signal not to be part of the company that Mr. Lars Christian Lilleholt and the officials still have to do much of the work. Because you have actually committed yourself to doing some things, and then you might as well, if you may say so, think it along with the international effort, where it actually gets you, what can you say, symbolic value, that Denmark joins the fight.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153640	Thank you, sir. Jens Joel. In this Chamber, we call the ministers by their titles. Jens Joel Sorry). Then we move on to Mr. Mikkel Dencker from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418153700	I would like to begin by thanking the authors of the debate that we have today. In the Danish People's Party, we are basically satisfied with the way in which the UN system, with the COP meetings and with the Paris Agreement, handles climate policy. It is no secret that we in the Danish People's Party have been sceptical about Denmark and a few other countries going alone in climate policy for many years, and that we undertook major tasks in reducing CO2 It has been a very expensive decision that has reduced Denmark's competitiveness, while the impact on the global climate has been questionable during the long period of singleness. At the same time, a great many other countries have done nothing and are thus directly lurking at our work. With the Paris Agreement, which was concluded in December 2015, far more countries than before became involved in the efforts to reduce CO2 Yes, in fact, almost all countries are included in the agreement and in this way the burdens are distributed far more fairly and equally than they have been so far. The real question is whether, in the long term, there will be a particularly heavy burden to be shared out, because technological developments have shown in recent years that the price of green energy is falling sharply. Last year in Denmark two large supply of wind turbines at sea was carried out. On both occasions, both Kriegers Flak and the coastal supply, it resulted in surprisingly low rates of support, compared to what was expected and what we had been used to from previous tenders. And just last week it was announced that DONG had won the supply of offshore wind turbines in the German part of the North Sea, where the aid is around zero. In other words, we are in a situation where green energy can compete freely with traditional fossil energy, at least in a few years' time. Thus, green energy becomes the natural first choice on the basis of purely economic criteria. If this becomes the general picture at global level in the years to come, then CO2 Experiences with the latest Danish supply of offshore wind farms and especially the news that support is superfluous, in recent German tenders, mean that we from the Danish People's Party urge to reconsider our strategy for wind turbines in Denmark. Since we have learned that wind turbines can be set up at sea without any support, we think that must be the way forward. Many Danes feel bothered by windmills set up on the ground, and the protests against the coastal windmills have been massive and have made an impression. So let us now, when wind currents can be produced all the way out at sea, where windmills can in no way bother anyone, settle for them in the future. This will be one of the demands and wishes that we will agree to in the negotiations when the future energy agreement is to be negotiated. In the Danish People's Party we believe that in Denmark we can be aware of our efforts in climate policy and more, and Danish companies, with their technological development, have contributed to the fact that green energy is now cheaper than ever before. We in the Danish People's Party are satisfied, as I said, that the Paris Agreement has been concluded, and we expect Denmark's role in the future to be that we naturally live up to the agreement we have reached, just as we naturally expect that the many other parties to the agreement will live up to their share. And then, as I mentioned first in the speech, we expect technological developments to deliver a decisive breakthrough in climate policy in the years to come. Finally, on behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to make a proposal for adoption, and this is what it says: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an international climate agreement was concluded in Paris in December 2015 in connection with the COP21 climate summit. The agreement obliges the parties, including Denmark and the EU, to work to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and to plan how reductions are achieved. Similarly, the Parties undertake to report every two years to the United Nations on the state of play in the implementation of their plans. Against this background, the Danish Parliament notes that work to reduce the influence that human activity may have on the climate is satisfactorily handled under the auspices of the United Nations with the Paris Agreement as the basis for this work. As a party to the Paris Agreement, Denmark as well as the EU must fulfil the corresponding obligations. • V 73).
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154131	Thank you. And that is now part of the further debate. Then we have a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154138	Thank you. I share the rapporteur's satisfaction that offshore wind power generation now seems to be so cheap that it can run without aid. It's a great joy for all of us. But we still need to set targets. And, as I mentioned in my speech, the EU's objective of reducing emissions is set 10 years ago and based on the fact that we have a target of 2 degrees. Now there is a target in the Paris agreement of 1.5 degrees. That is why these objectives need to be tightened up. Will the rapporteur's party help to push for the EU's objectives to be tightened up as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154217	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154219	In other words, as I said, we are pleased that the Paris Agreement has arrived. We believe that we, both as Denmark and as the European Union, which we are also part of, must live up to the things that have been agreed. However, as I also mentioned, we believe that technological development will bring us a very good deal along the road, and we will just look at the time for a while before we start to conclude whether there is a need for more initiatives than to comply with the things we have already promised our surroundings that we are doing. Because if green energy becomes the natural first choice both in Denmark, but also everywhere else, that is the way we drive, and that is the way CO 2
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154307	Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154309	I'm gonna drop out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154318	Then we move on to Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154321	Thank you. I took note of the rapporteur's statement that other countries have indirectly lured up our work on the green transition. Does the rapporteur recognise that, knowing that the whole world is going through a green transition to renewable energy, to new technologies, there is an advantage in being among the countries that are leading the way, developing technologies that show that it can be done in terms of creating jobs, in terms of taking initiatives that will benefit our own economy and our own position in the international economy of the world? Is that an image that the rapporteur recognises?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154411	I fully recognise that, for example, the Danish wind turbine industry has created a great many jobs • that the supply and support we have had for green energy have created many jobs. This can be welcomed both on behalf of the export earnings that have been and, of course, on behalf of all the people who have had their bread in this way. I just want to say that when you support a sector of industry massively with public crowns, it is clear that jobs are being created. There always is. So is it if we say that we want to have a bakery on every corner of the street, and then we support the bakery in that way. Then jobs will also be created there. But it is pleasing to all those who have had their livelihoods in this way, and it is pleasing to see the export earnings that have been and that something good has come out of the aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154458	Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154501	But can the rapporteur not also recognise that we can get even more out of the green transition, that it is worth continuing to make an effort and to be at the forefront? As others have said, we are losing momentum right now, when many other countries are going out there and where we are hesitating. We have not set an ambitious 2030 target; we have not yet established a binding climate plan. And it is so important that we maintain that leadership if we are also to be those who create jobs for the future in these extremely essential and important sectors of the world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154538	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154540	I really do not think that we are losing momentum in any way. On the contrary, I believe that green technology is culminating. I guess it was last week that it came to light that offshore wind farms can be built without any support. I think that is a milestone. We haven't seen this before. In the past, there have been quite large amounts of aid per year. produced kilowatt-time. It's obviously over now, so it's an important milestone. It is a culmination of the technology development that has been. And I hope that technology development will be further advanced.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154613	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154615	Thank you. Often, when discussing climate policy, it all has such a rather sad ring and is a little pessimistic about the future. In fact, I think that the rapporteur's speech was excellent in being on the second ball street in the sense that the rapporteur said that he did not think it was the great burden to be shared out because technological developments would make most of it self-sufficient. But I can only worry a little about what the rapporteur has to do with that optimism. Of course, we rarely have to complain about optimism, because it was not long ago that a very large number of researchers were out to say that they were almost abandoning the target of 2%, because they did not see it as realistic to achieve it in the light of the way the nations acted. So I just wonder: now that so many of the country's climate scientists are pessimistic about achieving this 2-percent objective, why is it that the Danish People's Party's rapporteur is so optimistic when, on the other hand, I do not sense the great will for such further initiatives?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154714	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154716	Well, I'm an optimist. But I would also like to say that now it often sounds as if the earth is going to fall in 50 years' time when you hear the left talking about climate policy. I hope it doesn't, and I don't think it will. In fact, I believe that the technological developments we have experienced throughout the history of mankind, where things have been invented and great progress has been made after all, will also make green technology and green energy cheaper in the longer term. I think that's what's gonna happen. And that is what is at the heart of all climate debate and climate discussion, namely the problem that fossil fuels have been cheaper than green. If that competitive relationship is turned upside down, then things will solve themselves along the way. Now we just saw last week and also last year where much cheaper green energy has suddenly become.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154805	Mrs. Mette Abildgaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154807	I can actually share that it's this green optimism and belief in technology that's gonna make the difference. However, I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur would then be willing to fight with me for more money to be spent on EUDP research funds when we next have to make a budget law. Because that really is one of the things that drives the development of technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154831	I don't want to stand up here and promise how we're gonna position ourselves in the financial laws negotiations. However, in general terms, I believe that there is a greater perspective in investing in research than in supporting the production of something that cannot cope with market conditions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154845	Thank you, sir. Mikkel Dencker. There are no more brief comments. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Thomas Danielsen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418154853	Thank you for that, President. The Left, of course, leans on the Minister's previous reply. However, as has already been explained, the Paris Agreement agreed on ambitious climate targets to keep the temperature rises below 2 degrees and preferably not above 1.5 degrees, but also targets that we can see at this stage that there are several countries that stand to fail. That is why we need a realistic approach to global action in the area of climate change. Basically, I believe that our Danish focus should be on the first part of the question that the questioners have asked, namely what we will do to ensure that the climate objectives of the Paris Agreement are respected. That's what this is about. Climate targets are very little worth if they are not observed. That is why our first priority should be to continue to have the necessary legislation in order to reduce our climate impact in the European Union and in the world. The Left would also like to sharpen the EU's and other countries' climate targets. Therefore, our government focused on the so-called ambition mechanism in the negotiations on global climate action. It must ensure that global climate action is increased over time. However, right now, our main task is not to raise the level of ambition in the European Union and other countries. It is to deliver on the objectives we have set ourselves. Therefore, on behalf of V, LA and K, I will read out the following proposals for adoption. It reads as follows: Proposal for adoption The Danish Parliament calls on the government to work for an ambitious global follow-up and implementation of the Paris Agreement. In addition, the government is encouraged to work to organise the facilitating dialogue and the global stocktake to take stock both of the global reduction effort and of the implementation of concrete climate solutions. It should like to inspire other countries in the development of their climate targets and in the long term increase global climate action. The government should also focus on presenting concrete cost-effective climate-friendly solutions in bilateral and multilateral cooperation. Parliament also calls on the government to work to maintain the EU's global climate leadership. This means that the EU should adopt as soon as possible the legislative proposals aimed at achieving the EU's declared objectives under the Paris Agreement of at least 40%. greenhouse gas reduction by 2030 compared to 1990 and ensure that legislation is adapted so that the European Union can update its contribution to the Paris Agreement in the future. • V 74).
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155207	VLAK thinks I can be translated into the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party. The proposal for adoption is then part of the further debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155218	After all, I am very pleased with what the rapporteur says about the fact that objectives must, of course, be accompanied by action and that objectives are not worth anything if they are not followed up. You can count on what the European Union's target will be by 2030 if the European Union is to lift its share of the global burden of meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement. The European Union must then have a target of 75%. If the rise in haemoglobin is greater than 2 g/ dl (7.5 mmol/ l) in four weeks reduce the dose by We can also calculate what Denmark's share should be. Then we must have a target of 70%. in 2030. So if we are to take up the rapporteur's words at face value, the Left must also support the very specific objectives that we can calculate on the basis of the objectives of the Paris Agreement and based on the remaining CO2, can the rapporteur follow me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155320	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155323	Thank you for the question. I can follow the rapporteur's concern and concern. However, if we are already discussing new objectives and new decisions within the framework of the European Union before we have our current objective in place in legislative terms, then the fear of the Left will be that we will simply push the decisions in which we are in a hurry to get our hands on now. That is why I do not believe that any green conversion is being promoted by even now, before we can manage how the objectives we have already adopted are to be translated into new objectives. So it would not be appropriate to start talking about new objectives under the auspices of the European Union even now, out of concern and concern, and to postpone the objectives we have actually talked about before they are managed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155418	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155420	Well, I don't know if it's care. I would like to mention a figure which gives substance to what the rapporteur has said from the platform of the Folketing. What are the consequences of the position expressed by the rapporteur? You can figure that out. There's a CO2 so you know which targets we need to point out. It's relatively simple. Of course, these numbers are associated with great uncertainties. The objective should be higher. We should reduce more. So I think that if we are serious about the objectives of the Paris Agreement being accompanied by action, then we have to deal with the very specific figures that are available.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155506	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155507	Well, I think I have understood the rapporteur's question, but it is possible that the rapporteur did not understand my answer. Because when I talk about care, the Left's concern for the climate is what I am talking about. It is, of course, the case that, on the part of the Danish Parliament, we cannot decide which objectives and requirements should be met in the rest of the European Union, and that is why it would be a delay in the decision-making process if we were already to start discussing new objectives before we have implemented what we have already agreed today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155539	Then it's mr. Christian Poll.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155544	I would just like to mention the article from the Stock Exchange this morning, which I also mentioned earlier in the debate, in which an inventory has been drawn up which shows that 98 per cent. of what is known as venture and growth capital for energy technology has fallen away since the financial crisis and since 2009. What is also shown in the article here is that the type of green projects, which are the ones we really need, may be going elsewhere. And is Danish business so geared to continuing to have a leading position that we have, after all, had in some areas for a number of years, or is it falling away? What does the rapporteur have to do to enable us to continue our leading position and perhaps also to scale it further up to the European Union and thus take the lead, both Denmark in the European Union and the European Union in the world? What's it gonna take?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155640	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155642	Thank you for the question. First of all, I must acknowledge that I have not read the article referred to, which has now been asked by several rapporteurs, and it is of course a pity now that I have found out that this is obviously a focal point of the debate. One might say that it is also slightly outside the question of the question. But I'll hurry to get it read when I get up to my office. So I find it rather difficult to answer the rapporteur's question exactly in relation to this article.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155714	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155717	I can understand that, of course. After all, the article is about there being receding desires due to political uncertainty about investing in green energy technology, and perhaps there is a need for greater stability on these issues. That's what we need. I just think that what may be important in this context is to find out what you are going to do in Denmark in order to continue to attract this kind of technology and to give them the boost that is needed in order to keep going ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155753	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155755	I agree with the importance of continuing to be a pioneer country and maintaining our leading position. And that is why I very much welcome the fact that we have had a government that has been as ambitious in the green area as it has been, precisely with the basic view that we must ensure as much green conversion for the money as possible. And that means, of course, that we have had a lot of focus on taking some difficult steps and then on making the preparatory work some future steps. In other words, we have set up an Energy Commission and we await its work. We have a grant and tax analysis on the way. That is where we make the long-term agreements for 2020-2030. In conclusion, I would like to say to the rapporteur that I am sorry, President-in-Office, in relation to the short-term part... now I came straight from that, I regret that. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155856	I think we'll wait with that answer for another good time. Then we move on to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155903	The Left's concern for the climate sounds completely campaign-sloganic. Well, that certainly sounds really nice. Sir. Thomas Danielsen also mentions all these things that the Left has done for the climate, namely the things that have been set in motion. But I am just interested to hear about where, in the barely two years that the Left has been sitting in government, first alone and now with the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, the rapporteur seems that the government has gone further, in other words in results, than, for example, with the Conservative and Liberal Alliance. the previous government just to compare. Because then we have something concrete to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418155945	That is a very good question. Where this government has actually gone further in order to displace CO2 in relation to the incorporation requirement for the transport sector. In concrete terms, we have made one of the greatest green advances in recent times, in that the whole parliament talks about the desire to ensure increased electrification and makes it more attractive to use electricity for transport and heat, etc. That is why we have just gone that way and made it cheaper to refuel your electric car, made it cheaper to heat your house with electricity, that is, everything that the whole parliament actually agrees on, but which it costs incredibly much money to ensure is made more attractive. That is why we want to continue working with the rest of the Danish Parliament and hopefully a broad energy reconciliation from 2020 to 2030.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160035	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160039	Thank you. I think it is true that there is a broad desire in the Folketing for a green transition, but I think there is a difference between how fast and how far you want to go and what you give priority to spending the money on. A concrete example is that the government gave priority to spending a quarter of a billion dollars to make petrol cars more expensive, while at the same time imposing taxes on electric cars. Now I am just taking electric cars as a very specific example, because the rapporteur himself quite rightly said that electrification of transport is really, really important. Now we can see today that a small agreement has been reached on the 5 000 electric cars, and until then the charges are kept calm. But aren't 5,000 electric cars the same thing that is being sold in a week by petrol cars? It's just to continue this specific example.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160127	Finally, I cannot answer that very specific question: how many petrol-powered cars will be sold in one week. But it is true that we have corrected the tax on electric cars. It is not at the level of petrol-powered and diesel-powered cars, but a broad agreement has been reached on the tax part. On the other hand, we have begun the phasing-in of the tax paid to refuel our electric car. We just have to say that Parliament has had a clear desire to promote the use of electric cars, since the electric cars were exempt from duty. Unfortunately, it just didn't turn out to be the way to success, which is why I think you have to think more broadly about what you have to do to make it attractive to drive in electric cars. These are also some of the discussions we need to have in negotiating energy agreements. That would be a really positive step forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160221	Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160224	Thank you. I also have a question for Mr. Thomas Danielsen, and that is a little in line with what I also asked Mr. Mr Jens Joel, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM (88) 573 final - Doc. What are the implications for Danish energy policy for the Left? We witnessed last year that the coastal supply we had met fierce criticism, especially of course in West Jutland, where the mills came up, and windmills are also regularly criticized because of light flashes, noise and appearance. So the consequence should not be, as the Danish People's Party believes, that in future we will only set up wind turbines at sea if it can be done without aid, and then we will drop setting up wind turbines everywhere else, that is, on land and near the coast? Does the Left agree with that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160318	No, the Left does not agree with that. It is the case that we have an ambition in the future to secure our green conversion measures in the form of a higher level of supply, and that is to say, technology-neutral tenders, so that we do not just decide that, when we are going to have more renewable energy, this must be done via offshore winds. That is not appropriate. We would like to do so in such a way that we get as much green conversion as possible for the money, and that means that the cheapest technologies need to be brought forward more.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160356	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160358	In the Danish People's Party we fully agree with the Left that we want a technology-neutral supply, so that solar energy, for example, can compete with energy from wind turbines, so that we get the cheapest possible supply of energy. That's how far we agree. But now that we have technology that can produce power without subsidies, and when we have windmills that can drive at sea where they don't bother people, should we not stop setting up wind turbines in places where they bother people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160425	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160427	After all, it must not be understood that for the Left it is a goal to secure energy solutions that annoy people, either in the form of solar parks or wind turbines. We have very clear legislation in this area, and it must be said that it is very geographically determined where there is popular opposition to various technology solutions. There are some parts of the country where you welcome both solar parks and land winds, and elsewhere you disapprove. I think it is important that we from Christiansborg do not go in and dictate what is allowed in the individual municipalities. So if you want wind farms on land in an area, we believe that it is the council's job to make these decisions. The most important thing for us is that we get as much cheap energy as possible, and I actually believe that in future winds will be cheaper than winds of the sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160525	Thank you. A second brief comment was made. And it's from Mrs. Sanne Bjørn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160530	Thank you. It's just really nice to hear that the Left has some ambition in this area. I should just like to raise a very brief question, because now I also heard the proposal for adoption that the rapporteur read out: is it not true that it may mean that some significant investments must be made by the state too in the short term to ensure that the climate is beneficial in the long term? That is what has been seen with the whole strategy for our green transition and the fact that we got the lead: we dared to invest and we dared to put money in it, especially because companies need security for the investments they make. Can the rapporteur not just confirm that investment needs to be made in the short term in order to gain a long-term benefit?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160620	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160621	There is not so much in this area that can only be confirmed, because it is a very broad area when we talk about the whole of Denmark's energy policy. But there is no doubt, I think, that one is going to re-evaluate the way one thinks about energy investment from measuring green success in how many wind turbines one can subsidise to set up or solar parks, or what do I know to perhaps look more at what it is that regulates behaviour in such a way that one does not use the renewable electricity that we are producing today to a great extent. Well, by 2020 we expect to 80%. of our electricity consumption will be from a renewable source. So it doesn't help that electricity is the most heavily taxed form of energy we have in Denmark, since we want to use more of that form of energy. I therefore believe that we are going to have to deal much more with the charges we have on our technologies. This means that we will be discussing whether we should remove some more taxes on electricity, if that is what you want to behavior-regulate towards. That is also what the Environment Commission recommended.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160732	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160734	One of the areas where you can, of course, regulate behaviour is the car park. And we have made an agreement on that today, among other things. About securing electric cars. This is one of the places where the current at night, which is in surplus, can be used de facto. It is one of the very best and cheapest ways to ensure that we use power at night when it is cheapest. Then we could not agree, and would the rapporteur not acknowledge that it is extremely important that we take the low-hanging fruits, even if they are more expensive?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160808	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160809	So I do not believe in the context that one can say that the lowest hanging fruits are the most expensive. These are usually the cheapest solutions that are the lowest hanging fruits. However, there is an important point in the fact that we have a major challenge with regard to the transport sector. That is quite correct. That is also why the current government has already gone further than the previous government in this area, because the non-quota sector is and will remain a major challenge for us. So it is a high priority with the non-quota sector, that is to say the transport sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160840	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and go further in the rapporteur's line. It is Enhedslisten's rapporteur and that is Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418160854	Thank you very much. 2015 was in several ways a very landmark year. Firstly, the UN's new world goals were widely endorsed, and there was also support for a global climate agreement for the first time in reality for a climate agreement which tightened the targets not only to target a two-degree target, but to actually increase ambition and decided to aim at one-and-a-half degrees. Such a climate agreement should be followed by the fact that all countries went home and looked at: what does it take to achieve the objective? What should each country deliver in relation to its own climate plans and climate targets in order to support this new global objective? However, the countries have not done so, and what remains is that we are going against temperature increases on the wrong side of 3 degrees, and also that while all countries agree that humanity must be saved from a devastating climate disaster, everyone also agrees that it is some others that must do so. And time passes and the longer the time passes before global CO2 Here in Denmark too we have a responsibility, because we also support the Paris Agreement and the new ambitious climate targets. It is a responsibility that we cannot simply wrap up in that we are part of the European Union and must follow what the European Union is giving us. We have also joined as an independent party, and we have a task in a world where, in recent decades, we have fought for a green leadership position, a position where we are a country to which other countries are looking, from which other countries are inspired. We are a country that can help create hope and help create faith that a highly developed welfare society can also deal with the climate crisis. And that is exactly the leading position that we must continue to take on, by taking on our share of the global reduction commitment right now, by looking at these targets, making the calculation that I have already mentioned in a question to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, in relation to saying: What does it take of us? What should be our target by 2030? Then we have to make binding action plans, and that is where I think it is a pity that we can see that other countries, for example. Germany and France have made an action plan, but Denmark has not yet delivered its. And then we have to recognise that climate is not just about energy. It is very symptomatic of today's debate that the debate on wind turbines is very central. If we are to deal with the climate crisis, we must actually achieve what should be our reduction target by 2030, then climate must be at the heart of our policy in all sectors. It's both about agriculture, it's about transport. I think it's obvious to everyone, but it's about so much more. It is about our economic policy, it is about our tax policy, about our business policy, about everything that is really developing our society, the climate must be absolutely central. Then there is the second aspect that comes from the Paris Agreement and that results from the new global objectives, and that is that we, as a green forerunner, have to reach the world. We need to reach out into the world to all those countries, not only in the European Union, but all those countries that are ready to enter into binding cooperation and also set ambitious objectives. This is among other things. nations in the Pacific, which these climate changes are going to hit in a disastrous way, which is also reaching out to us. It is clear that the next step in ratifying the Paris Agreement, in remaining an ambitious green forerunner country, is to create binding alliances with all the countries in the world that believe that the climate is important and that humanity must be saved from a threatening climate disaster. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418161350	There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance, and that is Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418161405	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the entire left and opposition for taking the initiative in this debate on global climate action. In fact, in my opinion, it is actually the right context to have the climate debate in. Of course, we must insist that the climate is considered and then also debated in a global perspective • especially since Denmark is a relatively small player in the major international context both politically and economically. Although one might sometimes think differently, Denmark cannot lift the climate agenda alone, and support for the EU's overall climate policy, including the quota system, is better and much more effective in terms of a real reduction in climate gas emissions than Danish one-off. After all, the central focus of international climate policy is not what each state can do, but what we can do together and together, globally. The Paris Agreement is therefore also quite central, as this is the first time that global society, unitedly, is behind a political agreement on climate change. Denmark is then in a position • as we have heard several times in today's debate • where we have good opportunities to exert international influence, push on, influence and facilitate the global climate policy dialogue, which of course we must use as much as possible and for everyone's benefit. The Prime Minister's visit to President Trump is perhaps the latest exposed and, in fact, probably also at the moment. best example of the difficult climate dialogue that the government leads on behalf of Denmark and the EU and leads, together with our partners, on the commitments of the Paris Agreement. The new export strategy for energy technology is another example of Denmark putting climate and energy technology at the top of the agenda in a wide range of contexts. The strategy takes place, among other things. an extension of bilateral cooperation in the field of energy and climate with China and a growth adviser in the field of energy will be sent to our embassy in India. Both Danish authorities and companies can thus more easily support and contribute with know-how and experience of transition to the low-carbon society of the future. This is all in parallel with testing Danish technology and concrete solutions for energy efficiency improvements and savings are exported and creating growth and jobs in small Denmark. I could also mention the new Danish development policy strategy, where climate challenges are a key starting point for action. The government's many initiatives must thus help to inspire other countries in their work with reinforced climate goals and increased climate action and preferably in the form of concrete Danish or Danish inspired climate solutions. After the change of power in Washington, it appears that one of the main roles on the global climate scene is becoming vacant. Denmark and the Danish Government must help push for the EU to take on the leading role in the future and to be more dominant in future climate negotiations. Leadership is leading the way with a good example, and Denmark and the EU already do. But leadership is also to get everyone on the wagon and to get everyone to make a substantial effort and make the necessary changes to the common goal to the best of their ability. With strong European leadership, the road can be laid to a balanced distribution of burdens, and therefore the transition can be made as cost-effectively as possible globally. The strengthened position and the good example also need to be used to push the big countries in particular - the United States, China and India, as just mentioned - to pave the way for global greenhouse gas reductions to a greater extent. The road to enhanced climate targets has already been incorporated into the ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement, and for the European Union, the new reinforced target in 2025 means that this must be the plan we must continue to follow, so that the implementation of the lack of legislation is not muddled by untimely discussions on new reinforced objectives. First of all, we must sweep our own door and the door of the European Union. Denmark is well involved and therefore needs to make a significant effort to get legislation in place and the rest of the EU on track, so that the EU as a whole can meet the target of 40% reduction in 2030, i.e. Danish leadership in the EU. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which was read out earlier in the debate by the rapporteur of the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162000	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162004	Thank you. After all, the European Union's objectives were adopted 10 years ago and based on the knowledge that was then. Would the rapporteur not agree with me that there is a need to review these objectives as soon as possible, because in the Paris agreement we must not just try to achieve two degrees, but must try to achieve one and a half degrees, and indeed have gained new knowledge since the objectives have been set? So how does the rapporteur think that pressure can be exerted to tighten up the objectives of the European Union as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162044	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162046	Thank you. I think, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that we must focus first and foremost on what has been signed up and what has been agreed, both in the EU context and in a wider international context, and get legislation in place and in the EU context, that we are all at odds with each other, and that, as the European Union as a whole, we can set a good example, which has been mentioned several times, to the rest of the world, so that the rest of global society can follow the good example of the European Union and also get legislative action and so on. and make the necessary changes to achieve the goals of each individual nation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162127	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162131	Yes, but if those targets are not ambitious enough at all, especially in view of the fact that the United States seems to want to withdraw or, at least, lower its ambitions sharply, shouldn't Denmark press for the EU to have even tougher targets and to an even greater extent to go ahead than simply meeting the targets set today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162158	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162200	In my view, we need first of all to work to keep the United States up to the commitments they have already made. It is of no use that we, either in Denmark or in the European Union or elsewhere, should be burdening the United States, which may/may not be able to see it coming out of a Paris agreement. We cannot lift the load that the Americans should lift in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162227	Thank you. Then there are no more brief comments. We thank the rapporteur. Then we move on to the rapporteur of the Radical Left, and that is Mr Seligman. Kristian Hegaard. Kristian Hegaard has the opportunity to speak from his own place, so here you go to Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162242	Thank you. Denmark has been a green leader nation. We have, among other things. was due to the broad, ambitious energy reconciliation in 2012. It set ambitious targets, and the breadth of the agreement also provided business with some guarantee of investment. They are important, because huge and costly investments, when companies have to take the lead, go hand in hand. It has allowed us to sell green solutions all over the world. Green exports have grown over a long time. This has given us the opportunity to export, but also unique opportunities to advise, among other things. China. There have been milestones in Danish climate policy, and it was a major milestone that there was such a wide range of long-term goals. It has created a direction with a unique leadership position in the climate area in the world. But the government has gone another way. During COP21 the government was elected as today's fossil and disappointed most in the climate negotiations that day. It is very, very unfortunate, because we in the Radical Left would like to see us take that lead again, so that we again become a green leader nation. We must be those who push for the green transition, not only in Denmark, but also in the world, even if it has some financial costs in the short run. The Paris Agreement was important because it is the first time in the world that we have recognised climate problems and that something needs to be done about them. It is nice that, for the first time, we should not just discuss whether there are climate problems and whether something needs to be done about them, but that it is actually recognised. The rapporteur, Mr Seligman, is Mr Seligman. Christian Poll has explained the five points in the text of the proposal for adoption that have been presented today and has referred very well to the government basis. So what will the government actually do to follow up the ambitious line, and how will the government take the lead and show action? That answer is still flapping. Because there is so much need for us in Denmark to take the lead, not just for the climate, but for future generations. Because it creates jobs, and it benefits the Danish economy, and the government tends to take an interest in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162512	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line and that is the SF's rapporteur, and that is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418162534	First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues in the other parties who are behind this debate on questions and, in particular, thank Christian Poll from the Alternative for reading out the proposal for adoption. As my colleagues from the Liberal Alliance rightly said, a very good forum to discuss climate policy is precisely the international one and to focus on what we can do together at EU level, at UN level and internationally. However, there will also have to be some countries that take the lead, and there are more who have rightly pointed out that Denmark has had the global driver's shirt on. As a tiny country, we could still stand with a straight back and say to people: Look, the bumblebee can fly. We usually say this about our welfare society, but you can create jobs, and you can make money, a lot of money, and grow big businesses with green jobs. We showed this, and that is why, as my colleagues from the Radical Left have just said, it should be obvious that the government was interested in this. Because it is usually precisely what can benefit Danish economy and Danish companies that the government cares about. We have also repeatedly heard Danish business leaders shouting in arms and saying: these green jobs are actually what we make money on; that is what we have our employees for; that is what our production is all about; that is what we live on. In the past, there were also visionary politicians who said that we should have an environmental law, that we should have some climate rules, that we should set a course that we should follow. At that time, of course, it was perceived as some rules and perhaps a regulation that felt a little tight, but it made us become first movers. This gave us some of the largest companies in the world in a wide range of areas. We are some who think that the government could do much more to maintain global leadership. 'Cause it's true that if we work together with each other, it won't hurt anything. We saw this first and foremost at the Paris Summit on Climate Change, where I was also with a lot of other colleagues. It was really nice to see that for the first time in a long time after all there was a little bit of optimism and believe that this could be done. Because that is possible, but it requires political will. This requires giving priority to this and the longer we wait, the harder it becomes and the more expensive it becomes. It's gonna be a lot, much more expensive. This is not a luxury task for some on the left and perhaps some at the Conservatives, because they think it might be a bit delicious with a little green policy. This is a completely bottomed task. Instead of talking about doomsday prophecies, which I heard one of my colleagues refer to as when, according to him, we are always standing up here saying that the world is going to end, let us draw a brighter picture, that is, if we actually take the lead, then it is the job of the future that we are creating. Then it is farmers' fields that are not being flooded, because even a 2-degree increase will eventually mean rising water levels of several metres. So I'd like to say to Mr. Thomas Danielsen, that it is also in the Struercircle, the fields and the houses will be flooded. It is also in Copenhagen that historical buildings will be underwater. It is also in Aalborg and the entire area around Limfjorden that everything will be flooded. So it is huge social values that are at stake. But it is the case that we can create a future that looks much brighter because we are creating tomorrow's jobs and we are investing in technology through some of the funds we have historically prioritised in order precisely to invest in new technology. That is why I also think that, as Mr. Christian Poll mentioned in connection with today's article in the Stock Exchange, was very alarming, namely that the investments in this area have plummeted. There it matters what we say in the Folketing. It means something, because and it might sound surprising there are some who listen to what we say in here, what signals are being sent about what to invest in. Because you want security for your investments. And if we zigzag in the direction of climate change, if we do not show that that is what we want for the next decades, then investment will also fall. Denmark is a tiny country, but we can easily be a giant in the green area and in the green transition. And what we want so much to signal to the government today is that the whole parliament should be united that we can just remain a pioneering country, including internationally.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163054	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Carsten Bach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163058	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I am, of course, pleased with the reference to my own introduction. I got a tiny bit confused along the way. The rapporteur from the SF, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, began very hard to announce that Denmark no longer has a leading position on green technology and transition to low-carbon societies etc., that is, what we are all talking about today, but later in the rapporteur's speech it is said that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would like the government to do more to maintain the leadership position. So either we've lost it or we have to keep it one of them. Perhaps the rapporteur would just bring me up to date on what SF and Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen really mean in this context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163153	At least I have the modest wish that we should not lag further behind than we have been doing over the last two years. Because it wasn't political teasing when Mr. Jens Joel of the Social Democratic Party said that it was noted at the climate summit that we have a new government, it is noticed when we lower the demand for agriculture when we lower the demand for non-quota sectors and when we impose taxes on electric cars. One very specific example I mentioned myself was that in the same quarter, the first quarter of 2017, when 60 000 petrol cars were sold, 35 electric cars were sold. Today an agreement has been made not to lower the tax, but to maintain it until 5,000 electric cars have been sold. A week's sales of petrol cars. Such things are pieces in a jigsaw puzzle that both determine politics at home, but also sends signals to the outside world, and that is why my modest wish was that we should not lag further behind, because I think there have been retrograde steps in the last two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163301	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163303	Thank you. That's the thing about where we are. When the rapporteur speaks of lagging behind, I think there must then be some in front of us, but I do not think that is right, because I believe that Denmark still has a leading position, and I would refer to the remarks I made to him. Jens Joel earlier in the debate. I also believe that the leading position of Denmark at the present time has actually been created on the basis of reduced competitive power for Danish industry in general. It may well be that jobs have been created in the wind turbine sector, but I think it has cost jobs elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163337	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163340	This is of course a little interesting, because the rapporteur belongs to a party that usually says that yes, there are industries that change, new ones come to, share economy, etc., and that there is simply a development in the type of jobs that we have in the type of companies we have. I very much doubt that, overall, we have lost some jobs on the basis of the policy that has been in place. It is quite unusual that such a small country has such large companies in a number of the strongest green areas, so I simply do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163418	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the rapporteur. We move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, and that is Mrs Mette Abildgaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418163433	Thank you for that and thank you for the parties that have called for this debate. This has been a very good opportunity to discuss the Paris Agreement and I think there has been a very interesting debate today. And then it has to be said that the more we can put climate on the agenda here in Parliament, the better it is for the climate challenges we face as a nation, perhaps the greatest challenge of my generation. We Conservatives believe a lot in what we call the generation contract, i.e. this bond that goes from our ancestors who lived on earth once and are dead today, to those of us who stand here today, looking forward to the children we may or may not put into the world. There is a bond of responsibility that binds us together, and it just requires us to make the right decisions now, with a view to the consequences for future generations. That is why climate policy is a key issue. It is a great thing that we have been discussing today how the government can press internationally to achieve the Paris agreement's objective of keeping the temperature increases to a maximum. 2 degrees and preferably less than 1.5 degrees. But it must also be said that objectives are worthless if they are not followed by actions. And when you think of how relatively difficult it was to achieve objectives in this area, yes, I think it has to be said that we cannot just sit back and believe that the actions will come on their own. We have to stay awake all the time in this area. The first time the Paris Agreement really has to be put to the test is in 2018 for the first review. These reviews are crucial, because without them these common objectives are merely utopia; for the efforts and initiatives that have already been announced at this stage are not enough, as the Minister for Climate and Energy also mentioned in his speech. That is why the Paris Agreement and this mechanism of ambition contained in the agreement, which both Denmark and the European Union pressed for the agreement, that is to say the most important. As a nation, Denmark negotiates in the UN system via the EU. Of course, we must press for this to ensure that the European Union has as ambitious an approach as possible. And it is just a task that we must not neglect and take for granted, because that task is great. We just have to admit that not all European countries have as ambitious a policy in this area as we do in Denmark. Of course there may be disagreement here in the Folketing between red and blue blocs and the parties between, and we may have different positions, but one has to say that as a nation we are relatively similar if we just compare with many of the other European countries that do not have the will to prioritise climate action as much as we do in Denmark. I was also at the Paris Summit on Climate Change, and one of the things that impressed me was, among other things, one of them. to hear the many NGOs that were around to meet and have events with, for many of them were saddened that they felt that the EU was too weak and that the negotiations that came on behalf of the EU system were not ambitious enough. And there it is just crucial that we push to secure as ambitious a mandate as possible for the European negotiations. Because it has to be said that it is of great importance when those who are considered to be the most ambitious relax on the accelerator; then it will be per. automatics also more legitimate that others do the same. When the European Union is about to set new targets, yes, of course, we must push for those targets to be as ambitious as possible. My good fellow party member Connie Hedegaard wrote in a speech that I read a few years ago that in international climate policy, you often play the game called "After you, Sir·, that is, where you keep letting others take the first step, and then you'll have to follow. But in this area it does not help that everyone waits for each other and lets others come first; there has to be someone who takes the first step. In Denmark we are already doing a great deal, both in terms of reducing our own emissions, but in particular in terms of developing the technology that can help other countries. This technology we are exhibiting with our home market in the first place, and we can of course welcome it, which has already been a great deal of talk about the large Danish exports we have in this area. This gives plenty of Danish jobs, also in some of the parts of the country where jobs in particular are wanted. I look forward to working further on the Paris Agreement, and I feel confident in the Danish efforts in the light of the speech made by the Minister today. The Conservative People's Party also supports the proposal for adoption which was read out a little earlier by the Left rapporteur, Thomas Danielsen. I should like to make a very brief comment on the final point, because I actually had time to read the article by the Stock Exchange today on technology investment, as rapporteur for the Alternative, Mr President. Christian Poll, mentioned earlier, and it is certainly something that makes an impression. Well, it points out here that private investment has plummeted by 98%. in this area since the financial crisis. One of the things that is being asked for is that I can at least see in the article that this is about stability and security, and we have a political responsibility to ensure this about energy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164001	Thank you. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164006	Thank you. I'm glad to hear that Conservatives are going to work to get that security back in place. Because I don't see it right now. But I'd like to ask you something else. Now the rapporteur himself mentioned Mrs Connie Hedegaard, and in relation to the work of the government in what is called the Friends' Group, the elimination of fossil subsidies can, of course, very topically be called into question how the oil and gas industry is subsidising at home. Recently, we had an agreement that fell into place on tax rebates for Færsk. Connie Hedegaard says to that agreement: It is difficult for me to understand how politicians from a number of parties have reached that agreement. All I can say is that if any country is facing a decision to start a new oil or gas field, Norway, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, etc. For it is difficult to go to Nigeria with 191 million inhabitants and say that they must leave their oil underground. What is the rapporteur's comment on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164119	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164120	Let me just comment briefly on this issue of stability and security. I really believe that this is one of the most crucial things. When you talk to people who work with this every day, they point to the great unpredictability in this area as a huge barrier to getting investors to make the necessary investments. I believe, on the one hand, that we can solve this by ensuring long-term energy reconciliation, broad long-term energy reconciliation, which sets the framework for Danish climate and energy policy, and, on the other hand, I believe that we can do a great deal to stick to the decisions we then make. That is why we from the Conservative People's Party were quite clear in relation to these coastal mills. There was much discussion back and forth about them, but it was just so crucial for us because of the security of investment in Danish energy policy to stick to the decision made by the Folketing. Compared to the North Sea agreement • Sorry, now the time has almost run from me: we are not yet where we are independent of oil. That is where we are going, but we are not there, and as long as we are not there, I think it is better that we are self-sufficient than imports.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164223	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164225	But this is an extension of the guarantee that oil and gas can be extracted in the North Sea to 2042. That's a lot of years into the future. At that time, then, I think that we certainly need to be shut down almost because it is by 2050 that we should be a low-carbon society. So is it not a bad signal to send out when, at the same time, you have to live up to a Paris agreement and perhaps want to take the lead and be a pioneer country, both in relation to the European Union and for the European Union internationally?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164302	It is quite true that we have set ourselves a number of targets in the government, on the one hand this goal that half of our energy needs should be covered by renewable energy sources by 2030 and, on the other hand, the goal of being a low-carbon society by 2050. And if we are to achieve the objectives, yes, there is more oil to remain in the soil and more renewable energy sources to be used. Fortunately, we see falling prices for much of renewable energy, and I think we will also see that it goes in and replaces much of the other consumption we have had, precisely because it is so advantageous in terms of prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164335	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164337	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his speech. I think there were many good elements. I very much agree that climate change is mankind's greatest challenge ever and that objectives are indifferent without action. For this reason, I also think it really was a pity that it was a government with the Conservative People's Party that decided to drop having a national climate target for 2030. Although the strategy to push the EU is very sensible and good, there is still a long way to go. The EU currently has a 2030 target of 40%. If the European Union is to increase its share in order to live up to its share of the Paris Agreement, we must reach 75%. What if it doesn't work? Is it still the rapporteur's view that we should not take our share in Denmark, or should we be subject to the EU's overly unambitious level?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164426	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164428	As I mentioned in my speech, we are negotiating in the UN system through our EU membership. That is where we get the most out of our vote, but then we just have to seek the best influence in the EU system in order to set as ambitious an agenda and approach to the negotiations as possible. I would say that the Conservative People's Party itself was involved in the introduction of the national climate objective that was in Denmark, and if we had had 90 seats in the Folketing, which we do not currently have, it was probably also continued. However, I think it has to be said that the objective of renewable energy that we have achieved in the government base is significant and ambitious. In addition, it has to be said that, via the EU system, we also have the objective of the non-quota sectors, which will require massive investment and restructuring, even in Denmark, if we are to achieve the ambitious objective that we seem to have achieved. So I think we're gonna get enough work done in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164527	We have ratified the Paris Agreement as an independent party. It is outside any discussion. So we are not necessarily subject to too unambitious an EU level. There are, in fact, 90 mandates for ambitious objectives, including in the long run. So I would like to ask one more question: if we do not succeed in pushing the European Union in a more progressive direction with regard to the 2030 target, does it not have a value that we are detaching ourselves from the EU's overly unambitious level and taking on our share of global reduction commitments?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164604	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164606	Of course, we can have national objectives in Denmark and national ambitions, but we just have to stick to the fact that when we negotiate in these systems, it is through the European Union that we have a voice to do it with and we can make a difference. However, Denmark has a goal of being a low-carbon society by 2050, which is a more ambitious target than the EU system. There are many of our milestones on the way there, which are also significantly more ambitious than the EU objectives. So we can easily have that, but ultimately we are negotiating via the European Union in the UN system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164637	Thank you. Then I have no further brief comments on the list, so we thank the rapporteur. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and give the floor to the Minister for Energy, Supply and Climate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418164649	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the great interest in today's agenda, for today's debate on questions. This shows that there is at least a great deal of interest in the subject. I must also say that, as Danish Minister for Climate and Energy, when I look at the Danish climate policy, I am actually very, very proud, very satisfied. This also applies when I look at some of the objectives that have been set, when I look at the government base and the vision that by 2030 at least 50% must be achieved. of total energy consumption be based on renewable energy. I have to say that when I am out in the big world, and you have that pleasure as climate minister, I can see that not many countries have a similar objective. This also applies when I look at international studies. A few months ago, the World Bank presented a major analysis showing that Denmark is the world leader in green conversion. We have some of the best framework conditions at all for green energy, for green conversion. The IEA, the International Energy Agency, has also recently presented a study that places Denmark entirely, right at the top. So there's nothing to be embarrassed about. When you listen to the debate here today, you should almost think that it's all pretty much finished, it's all at a very low level, and there's a lot to go for. I can just say that Denmark is completely, completely at the forefront. This is also the experience you have when you get into the big world and experience the enormous respect that is for the way we have carried out green conversion in Denmark. There's really, really much to be proud of. Listening to today's debate, one might get the feeling that it is about going to the European Union, and then we can get them to raise the level of ambition by 2030, preferably before, preferably tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, if it is up to some of the parties here in the Danish Parliament. I can just say that I have the experience that the task for us now is to keep the world together in order to achieve the objectives that are there. It is not a task Denmark solves alone. Looking across the Atlantic, you see what is happening in the United States and the doubts that have come about about some of the objectives of the climate agenda. I can also say to you that in the European Union the task is not now to come up with new, great, fine objectives and new demands. That is to keep the European Union united in terms of the climate agenda. If some countries now with Denmark in the lead, as some in this Parliament would like, started pressing for us to go further by 2030 and we should adopt it now, then there would be an overwhelming risk that we would not be able to reach agreement within the European Union to implement the Paris Agreement with the goal of reducing emissions by 40%. in 2030. It would come under very, very severe pressure and there would be a risk that the whole agreement would fall to the ground. Therefore, Denmark's task in this is to contribute to everything we can to keep together the agreement that is. I would also like to take the opportunity and opportunity here today to thank a broad circle of parliamentary parties for giving mandates and supporting Denmark's position when we have been in the European Union and negotiated, among other things. the climate agreement and EU agreements towards 2030 on climate. It seems to me that this is about sticking together and, above all, keeping the European Union together. Then the task on both the short and medium track is to implement the agreement we have made towards 2030, about 40%. CO2 The Commission played out this summer, on 20 July, with a proposal for burden sharing between countries in the non-quota area. I have to say that it is a great task that lies there. It must be negotiated in the coming months. It may even take longer. I think most countries have an experience that they have undertaken relatively large commitments, and that is also a view that we have on the Danish side. It is the case that we are, of course, fulfilling the obligation that we have when it is finally established. It will be an obligation at the very high end. Then it is also clear that Denmark, in the contexts we have the opportunity to do so bilaterally, has the opportunity to contribute to raising awareness of green solutions. There I am clearly of the opinion that we are really, really strong in SEM contexts, in RENA and in other contexts where we participate actively. There are good opportunities to be a pioneering country and show how it is possible to implement a large amount and a high share of renewable energy while ensuring a secure energy system, security of supply, etc. In fact, I believe that we in Denmark have a great deal to contribute and make ourselves visible. Finally, the government is looking at how we honour our commitments. The Government's intention is to present an overall climate plan by the end of the year. Once again, thank you for the floor. I would also like to thank you for the many good comments. I see that there is a certain impatience among some parties here in the Folketing. I think it is absolutely essential not only to be impatient but also to be patient to ensure that we actually live up to the agreements we have and help the world live up to the agreements that the world has made. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165238	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Christian Poll. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165242	Thank you. It is clear from the government base that the government will present an overall climate plan in the autumn. It's on page 74. Is it the government's plan that this climate plan will contain this long-term low greenhouse gas emission development strategy? so a very ambitious strategy? which all countries according to the Paris Agreement should develop?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165311	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165313	Thank you for the question. Now I don't know the plan in detail yet. We're working on it. But the intention is that it is a plan that will indicate how Denmark is fulfilling the ambition, the commitment we have, to reduce emissions by up to 40%. in 2030, i.e. the share that we have to achieve in the non-quota area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165334	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165337	Thank you. If I understand the Minister correctly, the government sees it as a plan where it should be within the 40 per cent and which at all, what can be said, must create special initiatives that can go further than that. I would like to say that there are already six countries, including France and Germany, which have submitted plans which have some ambition. Could Denmark imagine going further and will the government work to ensure that we become a spearhead in the European Union that can lead the way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165410	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165412	Thank you for the question. The first task we have is to implement the agreement towards 2030, and we will do so. Then in 2020 there will be an opportunity to discuss this issue again. Before that, the European Commission will also look at the opportunities for the EU to contribute its share in achieving the overall climate target by 2030, and on that basis we will discuss, first in Denmark and later also in the EU, whether the EU should increase its 2030 target by 2020.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165444	Then it's mr. Mikkel Dencker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165448	Thank you. Among many other things, I believe that the government and the Danish People's Party agree that we must honour our commitments, according to the agreements that Denmark has entered into. Part of Denmark's fulfilment of the Paris Agreement is to reduce our CO2 I also think we agree that it should be done cheaply. Last week, after all, the result of the supply for the German part of the North Sea, which showed that DONG had won an offer at an offshore wind farm with no subsidies, without aid. What considerations does this give the government in terms of Danish energy and climate policy? Because it is a fascinating thought if we can get green energy without subsidies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165533	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165536	It's not just a fascinating thought, it's also a fantastic thought and thanks for the question. I see very, very great perspectives in that, and that is very, very welcome. We saw the first signals about it in connection with Krieger's Flak, where we were down to 37.2 cents per. kilowatt-hour. It was then the world's lowest bid, and now DONG has delivered an offer of three German parks, two of which are without subsidies. I'm very, very pleased about that. This provides good perspectives, also for the forward-looking Danish climate and energy policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165607	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165609	Thank you. What was also striking, apart from the fact that it was windmills that had become so cheap here last week, was that it was offshore wind turbines. It is certainly no secret that both land wind turbines and also coastal offshore wind turbines were subject to very great criticism last year when we carried out the coastal supply. What does the government think of the idea that the Danish People's Party has that we completely drop putting more wind turbines on land and coastally and then concentrate solely on offshore wind turbines, that is, so far away from the coast that they can't bother some people now that we have seen that it can be done without subsidies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165646	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165648	Thank you for the question. I think we will see that the massive expansion remains at sea. We can also see this most recently with Krieger's Flak; with the size of the park there, it can supply 500,000-600,000 households with their annual consumption, so much electricity is produced there. I believe that there will continue to be an opportunity on land to place land-based wind turbines, but the massive building will be at sea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165713	Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165717	Thank you. It is quite true that there are hugely backward countries in the European Union, but it is also just a fact that the EU's ambitions are currently not high enough in terms of meeting the objectives of the Paris Agreement. And instead of using Poland and other backward countries as an excuse for not acting, I believe that it should be Denmark's job to recognise that the world is bigger than the European Union and that there are other countries that would like to join with Denmark in taking the lead; will help to meet some binding objectives that recognise what lies in the Paris Agreement. Can the Minister not recognise that it may mean something that in Denmark, as a historically green pioneer, we actually set ambitious targets for 2030 that meet the 1.5-degree target and reach out to European countries, but also to other countries, and try to create international alliances with others who also take climate change seriously?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165818	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165820	Thank you for the question. After all, the EU's policy in this area is among the most ambitious in the world, if not the most ambitious at all. After all, the objective that the European Union has for 2030 is highly respectful throughout the world. And I therefore believe that Denmark's efforts are best done by working to the greatest extent possible within the framework of the European Union and, in addition, of course, using the good Danish example when we are around and showing how it is actually possible in developing countries, in other countries, in emerging economies to implement a high share of renewable energy and to do so in a way that ensures both a better climate and a higher security of supply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165902	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165904	We are talking about climate change, which could have disastrous consequences for our children and grandchildren. They cannot use the fact that a European Union is today among the most ambitious in the world, because it should be alarming that this is the case when the European Union has a target of 40% reduction by 2030, which should be 75%. That clearly shows that we cannot wait. We cannot wait for Poland to do everything in its power to withdraw from the ambitions of the European Union. We have to go on our own, we have to reach out to those who want to be involved in binding international climate cooperation, otherwise this will not succeed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165947	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418165949	As Danish Minister, I see it as my main task in this context to hold the EU together. That's what I said just now. If we start to make further demands now, before we have solved the first part of the task, there is in fact a risk that it will all go away. It would really be serious in relation to the signal to the rest of the world if it were the case that the European Union could not meet the objectives we have undertaken up to 2030. That would be a really, really bad signal. And that is why we from Denmark also worked massively at the last climate ministers meeting that an agreement could be reached in relation to the actions we are going to make towards 2030 and the commitments we have made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170030	Then it's mr. Jens Joel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170032	Thank you. It is true what the Minister says, that the most important effort must be made through the EU system. However, it also matters what the EU countries join and how they place themselves in the negotiations. And I would like to ask what the background is for the government actually chose to drop the CO2
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170111	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170113	I would say this in that we replaced it with an even better target: the target of at least 50% by 2030. of energy consumption be based on renewable energy. Not many countries in the world have a similar objective. And in relation to the reductions in CO2 emissions
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170137	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170139	In other words, you cannot say that you have replaced the two objectives in the government base, and one has been dropped, as far as I understand it, but the Minister can correct me if you still intend to present a 2030 target. What has been removed was the aim of the previous government. And then perhaps I can get the Minister to say whether the Minister knows other countries who went to Paris with a lower target than they had the previous year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170202	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170204	I would just like to say that in 2020, with the latest base projection, we are actually reaching a 39-percent CO2 plus that we have set a target of at least 50 per cent by 2030. of total energy consumption be based on renewable energy. And I just have to say that as Minister I am very, very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170231	Thank you. There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. Then I give the floor to the rapporteur for the questioners, and that is Mr Beazley. Christian Poll from the Alternative. Here you go for a rounding.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170258	Thank you. I would like to start by thanking the Minister for coming up for a good debate here today and also thanking the parties who have helped to convene the debate, and by the way, thanking the parties in the Chamber. I think we have come very well on the subject. I hear the Minister say that what this is about now is holding the world together, holding the European Union together. And I can see that, if that is the situation we are facing at the moment, there should be a particular uncertainty, perhaps especially as the United States is hesitant about their climate action and threatens to leave the Paris Agreement, then there is a special new situation in the whole world. Can Denmark hold the world together? Can Denmark hold the EU together? Yes, to some extent we can be a part of it, but if we do so by sticking to a goal that is outdated and that does not want to make sure that we achieve what we need to achieve in relation to the Paris Agreement, and thus resolve the climate crisis, then perhaps it is not so much worth just holding the European Union together and holding the world together for that reason. So, yes, Denmark is on the front line, and we have heard a number of people say that, including the Minister, and that is a good thing, but is it good enough? I don't feel convinced that's good enough. There are a great many, both from the NGO world and from the scientific world, who say that we need to sharpen our targets, otherwise we will not reach the Paris agreement. And they're not the only ones. In the article from the Stock Exchange, which has been mentioned a few times today, Troels Ranis, who is the industry director of DI Energy, says that the leading position we have can be lost in 1-2 years if we do not do something more if we do not tighten up our ambitions. And if we go behind the dance, it may take many years, 10 years or more, to get back on the horse and again to show the way. And that worries me a lot. The countries are at a crossroads, says the Minister. And where are we going? Where will Denmark go? We have just seen a North Sea agreement concluded which ensures that we can continue to extract oil and gas in the North Sea until 2042. The government has dropped reduction targets. And a VE target has been inserted instead, which is merely a linear projection of the developments we have had a number of years ago. So I am concerned, but I am also pleased with the debate here, which has shown many facets. And I hope, as the Minister has also indicated several times, that Denmark will stand next to the most ambitious countries, also in the future. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170606	Thank you. There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170610	It's a little special, because I really wanted to say something to our minister, but my system went crazy down here. It was actually to try to follow up on what Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding also mentioned, not so much that I can hear that we have certain differences between the parties, but more about the fact that we can see where there are obstacles in EU cooperation. This is among other things. Poland, which is a huge country, coal-dependent and for historical reasons totally terrified of letting go of its own coal supply due to Russia. They just don't dare take the leap. I would just like to hear the opinion of the rapporteur of the alternative. Perhaps it could be an idea with such a kind of green aid package, so that we use it precisely, that we have companies, we have technology, we have a lot of green know-how to actually facilitate the transition, because climate policy has also become a security policy very much. Could we not try to think in the opposite way or differently in order to help those EU countries that dare not take the leap?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170721	Thank you for that suggestion. I think it sounds like a great idea. I think that one of the things that we in the European Union can do is to have a kind of solidarity, that is, that those who have come the longest can help those who have the most difficulty in making the next important steps. So I think that's a really good idea. It will be the type of roles that will be able to move something in my eyes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170744	The questioner? Apostates. Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I would just like to inform you that the vote on the proposals for adoption, as mentioned earlier, will not take place until Thursday 20 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170808	The debate is open. I should like to ask whether there are any rapporteurs who wish to speak. That does not seem to be the case. I should like to ask the Minister for Finance if he wishes to speak. No. Since no one has asked to speak, the debate is closed. Is there a request for referral to committee? There is no indication of this and, as this is not the case, the proposal goes directly to the second and last reading, and that is why this matter is also closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170906	The debate is open and we shall give the floor first to the Minister for Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418170939	There is often a lot of interest in stock options and now also stock options in state companies. However, it is the case that the Company Act generally states that it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to determine the remuneration of the Board of Directors. The general meeting and thus the shareholders ultimately have to approve the company's remuneration policy in the form of some general guidelines for the remuneration of management and employees, including possibly share programmes. The State must therefore address the remuneration policy of the companies in which the State is a shareholder. This has been done in the State ownership policy published in April 2015, which contains a number of recommendations that the state companies are expected to address, and is intended to support the value creation of state companies for the benefit of the State as shareholder. Ownership policy runs with recommendations from e.g. OECD and the Committee on Good Corporate Governance. The ownership policy's recommendations for payroll are designed to ensure that salaries in state companies are supportive for companies to be run efficiently and professionally by competent management. It follows from the recommendations that, when determining the remuneration of the board of directors, the boards of state companies must work on the basis of an overall view of offering a competitive wage. The aim is to attract competent persons to the management boards of the companies, but at the same time also to ensure that state companies are not wage leaders in relation to comparable private companies. The variable remuneration to the Executive Board may consist of shares or cash bonuses, but as a general rule the variable remuneration shall not exceed one quarter of the overall remuneration of the Director. Now it is the case that remuneration in the form of stock options and, to be precise, stock programmes are rarely used in the state. However, remuneration in the form of share programmes to the Executive Board can, under the right conditions, and if properly designed, contribute to ensuring the continued focus of directors on efficient operation, the company's long-term strategic development and the realisation of important projects. Similarly, share programmes for employees in the right circumstances, and if properly designed, can help to link the employee closer to the company and ensure that the desired results are anchored in the organisation. If share programmes are established in state companies, a number of criteria apply. A share programme shall only be complementary to the fixed salary and could be accommodated within the overall variable remuneration. Furthermore, a share programme should be linked to realised results over a multiannual period in order to support long-term value creation so as not to promote short-term or risky behaviour. The use of share programmes will also have to be based on a concrete assessment in the individual situation. Moreover, the State can only support share programmes if there is both a risk of loss and a potential for gain. This means that the State cannot support, for example. the use of unpaid allocation of share options, as it may encourage disproportionate risk-taking. This requirement makes the State a significantly more restrictive shareholder compared to private listed companies. Stock programmes in state companies have typically been established in connection with the sale and listing of state companies, e.g. Post Denmark from 2005 to 2009 and most recently DONG Energy. The purpose of this has been to give the management and employees the same interest as the State in operating the company with a focus on value creation for the benefit of shareholders. DONG Energy is currently available. the only state company that has a share programme. The maximum total salary for DONG Energy's board of directors is competitive with the share programme, but not a wage leader, and this is exactly in line with the principles of government ownership policy. However, the other state companies typically have a variable profit or loss payment paid in cash rather than shares. The decision on the privatisation of a company is therefore the sole responsibility of the Danish Parliament. It is not the case that, as the director or management of a State company, one can influence the decision whether to dispose of a State company and the pricing of a privatisation takes place by negotiation between the State as a seller and the buyers. The company and its management are therefore neither party to the privatisation decision nor to its pricing. Therefore, there appears to be no risk that the decision-making process for the final sale decision or listing of the stock exchange may be influenced by personal financial interests. If anything, a share programme can provide management with the right financial incentives to work for as high a valuation as possible, which is in the State's interest as shareholder. I therefore believe that the motion for a resolution can have the opposite effect of what was intended. Against this background, the government cannot support the proposal and, since the comments refer to the ownership programme in Nets, I would just like to point out that Nets is therefore not a state-owned company and that the resolution, which is aimed precisely at state companies, would have had no influence whatsoever on the incentive programme in Nets. In relation to the issue of employee options, which is paragraph 2 of the motion for a resolution, employee shares or stock options are often used in private listed companies as a means of linking employees closer to the company. In the right form and in the right scale, it can be a useful instrument for state companies to ensure that the desired results are anchored in the organisation. When introducing such employee programmes, the design shall follow the principles of State ownership policy. This means, for example, that an employee stock programme should not be too extensive and should be proportionate to the tasks performed. Furthermore, the use and design of the employee stock programme will always be based on a concrete assessment of the individual company's specific situation. In a company, for example, there may be: be a number of key employees who are not part of the management, but who may be at the heart of the company's development and value creation. It could, for example, be done. be project managers responsible for the construction of offshore wind farms with a total construction budget larger than the Fehmarn fixed link. A fixed ceiling on employee shares for such employees could make it difficult to offer a competitive wage in order to maintain these employees. I therefore believe, for the same reason, that it would not be appropriate to impose a ceiling on employee stock options and therefore cannot support that part of the proposal either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418171639	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418171643	Thank you. When Nets is mentioned in the comments on the proposal, it is because it is perhaps the case that has caused the most attention recently, in terms of how we have been able to see option programmes carried out in practice, that is to say, that you are a lucky press chief who is putting some money, and that is multiplied several times. At least I think that when Nets was listed, some shareholders got one over their noses. At least there was some dissatisfaction. However, when we table the resolution only on partly state-owned companies, it is also because we thought that it might not work out that we are making legislation for all types of companies. I don't think we'll get a majority for that. However, when we propose this, it is precisely to say that, of course, we must interfere in the functioning of state-owned companies. Then the Minister refers to the Company Act. But it is precisely the legislation that we want to change. I completely disagree with the Minister for Finance when he says that it will have the opposite effect. After all, it is a problem that people's private economy can come in and be a nuisance to both the company and the employees, and ultimately to society and taxpayers in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418171802	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418171804	I shall not be able to deny that I have referred to company law, but at least it is a mistake which does not appear in my speech papers. What I have referred to is the government's ownership policy, which was created by the then government in April 2015, which lays down a number of criteria for exactly how state-owned companies have a policy on what share programmes and employee stock option schemes should be to achieve the same objective that lies behind and that lies in the objective, namely that we do not get into a situation of some of the things that have been seen in the private market. I fully agree that we should not interfere in how private business owners choose to make a remuneration for their employees. We must interfere in what the taxation of it is. This has also been done by changing Parliament in the form of tax forms of share option programmes. But we should not interfere in the decor, i.e. whether they can make them or not. They must themselves be accountable to the market and to the other shareholders. However, what I am referring to is the booklet from just over two years ago which sets out how the State's share and ownership policy should be in the state-owned companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418171920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418171922	We can, of course, refer to what the law looks like today. But we have tabled this resolution because we do not think it is good enough. Now the Minister himself gave a few examples, and that is not because we have to go through the past, but there is the example of DONG exactly. There was, after all, a discussion which is still dragging on today as to whether the pricing was correct and correct. And is just the suspicion that there are some in the management layer who make decisions for their own private economy and not necessarily that it is the right pricing of the company, not a problem, sir. Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172006	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172009	In fact, I do not want to trample around DONG's sales, as the author's party helped shape DONG's sales, including the stock programmes in DONG's sales. It is the case that each time a specific sale is considered, a decision is also taken as to whether or not there should be a share programme in connection with a sale. So it's people in this room who, in specific cases, decide whether there should be one type or the other type. Therefore, there is no need to make legislation for ourselves, because we can just regulate it ourselves in everyday life. If we had to believe that there is no need to create a share pay programme in connection with a sale of a state company, we could just not. We can just not. It is a question of a majority in the Folketing behind it when a specific sale is made, where there must be a concrete decision through an act in the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee on how to dispose of a state company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172100	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172102	I think it's a little bit worrying that the Minister for Finance is so carefree about these stock options programs in the state companies and in general about these stock options programmes, including in the private companies. At any rate, this is something that I think the people are very much concerned about. It was also the case that when some of the first bank packages were carried out, some restrictions were actually made in those companies. So you've been down the road before, and I guess there's been a reason for that. When it comes to DONG, I think it might be a little premature for the Minister of Finance to simply reject the fact that there were some problems there, because we are counting on the Minister of Finance to confirm that the National Audit Office is looking at, among other things. the aspect of whether it has been in line with good business practice, one might say, by the state.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172151	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172154	There weren't much questions in it, so let's just take a political holm walk. I believe that the state must have a position when it comes to state companies, and so do they. It is set out in the State's ownership policy, a very thorough booklet of about 70-80 pages published in April 2015 and which I am entirely behind, even if it was not under my government, because it actually mentions very precisely that in specific cases you have to decide what you consider to be important in a sale in order to get the greatest possible value when you choose to sell a state company. If there are some key employees who are important to maintain the value of the company, then you can make a concrete model. Then you take a position on it, then you take an active position on it instead of creating a rigid system such as the one proposed here, where, without knowing the specific case, or the company to be sold, you put one system down on it. It's in my optics that you have to look at these sales individually and choose what gives society the greatest possible return along the way. And we have to do it because it is we who make the decision. It is neither the board of directors nor, for that matter, the board of directors, but we, as owners, decide whether a state company should be sold.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172307	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172309	In the case of DONG, it was the Ministry of Finance which approved these stock options programmes in a late-night period immediately before a sale agreement was concluded. Well, it was a deeply inflamed process that was going on there. The fact is that it is not true when the Minister of Finance says that senior employees have no influence whatsoever on how a company is valued. Of course they do. The value of DONG was written down by the new director, and the problem here, for example, is that he and other senior employees will have a conflicting interest, because if you take over shares at a time when they have a low value and then go to the Stock Exchange, then the prize will increase. In other words, there will be an interest in selling the company as cheaply as possible. That's not wise. It's stupid, and that's why the National Audit is looking at it now. And I find it worrying that the Minister of Finance is just sweeping it aside as completely unproblematic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172402	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172404	There is no director of a state company selling a state company. The owners do, the state does. It is we who sell state companies if they are to be sold. It's not a director. Well, I haven't said that a director isn't the key to how to value a company. On the contrary, I have just said that being able to associate some senior employees, some key employees, with a company determines what value it can have subsequently. And what did I say? I have said that if we are to have programmes in the state, the aim must be long-term value creation, not short-term, but multiannual. It is as if we are not listening to what is being said, and that may make the discussion more difficult. That is also why we just have to note that we do not agree with the proposers that it is a good idea to put a strict set of rules on it. We are still behind the set of rules that have been established and established in the State's ownership policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172501	Then it's mr. René Christensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172503	Thank you. I had not really prepared to ask the Minister anything, but anyway, following the discussion here: does the Minister think that directors of state-owned companies have too low wages, that is, that they simply have to make these stock options programmes if they are going to produce enough? After all, if you take DONG sales, the director had an annual salary of 8.5 million. kr. If a director gets 8.5 million. kr. In terms of annual salary, doesn't he work in the company's interest without getting stock options?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172532	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172534	I do not believe that state companies pay too badly, but that they pay competitively without being a wage leader. And it's important that they stay at that level. We have made a clear limitation on how much can be given in variable forms of remuneration, i.e. performance-based forms of remuneration. It can be maximum. be one quarter of the total wage package. We have also done so by saying that if there is to be a share in it, there must be both the risk of loss and the possibility of gain, so that those who, as it were, have an opportunity with a share programme also have the hand on the hot plate purely financially. I think that is important. When comparing wages, do not compare across state companies, but compare state companies with their private market competitors where there is a private market or with similar state companies in other parts of the world. And then you have to assess whether you have a competitive wage.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172635	I understand that, but it was more to get the Minister of Finance's opinion on it, what to say, and why it is felt that there may be situations where there is a need to have a stock option programme. Because if our directors, employed by state companies, work actively and loyally for the company, what is the reason why it may be necessary to make a share option program? I understand the Minister's argument that it is also to give such extra motivation, and then you say the opposite, namely that if there is no stock option programme, they may not do as much. Isn't it a bit to overrule the directors who are out there that they only provide something extra if they even • to use the minister's expression • have the hand on the hob?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172718	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172720	In fact, I believe that there are a great many, not only directors, but also other senior employees in the state, who have some form of bonus scheme in their pay package, i.e. result-based bonuses on how they are paid overall. This applies to management directors as well as to other senior employees. I do not think, as such, that you should be rewarded extra for doing your job. I think it should be part of the total pay package that is. Where it may be particularly interesting, there are some key employees who are crucial to the company's valuation, so that you can make sure they are linked to the company for longer and have an interest in being there for longer. There you can use some stock programs that ensure a long-term association of key employees to company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172808	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172810	Thank you to the Minister for explaining his position on this proposal. So what I find interesting about this proposal is that it focuses on the fact that there is a problem about employee options and stocks. Does the Minister not agree that this can help to create a distance to the population, for example? in relation to DONG, when there are stock options inside the picture, where DONG is valued too low, etc. and the value subsequently increases? Wouldn't the Minister agree that the possibility of stock options of this size might be surprising to the public?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172853	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418172854	In general, in the whole discussion on DONG, I do not agree that DONG was valued too low. What was, as it were, the starting point was that DONG was valued in relation to the market. There was an invitation to tender, and it was about who was gonna bid. When DONG is then recapitalised and gets rid of some debts, it will be possible to make some additional investments, some further steps, some further efficiency of the company, which will increase the value of DONG from there. So, in the whole discussion on whether DONG was valued too low, I do not agree with that premise. The question is whether it can be problematic to have stock programmes. Yes, it can, I recognize that. However, it is also in the ownership policy that was organised in 2015 that you have to be careful and think carefully in the state if you want to have stock programmes. It is not the case that I believe that share programmes are something that should be rolled out everywhere and that at all times it can be advantageous. However, it is a model which, in a specific case, can help to ensure a stronger link and a better operating result for the State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173000	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173002	Thank you for your answer. Then I would like to return to some of what the Minister said in his speech, namely that it is always beneficial to shareholders. I mean, when you sell or the company gets listed, it's because it's supposed to benefit shareholders. I mean, the imbalance that I think may be in it is that some people get some really good stock options so that they can run the company in the best possible way, so that there is as much profit as possible to shareholders. But that is a huge short-term perspective. To return to DONG: what do we want to do with DONG? We want DONG to be able to thrive for a very, very long time. We want them to be able to invest in green energy and something like that. But all of this is being done extremely short-sightedly, and that is what we reward the director and the employees for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173049	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173051	Exactly the last thing I want to arrest, because there is no natural law that makes stock programmes short-term. They can easily be made long-term, that is to say that you have to be in the company for a long time and that it has to be a stable development that triggers the possibility that you can get a gain out of these stock programmes. That is why I also said in my introduction that if the state is to use it, it must be based on long-term, long-term assessments of the result that is coming. I know that in some private companies there have been stock options which have been very short-term and where there has been an opportunity to get out of it quickly. That is why it is a different policy that the government is pursuing when it comes to state companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173133	Then I have no further brief comments on the list, so we thank the Minister for Finance and start with the rapporteur's series. The first is the Social Democrat rapporteur, and that is Mr. Benny Engelbrecht. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173145	Thank you, President. This resolution is based on a specific company's share programme, namely Nets. When you read the details there, I understand that you immediately think that we must avoid this happening in a state company. Therefore, I think it is essential to establish that the share programme in Nets does not meet the requirements laid down in the State's ownership policy and that the State would not be able to support such a programme if there were to be a proposal • from whichever source it should come to do something similar in a State-owned company. I also think it is essential to emphasise that Nets is not and never has been a State-owned company. With regard to the content of the motion for a resolution B 77, we in the Social Democratic Party believe that the current state ownership policy is adequate to address any issues of private economic incentives in sales or stock exchange listing. The State's ownership policy was reviewed in 2015 by the then government and finance minister and makes a number of recommendations for good corporate governance. It contains a number of concrete frameworks for share-based remuneration and share and incentive programmes. Share-based remuneration shall be intended to support effective and competent management of the company and shall help ensure long-term future value creation. There are a number of criteria that need to be met in order to use share programmes as part of the remuneration of state companies. Share-based remuneration is referred to as variable remuneration and must therefore represent only one quarter of management's salary and, in addition, remuneration must be linked to realised results over a multiannual period in order to avoid risky and short-term behaviour. At the same time, there must be a balanced risk of loss and chance of gain if you choose to use share-based remuneration. That is, if you choose to use it. In the end, share programmes cannot be launched without an act in the Finance Committee, and the few times it has been used in state companies over the past 25 years, this has also been done by requesting permission in the Folketing. It is a good and healthy principle, and it must of course be maintained. In addition to the specific framework of the State ownership policy, the State is also governed by the Companies Act, which states that it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to determine the remuneration of the board of directors, but that it is the general meeting and therefore the shareholders that must approve both the remuneration of the board of directors and the company's remuneration policy in general. It therefore gives the State, regardless of what it may, a responsibility to deal with the remuneration policy of each company and to intervene if it violates the current recommendations for good corporate governance. Finally, I would like to stress that a decision on the privatisation of a State company either through stock exchange listing or sale alone is the decision of the Folketing, and therefore the management and board of a State company do not affect the decision on the sale or pricing itself and cannot therefore be affected by private economic incentives as share programmes. In other words, the intentions of the motion for a resolution appear to have already been fulfilled and therefore the Social Democrats cannot support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173522	The first to make a brief comment is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173527	I think we disagree that the purpose of our motion for a resolution has been fulfilled. Otherwise, we would not have put it forward. I just want to ask you a very clear question. I think I misunderstood the Social Democrat rapporteur, because I suppose I should not understand the rapporteur's view that the details of a sale or a listing are laid down in the Parliament's Finance Committee? I thought it sounded like the Danish Parliament was involved in determining options programmes, variable pay conditions, conditions of sale, etc. on the Financial Committee. It was a misunderstanding on my part, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173609	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173610	What I said was that this can only be achieved if it is approved by means of an act of the Committee on Finance. It is clear that, regardless of its colour, the government must have a majority in order to be able to do so, and that is why it will also do so with the involvement of the Danish Parliament. I must therefore point out that the comments on the motion for a resolution state that, in the light of the ownership programme in Nets, we want to take the initiative to ensure that such speculation cannot happen in the future and then refer to state companies. There is, of course, the fact that I would like to begin by pointing out in my rapporteur's speech that if a proposal had been made on what is currently in Nets, it would not have been in the area of ownership policy, and so it would not have been possible to implement it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173703	What is described in the ownership policy for state companies is, after all, a bit like many other places, that there are some good custom rules. After all, we are rapporteurs in the same area and we are often exposed to this intermediate grey area, where it is not really about legislation, but where it is a grey area with recommendations about what is good behaviour and so on. After all, this is a matter of clarity in the law. There is shareholder law, there is legislation for companies, and we are interfering in some things. One could also interfere in this if one said: we simply do not think it is fair that one can put private, personal profit over the company's best interests. That is why my last question to the rapporteur is this: should it not require incredibly much self-discipline for a board member or a director to say: I fail to be involved in pricing this company so high, although I know that I am going to lose money on it because I am part of an option program that makes if I priced it much lower, I would earn a lot more money myself. Would that not require a great deal of self - discipline?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173817	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173820	Basically, you will not be able to carry out a stock option programme without coming and asking the Danish Parliament for anything at all. I think that is basically what matters. We need it as little as possible in the few cases where it is necessary. It has happened a few times in the past 25 years that it has been found necessary, and then one has been in the Folketing and asked to be allowed to do so. This means that it is not the board members who determine this, it is the owners, and in this case it is the state and thus the government and parliament. Firstly, this is a good and important principle. The second point about determining the value of a company is typically not something the company itself does. This will typically take place through external assessments.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173916	Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418173919	When the rapporteur says that through an act Parliament approved the bonus option programme, for example. In the case of the sale of DONG, the rapporteur therefore believes that the whole act was approved later. We know this from what has come to light. This was done in a late night hour; then the Ministry of Finance said it was good to set up this share option programme in connection with the agreement that was concluded, that is to say the purchase agreement or the share extension agreement entered into. So you would have had to reject the whole act if you had escaped this share option programme or the rapporteur will have to correct me. The rapporteur said the same thing as the Minister: that senior staff have no influence on pricing. I simply do not understand that. So, the new director of DONG, and this is some of the things that have been criticized violently since then, helped to write down the value of DONG significantly immediately before the share expansion, after which the value magically increased from the following day forward to the stock exchange quote, which then put 10 billion. kr. into Goldman Sach's pocket and made a significant profit to the director and other senior employees in DONG. In other words, what does the rapporteur mean by this is that there is no influence on pricing? I simply do not understand that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174033	It is typically external partners who make a valuation if you need to make such an assessment. I guess so, by the way, sir. Pelle Dragsted was very critical of the fact that it was the external partners concerned who made the valuation in question. So it can be said that there has been a great deal of debate about this, even here in the Parliamentary Chamber, because it was precisely the case that this matter was dealt with not only in the Committee on Finance but also in the Parliamentary Assembly. Then it is the case that if you have a piece of paper that you foresee going through the Danish Parliament, you will typically try to have an agreement made by a majority in the Danish Parliament prior to acting; otherwise it is that it runs the risk that it will not be able to get an act through. And it is my impression that in the few cases where there have been stock options programmes, the current government has always ensured that there was parliamentary support for the actions it took.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174141	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174143	It is true that an external pricing was made, but it is done on the basis of the company's state of affairs, and this condition relates, among other things, to the depreciations carried out in the months and years up to; it is therefore something that is influenced as a senior employee. So it seems to me that you may like those stock options programmes or not, but there is a risk of • and I hope that the rapporteur will recognize that situations may arise where there are conflicting interests that should not be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174211	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174213	That's why you have to make share options programmes at all. I think you have to do that to the minimum, that is, only when it is strictly necessary, and history also shows that it is very rare to use it, based on the fact that it supports a long-term economic return on a company. As I have said, I think that one should be very, very careful about using this kind of option programme, but completely disclaiming the possibility of it would also be wrong.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174245	Thank you, sir. Benny Engelbrecht. There are no more brief comments. We shall now proceed to Mr. René Christensen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174259	We are discussing a proposal for stricter requirements for employee shares and options in state-owned companies. This is, of course, an interesting debate, but this is not a discussion paper. It is a motion for a resolution. I would say that it would in fact have been better suited to a question debate in which we could have discussed how to do this in the future, because concrete proposals are also being put forward here. Apart from that, it is an important debate to take, as the previous rapporteurs who have been on it have also said. There is no doubt that we in the Danish People's Party clearly believe that it is a challenge to make these stock options programmes, especially in state-owned companies. DONG is a really, really good example of this, and we can see what it has ended up with. We should not be sorry that things have gone well, but what has actually happened is that we have gained a profit of up to 0.5 billion. kr. And there is no doubt that, of course, the management of the company also helps to inform and guide the government in place at any time, if you are to sell a state company, also in connection with pricing. No doubt about it. It can't be discussed. So I fully agree with the previous rapporteurs and the Minister that it will end up with an act being drawn up over in the Committee on Finance to which we can then vote 'yes' or 'no'. If you remember the case of DONG, then it was not a question of what was in the file. It was an act of which there were 90 seats, and if you wanted to go beyond the 90 seats, you could vote yes or no or you could not. It has to be said that the proposal here has perhaps also been put forward because the SF has become clever with damage, because there is no doubt that it was the then government that had nodded yes to there having to be the share options programmes. After all, it was not because neither Goldman Sachs nor DONG's leadership had said that this should be the case. You have probably had a very, very great wish that this should be so, but there is no doubt that it was then the government that nodded yes to it at the end, and that is why the act looked like it did. But apart from that, it's interesting to see how this might look forward. Can we face a similar situation again? We really do not want that particularly when we look back on a case like that concerning DONG. Although this is not a very long resolution, we believe that there are some technical challenges in it. There is talk, for example. whether partly owned companies - but if you do not have the majority shareholding, it can be difficult to go in and control it. That is why, in view of the work of the committee, I think that perhaps more thought should have been given to drawing up a report and looking at how we can proceed with it. Because I have to say that I do not agree with the technique of the motion for a resolution, but I very much agree with the intention of looking at how to prevent people from getting back into these situations. I would also like to say that the Danish People's Party is of the opinion that in state-owned companies we have loyal management and that we also have loyal directors who receive a reasonable and good salary. We have some pay terms that are good, and that's why we don't think it's necessary to make these types of stock options to make them give the last to deliver what you expect. The Danish People's Party hopes and believes that we pay the salary that our employees are worth, including in our companies, and that is why, of course, they also have to deliver what Parliament can expect from the state-owned companies. But, of course, we welcome the discussion and will use the committee work to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174636	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174639	I just want to thank you for the rapporteur's speech. And even though the Danish People's Party does not agree with what to say, the whole internship in how it could be done, I think it is a really exciting proposal to work on it in committee and take it from there and see if we can move on along that path. Because it doesn't necessarily have to be exactly this shape. But it is precisely as I heard the rapporteur say quite precisely that when you have such heavy incentive programmes, of course you are looking for it. That is how most politicians in this Chamber think, that is, if you give people a huge financial gain by acting in one way or another, they do. And that's exactly the problem with these options programs, which we also saw with, among other things. DONG. So it's actually mostly a thank you to Mr. René Christensen. We would very much like to look at it in committee and see if we can move on with it. I also did not quite have the feeling that it was voted through here in the Parliamentary Chamber, but I am pleased with DF's interest in working on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174751	Does that give rise to a comment? Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174754	I would really like to answer that, because one of the things that needs to be noticed is, among other things, one of the things that needs to be borne in mind. The opinion of DONG's director, who was given a very, very large share option programme. Afterwards, he says he didn't really need that money. I mean, he's got so much work to do that it's not really the economy that's the challenge. And that actually supports the question of what kind of discussion we are going to have. We need to have a discussion that we get the best managers, that we get the best decision-making basis when we go out and possibly trade with state companies. And we in the Danish People's Party do not believe that this is what drives it. And we acknowledge that the wages that are in state-owned companies must be at a level, so of course you have loyal employees, and we expect you to have that too, even without stock options programmes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174838	Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174844	Now come mr. René Christensen a little bit into this at the end, but couldn't DF fear that if we make a legislation aimed at state companies that will have some other options than private companies have in relation to the remuneration of e.g. In the future, will we be able to find it difficult to attract the right competences to state companies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418174916-2	No, I am not so afraid of that, particularly in relation to the comment I made in relation to the director of DONG, who says that that was not what drove him. In other words, we are not talking about such ordinary wages, we are talking about wages, which are almost two-digit millions of dollars, compared to the annual salary of these people, and there is not the latest stock option programme that does this, but it is also about what kind of position you get and what kind of company you get into. This is an American way of thinking. We could also see that clearly in connection with the sale of DONG, where there was a wish from Goldman Sachs that you should have these stock options programmes. We believe that you can get loyal and good employees by giving them a decent and good salary, and then you have to remember that it doesn't always have to go that way with stock options programmes, that things are going well and that you get rich from it. It may also be that it goes the other way and that it does not make you rich. So I think we have to stick to the line we have, where we give a fair and good gage, also to the directors we have in state companies.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175010	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175012	It is quite true that it can go both ways with such options. Is it DF's view that legislation should be made on the basis of what one person in this case DONG's former director says about a share option program? So, is that enough for us to change the legislation in the light of that? I think that may seem a little thin. And if it is the case that there is no need to make stock options programmes, then you shouldn't do it either. We are in total agreement with that. After all, there is no reason to give someone a higher salary than is needed in order to get the right skills. But that is not an argument for us then to go in and legislate that we should not. Why should we tie ourselves to our hands like that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175110	That is also why I started by saying in my rapporteur's speech that this might be more suitable for a question debate and that we would like to take it in committee. Because where are we going to land it? Well, how do we get this done so we don't get out in these situations again? In fact, the Danish People's Party believes that we have a challenge in relation to the sale of DONG. We have a feeling and a belief that one can be influenced by it when one helps to price a company. When you, what are we to say, have played your full annual salary into the record in this case large amounts of millions from the management, and we talk 250 employees, you also have an interest, of course, that the pricing will be as low as possible, because afterwards you will also get as high a profit as possible. That is what this is all about, and that is why we think it is quite real that the SF is tabling this motion for a resolution. However, we would rather have a dialogue on this. Because where are we going to land it? Is this supposed to be a ban? Where are we gonna put it? But there is no doubt that today we really do not have a political discussion, and we saw that with the DONG document. It is true that it has to be approved in the Committee on Finance, but there is really no room for a political debate. We will have room for that discussion in committee, and we will take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175215	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, who comes from the Danish Liberal Party, Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175231	Thank you. I really think it has been well described and explained by both the Minister for Finance and Benny Engelbrecht of the Social Democratic Party... about the technology and the background to the possibilities of using these programmes in the context of state ownership. So I shall not repeat all these technicalities and just make a few comments on what the Left's view of this is like. As the Minister for Finance also mentioned, the guidelines and thus also the framework, it can be said, are already enshrined in a policy of ownership here today. It's just like getting the proportions right. It's not like you do that every day or every year. It is almost a rare thing to use those opportunities, but there may of course be special circumstances, special situations where this is so. That is why I think it is important that we also have that opportunity if it makes sense, but it must of course also be in the few cases if necessary. I see no problem in having the opportunity within this framework, as we have just agreed under the auspices of the Danish Parliament, where we lean on some of the recommendations made by the OECD and other excellent organisations. For as Mr. René Christensen also mentioned, you can also give a fixed salary at a reasonable level, but then I see no problem in taking a smaller part and it is as a maximum a quarter and says that the part of the total pay package can then depend on the result that you deliver. It does so to say that both we as owners, i.e. we as owners. the state in this case, and the director or other senior employee who can be considered for these stock programmes will be in the same boat. As the Minister for Finance said, you have your hand on the hot plate, so you are in the same boat you can pull in the same direction. Of course, one can say that one should do that in any case, and I think that this is the case in most cases, but in the end it is also a political decision, and that means that a majority in this House will have to decide whether or not to do these programmes in the state-owned companies, but also, ultimately, whether or not they can be triggered in this way, at least in the case of a share programme which is dependent on a sale which we have already mentioned regarding DONG's situation, etc. It is, of course, the best guarantee, one can say that it is the elected parliament, in this case the Folketing, that can manage such things. That is why I do not really think there is any reason why we should opt out of that option, but, as I said, we already have this definition or framework in the ownership policy, which, as you know, is leaning on the recommendations which, among other things, have been made. The OECD and the Committee on Good Corporate Governance have given. So, from this point of view, we in the Left are not so surprisingly able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175543	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175546	Thank you. Just one more time for Prince Canute: that is, it is not in the Finance Committee that you sit and set out the details of a sale or a listing and option programmes, or whatever it may be, so in principle there may be some who would sit and approve an act in the Finance Committee, even if they really thought that the process had been completely unfair; but you only have the option of either approving or not approving it. Well, that aside. The Left is usually a party that says that people should be given incentives, and that is why you have to put down the cash benefits and all sorts of other benefits, because then you encourage people, then you give them some incentives. Mr. Does Jacob Jensen not think that it is a strange incentive for anyone who has an influence on pricing and thus has an interest in keeping prices down, to have option programmes where it might be for the best of the company or the state, the taxpayers, that the price was set correctly? Isn't that a completely strange and socially damaging incentive to have? That is actually the reason for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175657	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175658	The first is that you should sit in the Committee on Finance and simply make a decision because you do not feel that you have any influence: then you have to make the decision you think is the right one or ask about it. There is ample opportunity for that. Fortunately, that is why we have that mechanism. So I simply do not recognise the fact that you have to sit in the Committee on Finance and simply make a decision on something that, after all, you have no influence on. In relation to what is being asked here under the second part, and I think that it is probably DONG that the questioner is revolved about, I would say: it is, of course, as several people, including the Minister of Finance, have said, not the Director, who decides whether these things should be triggered, i.e. whether to sell DONG. It is not the director who sets the price for DONG, it is the one who buys DONG or the shares in DONG that will be put up for sale. And if it were to trigger a sale, then again it is a majority in this House that has to make that decision, because it is like that which is the whole point. It is certainly a state-controlled company, and that is why it is also the majority of the Folketing that takes a decision which, if we speak DONG, must trigger an option of what was the case. So I do not accept the premise that we are simply making some decisions without any influence whatsoever on them and that control lies under the auspices of the Danish Parliament, so I think that is quite good and safe.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175818	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418175820	Now I just have to repeat what my colleague Mr. Pelle Dragsted also mentioned. It is quite clear what happened to DONG in relation to the pricing; it can be influenced in many ways. But we do not need to talk about the concrete example. I would like to talk about the fact that an incentive is given to someone in decision-making bodies to keep a price down, because then they earn as much as possible. It's a weird situation to put someone in. I don't know who has enough self-discipline. Jacob Jensen to miss a three-digit million amount because he said: No, I'd better set this company right. Oh! It just sounds like we don't, and this is my last question, have any rules or legislation in this area at all. Well, we do. We have rules on how companies should behave, how to behave towards their shareholders, what to disclose in their financial statements, etc., a lot of things, to make the market slip and to ensure some fairness. That is also why there are rules on insider dealing and so on. etc. This would just be a rule to ensure that you didn't have to stand in a crossroads and have to choose between having to follow your own personal interests and something else. We could see that it happened with the incentive rules presented by Goldman Sachs, because then it will naturally be the most favorable or desirable partner you choose if a very generous incentive programme is put on the table, and it will not necessarily be what is at the best price, or the best sales process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180007	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180009	I do not recognise that it should be said that it has not been properly priced. Now the rapporteur again refers to the DONG situation and says that there should have been a wrong pricing on the basis of some personal financial incentive. I think that is simply too far-fetched. I do not recognise that this should be the case. But, more generally and to be a little bit constructive about that, I think it is of course important to discuss what it is then for some options and ways of linking up such programmes. That is precisely why we have this framework, one might say, in the policy of ownership, which is enshrined and which, like some of the recommendations made by the OECD and others, leans on. It is important, then, that I admit that the way in which the programmes are drawn up is the way in which we, as owners, also have an interest. There are a number of examples, and we have done so and whether we believe that this has been the case or not, we can discuss them. But it is absolutely right, of course, that a stock programme should be drawn up in a way if one chooses to do what draws and gives the incentive that is in the interest of the owner and, in this case, in the interest of the state. I think we are in agreement on this, after all, and we must then take care to do so if we are to use such programmes in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180123	Thank you, sir. Jacob Jensen. No one else was praying for short remarks. The next one is sir. Pelle Dragsted from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180133	Thank you, President. In Enhedslisten we support in SF's good proposal to shut down this completely crazy and, we believe, economically unhealthy use of share options in state or partly state companies by changing the state ownership policy as we know it today. The example of Nets has been mentioned, which is, after all, a quite absurd example in which, after a short period of service, senior staff could run off with 3 billion. kr. Yes, even a press manager became a multimillionaire, while the director alone ran at 0.5 billion. kr. It's crazy, and it's obscene. The leaders who have participated in this should simply be ashamed. As I said, Nets is not a state company, but when it is relevant as an example, I think one can ask oneself: is this a culture that we want to support in state companies? We talk a lot about how it should be worthwhile to work. I don't think anyone disagrees with that claim and that hard work should be rewarded. Well, these bonus programs and stock options are the opposite. 0.5 billion kr. is more than any hardworking Dane will be able to earn throughout his life. After all, hundreds or perhaps thousands of human ages would have to be worked hard. So when a warehouseman or a carpenter or a SOSU or an industrial technician can see a director running at 0.5 billion. kr., it's like saying to them, "You're not worth anything." Your work is worth nothing. That's the signal you send. Unfortunately, there are examples of this, including in state companies. One of them has, of course, been mentioned, DONG, which the National Audit Office is currently examining, among other things. the reliability of the share options programmes established, which in fact meant that the management of DONG had an interest in the share expansion, where they also got their shares, to value DONG as low as possible, because that would mean that the return on the day DONG went to the Stock Exchange would increase. And so was it. DONG's director can pick up only somewhere between 20 and 27 million. kr. So it gave a completely wrong incentive in this, which is why it is actually an extremely important discussion that the SF is raising here. It is not just because it is immoral, it is actually because we risk turning it into a bad state policy of commerce. We do not believe in the Enhedslisten at all that we should dispose of the Community's companies, but when we do so, the least one can expect is that one makes proper merchanthood. And that's why it's so crucial to make up for the possibilities of these stock options for senior employees in connection with stock quotes. It is often said that management staff are motivated by these programmes up to a stock exchange listing because they have their own hand on the hob, as it is said, that if it becomes a good stock exchange listing, they score more money. But I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. So, do we have to buy the premise that it is necessary to reward with share options programmes from the management of these companies? General employees will not be gilded, and it is expected that a proper effort will be made. It is like this premise that the richest people are more motivated by getting even richer, while people who do not earn so much are motivated by becoming even poorer. We would like to see a complete stop to this type of programme in state-owned companies. In fact, we don't even think it's a good idea to keep this ceiling of DKK 50,000, and we can't quite understand why the senior employees shouldn't have a ceiling and should like to have larger option programs until they have to dispose of them in connection with a stock exchange quote. In addition, we believe that we should not only talk about stock options, but also about the development of wage levels. For the development we see in these years, when a small elite at the top, also in state companies, runs completely away from all other Danes who go to work, we think is an unhealthy development, and we should also talk about how we take action against it. But now, the SF's proposal is an attempt to make a hopeless situation better, and that is why we are in favour, although we also believe that it could be made even more far-reaching than what has been proposed in the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180646	Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180659	Thanks for the speech. I do not, in fact, disagree with everything that has been said here by Mr Seligman. Pelle Dragsted. I also believe that some of the amounts paid out to directors of state-owned companies have been quite unreasonable. And I think, in particular, that it is unreasonable to have seen some companies where very large amounts of money have been paid out to managers who have not done well. As a starting point, I do not have the big problem of management being rewarded if they are doing well, but it is very insulting to taxpayers that large amounts of money are being paid out to managers who deliver poor results. Where I cannot follow Enhedslisten is in the fundamental opposition to companies' management having some shares, because this helps to ensure a convergence of interests; it is precisely to ensure that the managers think no differently from the owners, i.e. The taxpayers and the state. For the interest of the state when selling a company is to get the highest possible price, and if that is also the interest of management, what is the problem in terms of structure?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180754	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180755	I understand the premise, but what we saw as the problem and what has been discussed in relation to DONG and the reason why the Reichsaudit, among other things, was. And looking at that point now is that you were in a situation where you had to make an increase in capital, and in doing so you had to value the company. At the same time, this stock option programme was introduced, and it is clear that when you do it at the same time, you get an opposite incentive, which is that if you keep the price quite low at the time when you make the capital increase and the stock option programme, the profit is greater when you go on the stock market some years later. That is the criticism that has been raised in DONG's case. But it is clear that in relation to a company that is not on the stock exchange or that is just driving, you can easily buy Mr. Rasmus Jarlov's argument. Then I have some other such more moral arguments, in relation to how wage developments are, including in state companies. But that is more the second thing I am concerned with, and that is also why I am reading the SF's proposal here, which is aimed primarily at state companies, which are about to be completely or partially privatised, and where, therefore, these distortions in incentives can arise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180907	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418180910	Thank you. I think that is an intelligent criticism directed at a very specific way of organizing a stock option program, that is, that there may well be built-in mistakes in it that companies may have an interest in keeping the price low in a stock exchange introduction, if they can sell stocks later and then get an increase. I think that is a real criticism. I do not think it is possible to deduce from this that we should vote in favour of the SF resolution, because it says in general terms that the directors of state-owned companies should not have shares at all. And compared to just having some shares in a company that goes on the stock exchange or is otherwise sold to another owner, we do not see that issue. And that's why I agree that you have to be very careful how to set up these profit and loss, stock options, etc. In general terms, however, however, to write it off as an instrument which can help to serve the interests of taxpayers and citizens in particular, I do not think there has been any convincing argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181011	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181013	Now I see the SF's proposal as being primarily in the context of stock market quotations, because that is at least what the comments say. However, let me try to take the matter more in principle. What is typically with share option programmes is not just that one gets part of one's salary or other paid out in shares, but it is typical that there are some bonus schemes that make it double that is at least what was the case with DONG. And there is more to it about the general public position, as the rapporteur himself said, on what is reasonable. For it is ultimately tax dollars, if I may say so, or part of the gain that had otherwise gone to the community, which owns the company, which is then used for private purposes. And we have, for example. Seen an example such as Nets, which is not public, but where a press manager excuses me, I myself have had a similar job title after having been 11⁄2-2 years, I think, in the post could earn a two-digit or larger million amount on a share option program; I think it was over 100 million. kr. I don't think it should happen in a public company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181114	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181120	I just want to thank you for those nice words. And then the rapporteur is quite right to say that this resolution is very narrowly aimed at the specific situation in which a state-owned or partly state-owned company is heading for a sale or listing, that is, a situation in which senior employees, i.e. those with decision-making powers, should have been defined a little more closely than that, cannot have stock options programmes, and that all possible other employees in that situation should not exceed that. Must have for 50,000 kroner. So it is in the specific situation, and it is not about otherwise there should be no ceiling. I think that the stock options programmes are simply totally unfair. It creates some strange incentives, and sometimes you find friends in the strangest places. For Anders Dam from Jyske Bank, it is also a complete bizarre construction that gives some very, very strange incentives. Well, this isn't about "and that's where I think I'm gonna share Mr. Simpson's opinion." Pelle Dragsted's views on how else the system has been arranged that we have a broad criticism of how the capitalist system has been set up, etc. This, and I'm actually saying that to Mr. Knox. Rasmus Jarlov, is very narrowly aimed at that it provides some completely wrong incentives in relation to the sale or listing of a public company. We can also take the other discussions, but it is really just to reply to the rapporteur here it is specifically directed at a sales or stock exchange listing process, also in relation to the remaining employees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181308	At the risk of getting myself into something here, I would say that not long ago I sloped a text written by the latest winners of the Nobel Prize in economics, I think it was, or some of the earlier ones. They had just researched these incentive programmes, and although they had previously been very much in favour of them, they had discovered that in a large number of cases it was not wise to have this kind of remuneration for managers, even in private companies. So there is also an exciting research where it is discussed whether there are even these incentives in what has been widely believed, just as there are so many other economic dogmas in these years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181355	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Pelle Dragsted, so we're gonna go over to mr. Joachim B. Olsen as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181406	Thank you for that, President. With this proposal, SF will introduce a requirement that shares or stock options in state companies be sold by the management before a sale of the company. SF will also set a ceiling of DKK 50,000. for employee options. Personally, I can also sometimes be puzzled or rather fascinated when I hear about some of the bonuses paid in different companies. I also think that sometimes mistakes occur, that is to say, there are some bonus programmes that pay off bonuses that do not match the value created by a company's management. I think that's what I'm talking about. But if that were the pervasive trait, these bonus programs wouldn't exist. For why should a management of a company agree to pay someone in the company a higher salary than there are values for? That doesn't mean there's no mistake. There may be errors both in relation to the payment of large bonuses, and there may also be errors in relation to not having good enough programs so that you cannot attract the right employees etc. But the great thing about a market is that over time it corrects itself because no one has an interest in wasting resources. As I said, this is about state companies, and I think it would be stupid if the Danish Parliament passed a law which only applied to state companies. I believe that we would thereby write off some options that I cannot understand there should not be. After all, it is up to management and owners, including in state companies, to decide what kind of remuneration structure you want. And, as I understand it, there are different remuneration structures and bonus structures in different state companies. After all, it allows you to try different structures and find out what works best, and you can also adjust the remuneration to suit the individual company and the market that the company is in relation to the skills that the company should be able to attract. That is why I do not think that this resolution would bring anything particularly good with it if it were adopted. Because we already have the opportunity, and so does the management of state companies, to decide what kind of bonus structure you want. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181726	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181730	I would very much have liked to have formulated the resolution, so that applies to all companies, including private ones, if I had expected support from the Liberal Alliance to come on that front. I guess I didn't. But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says that we should not do anything specific for state-owned companies, which should not also apply to private companies. At least that's how I heard it. But Mr. Joachim B. Olsen not that state-owned companies are special because it is precisely we who create the framework? The state is the owner and we really need to manage taxpayers' money as sensibly as possible. Then you can say that they must, even if it is in private, where there are private shareholders and general meetings where the rules are adopted. Do we not have a special responsibility when it is state companies and we must ensure that taxpayers' money is managed in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418181834	First of all, I would just like to say that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen and the rest of the left normally believe that pay and working conditions are only a matter between the company and the employees of the company. I really think that is a very good principle, and that is why I do not understand why Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen is now saying that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen would like that to apply to private companies. For wages and working conditions, it is probably something to be agreed between the company and the company's employees. I suppose this applies to both those who work on the floor, as they say, and those who sit on the board of directors. Do we have a special responsibility for state companies? Yes, we do, because it is we who own the state companies; it is the state that owns them. But that responsibility is no different than it is for private companies. It is, of course, about the decisions taken in companies being responsible; that we make sure that we can get the right people to sit in the management of those companies so that they can operate on market conditions, that is. preferably with profit. There are a large number of rules that apply specifically to state companies, what they may, etc. But when we have state companies in a market, I do not think we should have a regulation that makes it harder for us, for example. to attract the labour force and skills we need. I think that would be irresponsible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182010	I hear sir. Joachim B. Olsen says that yes, we have a special responsibility when it is state-owned companies and that we must manage the citizens' money in the best way possible. However, we can see that there are incentive programmes that discourage the company's interest and the interests of employees and the state as owner and citizen. Should it not then be done there and therefore only keep it to be a motion for a resolution that applies to state companies, so to say that we simply cannot have programmes that provide incentives to set low prices; to put our own personal economy higher than the company's well-being, in terms of not pricing the company properly? So, isn't that exactly the opposite of protecting the company, protecting the owners, who are the state, and protecting the taxpayers and citizens of this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182121	Well, this resolution is all about state corporations. And no, no companies, either state or private, have an interest in having a bonus structure that means that you cannot get the right price for the company in the event of a sale. Now it is almost such a truth that this was the case with DONG, because that is what Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen refers to, but I do not think that is a truth. I know that this view has been raised in the public debate, but it is not true. The price of DONG will not be set by the management. It's being put off the market. It is the market that sets the price, as was the case with DONG. But all owners of companies have an interest in having the right pay structure, including bonus structure. And, as I said at the outset, there is a fairly certain error in a market, both where you set a bonus structure or a wage structure too high or too low, but I do not think that is an argument for us to go in and make a special regulation that should only apply to state companies. I just don't think anything good will come of that. If there is something to be learned from the DONG case, we have every possibility of doing so. Those who participated in the negotiations and helped to approve these bonus structures are members of Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen's own party, so there is plenty of experience, and I am sure that the Ministry of Finance will also pick up the experience and use it sometime when it comes to selling state companies. Because I understand that this is part of the government's plan, and I am very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182311	Thank you, sir. Joachim B. Olsen, and welcome to Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182317	Thank you. We are now here to consider SF's proposal for a parliamentary resolution on stricter requirements for employee shares and options in state-owned companies. It is a proposal both for senior employees to sell shares and stock options in the company if a state-owned company is to be sold or listed on the stock market, and it is also about setting a ceiling for employee options of 50,000 for other employees in connection with sales or stock exchange listing. I would like to thank the SF for putting this debate on the agenda. Perhaps I would also have liked us to have taken it as a question debate instead, because I think it contains a great many things that are important to discuss on this occasion. Like one of the previous rapporteurs, it is about stock options and amount and bonus schemes of this nature for me to see in reality an enormously old-fashioned approach to management and motivation of employees. We know that research projects have been carried out on what, in general, says that this is not crucial, and that is one of them. Some of what I think could be really interesting to discuss. If, as I said, I am, of course, glad that SF takes it up, it is also because it is taxpayers' money, and it is important that they are used well and properly, and that is why it is important that we do not see cases where stock options bouncing on totally unfair terms that benefit individuals in that way. I also think that was one of the things I said in my question to the Minister for Finance, in that I still think stock options in this way create some unfortunate incentives to think only short-term profits in companies and also in state companies instead of a more healthy long-term optimisation. The debate I would also like to have is about what it is at all for some companies we think we should sell, which should not be in state hands anymore. I also think it might be really interesting to discuss that when we decide to sell, how do we make sure that all or part of the companies do not end up in tax havens? lately, we have seen it with the Statens Serum Institut and when you sell, how is it to ensure a tender process where you get the right price and the right one, I will allow myself to say ethical buyer in relation to a state company? Having said these things, we are not against employee shares and options, but that is not what I read in the SF's proposal either. However, we have seen such a thought that it could be beneficial to support that employees are also co-owners of their workplace. We would like a broader discussion of it and would actually like to put it up to the SF if we could make a report that points forward in relation to the further issues that are also, so that we could aim a little wider than just the two things mentioned here. So these must be my words.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182639	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock, there are no brief comments. Then it is a special pleasure to welcome Mr. Kristian Hegaard from the Radical Left, who now has the opportunity to give his rapporteur's speech. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182710	Thank you for the relevant question raised. This is, of course, about the not insignificant schism between general incentive schemes, competitiveness, professional boards and the consideration of the element of whether those who have shares or stock options and work for a possible sale or a listing on the stock market do so for the best interests of the state or for personal gain. All considerations are relevant to observe. It is of course important that the sale and listing of companies wholly or partly owned by the State should always be in the public interest. We have the greatest interest in this, and I have not heard anyone argue against it today. Conversely, if, as proposed, disposal is to take place before a given sale or listing takes place, it cannot be ruled out that the corresponding employees, if they do not wish to sell at that time, may, for their own gain, oppose sales or stock exchange listing. And this can also be done against the interests of the state, against the interests of taxpayers and so on. So the debate is not straightforward, as has otherwise been proposed. As has been pointed out in the debate, there are already some principles in the area of qua state ownership policy, state share programmes and general practice when it comes to good corporate governance. We look forward to discussing the matter further. The amount limit now seems somewhat randomly set, and we look forward to discussing this on a later occasion. It is not entirely transparent why a limit of DKK 50,000 should be set. But thank you for raising the matter. It has been a preliminary interesting debate on a topic worth discussing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182852	Thank you, sir. Kristian Hegaard, I believe that was his maiden speech. No, it wasn't). Well, thank you anyway. At least that was the first time I heard Mr. Kristian Hegaard. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Jarlov of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418182913	We do not support the resolution. We agree that there is reason to be very wary of excessive bonuses paid to managers in publicly owned companies. And I also think that some of the sums paid in the past have been too heavy. In particular, it seems wrong that large bonuses have been paid out to managers who do not deliver good results. The result wage is healthy, but it must of course be tied up to the fact that you actually deliver good results. The aim of the profit and loss pay is to reconcile the interests of the management of a company with the interests of the owners of the company in this case the Danish citizens, the Danish society. And we think that the fact that management has shares actually helps to ensure that management has the same incentive that society has when selling companies. Because as management has shares, management will be interested in the sale price being as high as possible. It is the same interest that society has in selling a publicly owned company, which is why we see no conflict of interest in the sale of companies in which the company's management has shares. The criticism raised by SF and the rest of the left here may be more relevant in the context of fixing stock options programmes. Here we need to pay close attention to how to do it, and there are a lot of opportunities to screw option programmes together incorrectly so that we do not get the right incentives. There may be an incentive to maximise in the short term a result at the expense of a long-term value in a company, depending on where the time limit for the redemption of options is set. There may also be an incentive to keep the price down if you screw option programs incorrectly together. So we should certainly be aware of how to do that. But that managers have shares in companies, we actually think is healthy, and we also think that option programs can be used positively for the benefit of the citizens of Danish society, for the benefit of the owners. I thought there was one more thing I wanted to say, but I think I'll leave it at that so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183136	It may come under the brief remarks. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183141	Thanks for the speech. Now Mr. After all, Rasmus Jarlov talks about various things that our two parties and the rapporteur and I certainly disagree about, in other words how companies should be put together, incentive programmes and all sorts of things. However, I still think I heard the rapporteur express a little sympathy with the niche proposal, which it almost is, namely that in the specific situation where taxpayers' money is to be taken care of, we cannot have programmes that provide an incentive to set too low prices. If anyone comes with us at all, this is not a discussion about the causes of capitalism, or how to invest, or what to have of wages and bonuses and all sorts of things. I think this is a really exciting discussion, but I know that we are very divided about that here in the Danish Parliament. So this is quite specific: we are trying to take care of taxpayers' money in the situation that may come back, because the government has, of course, proposed it, namely that state companies should be sold, privatised or listed on the stock exchange. It is only for the public's confidence in us to be totally destructive if they do not agree politically or not that something has to be privatised. So it is actually more to clarify the rules of the game in the specific situation and not a major discussion about the causes and context of capitalism in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183327	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183329	I do not think I was talking about any general discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of capitalism in my speech; I think I kept very strict on what the proposal here is about: ownership of shares and stock options for managers of state-owned companies that face a sale. There Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen now says that it is a question of avoiding incentives to keep the price of companies low when the company is sold. I am not fully aware of this in the wording of the proposal, because the motion for a resolution states that there must be a requirement that the company's management should not have shares in the company when the company is sold. And if the company's management has shares in the company, they have just an incentive to get the price high, and that is why it is especially the element that a company's management must not have shares that bother me in the resolution. If you had stuck alone to the fact that it was about stock options, I would have been more sympathetic to it, because only by the options can there be an incentive to keep the price low, and I think that is a real issue. But I cannot see, in relation to the fact that the management has some shares, that it is harmful; on the contrary, it helps them to be interested in the sale price being as high as possible, because when they own something they are interested in it being as valuable as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183453	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183456	We can easily discuss the layout if that is what depended on whether the Conservatives would support it. It can be said that there may be a few specific and concrete reasons for the resolution • most recently Nets. We have discussed many times whether Nets is or is not a state company, but it has become so extreme when you see these programs for a stock exchange quote. However, specifically with regard to state companies, I would like to say that many years ago, the head of the TDC received a very significant reward for selling to American capital funds. And then there was that thing with DONG. The suspicion about why one has acted, which one has as head or board member, could of course be ripped out of the equation by saying that then we ensure that they try to act neutrally and for the good of the company, state, owners or employees, and that it is one's ordinary, boring, but very, very high general salary that one can then enjoy in the intervening period.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183609	If you removed management's salary completely, you could of course avoid having any suspicion that they were working for anything other than the good of society, and if you take an intermediate solution where you only remove part of the salary, you might also face some of it, but it is of course a balance of whether you really think that the risk of suspicion is large enough to give state-owned companies the handicap that they cannot use this tool to attract the best managements, and to make a alignment of incentives for management and owner. And there we are not convinced that the benefits outweigh the disadvantages of the SF resolution here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183656	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183658	I would actually like to take this opportunity to ask a more ideological question, because now I have noticed that the former Conservative MP, Per Stig Møller, who became a minister, has been criticizing the developments in Danish chief offices, i.e. these exploding bonus programmes and the very, very high salaries for top managers and such things. I find that interesting, and that is actually what my question is about. Does the rapporteur agree with any of what has been said by Per Stig Møller? And are we again on the way to a situation where we can see a slight difference, because I have certainly had difficulty in looking at that, at a conservative policy and at such a purely liberal policy, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen represents where it is said that the market is doing this by itself and that if we just leave it to the market, will this kind of thing become superfluous by itself? So, are we going back to a situation where the Conservative People's Party, like it, has a different attitude to this question that the market is just taking care of everything and that there must be some kind of decency in things too?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183807	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183809	The Conservative People's Party has never taken the view that the market is doing everything. We are very aware that the market is flawed and therefore we also need to keep them in mind. And especially when it comes to state companies, of course we do not have the view that the market can handle everything at all. I agree with what Per Stig Møller has said that some of the sums have been paid out to top managers, which I also find outrageous. I think, especially when it comes to state companies, that we have our right as owners to go in and say that there are limits to how much we think we should pay. I have no faith that much better managers are attracted by paying them three figures of millions. I didn't want that in relation to private companies either, but specifically when it comes to state companies, then as owner, I don't want to be involved in paying such large amounts to top managers. I think that is superfluous. I find it awful, and I think it's a waste of money. But I do not want to remove, as has been proposed in this motion for a resolution, the tool it is that the interests of management can be reconciled with the interests that we have as owners by giving them some shares and some joint ownership to the company. In fact, I think that if management does not have shares, it is more likely that they will try to look after their own interests rather than care for the interests of citizens and society. So when we want to maintain here that we must be able to give shares to corporate management, it is only to ensure that they work best for the interests of the citizens. Of course, it is not for us to just want to give some top executives some money that we have no interest in at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183947	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418183949	I know that I am moving a little at the edge of the debate itself, but I just think it is interesting because for many years I have not been able to tell the difference between conservative economic policy and liberal economic policy. That's why I really think it's interesting to hear. I mean, all over the world, you're discussing things right now, for example. The distribution of income, that is to say, there is a layer of directors who, like to a very large extent, run away from ordinary employees. Is there a difference of opinion on this in the Conservative People's Party in relation to some of the parties in the Chamber who define themselves as liberal, liberalist in economic policy? Can the rapporteur confirm that there is a difference, or does the rapporteur not think there is a difference? Are we looking at this development in the bourgeois camp differently from the classical conservative views and liberalist views?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184034	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184035	I think you do. Now I would prefer to stay on my own track rather than stand and interpret the politics of other parties. I would prefer only to talk about what we mean and we are concerned with cohesion. We are also concerned that there is some reasonableness in the salaries paid, particularly to public leaders, but we have no interest in an elite galloping while the rest of society is being dropped off. That's why we're also concerned about this problem, and we're in the end also concerned about the fact that inequality doesn't get too great in Danish society. But far along the way we stand shoulder to shoulder with the liberals. We are in favour of a market economy and we are in favour of a lower tax burden in Denmark. We also want to abolish the top tax, because we do not see that Denmark is today a very unequal society, where we need to take tough measures to prevent further inequality, because it will be at the expense of prosperity. So we're closer to the Liberal Alliance than we do on the Enhedslisten... there should be no doubt about that. But we are concerned about the cohesion force in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184141	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. Then we have come to the rapporteur for the proposers, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184157	Options provide completely random management wages, create the basis for conflicts of interest and often put market forces more or less out of control when the remunerations are agreed by something that is almost the character of a roof-top table. Anders Dam, Jyske Bank Director, wrote this ten years ago, and then the occasion was that TDC had been sold and then CEO Henning Dyremose had received a very large amount of money after TDC had been sold to a number of American capital funds. Today, too, we have had DONG as an example in the debate. Nets is extreme, of course, but that is not what this proposal is aiming for, because, firstly, I thought that there is no chance of creating a majority behind it and, in the first place, the most important thing is to secure taxpayers' money in relation to state companies. We can have many exciting discussions, and I would also like to thank those who have called for a debate on questions, both Mrs Josephine Fock from the Alternative and Mr. René Christensen from DF. In fact, I think it is a very good idea, and then perhaps you could also have a slightly broader aim. For it was actually quite conscious that this should be narrow and targeted state companies in the situation where it is a sale or a stock exchange quote. It is because we have been able to see time and time again that it actually provides a completely contradictory incentive structure in relation to what is for the company's good, for the good of the employees, for the good of the owners, that is, the state, for the good of society. Because you put some top executives and board members in the odd, you should think that they should choose between pricing or helping to set the company the lowest possible price in order to be able to score the highest possible prize when the company is listed, or to say: I have such a high morale that that is not what I want to go for; I would like to give up in order to price the company exactly as it has to be priced. That's where I think sir. René Christensen said it very well: of course that is not what is happening. With a bourgeois-liberal government, we hear that incentive structure fills everything. That is why the ceiling on cash benefits must be there; that is why benefits must be reduced. That is because incentives matter, and especially economic incentives matter. I also find it remarkable that we are constantly hearing about competitive wages. When it is at the top, competitive wages must be as high as possible, but when they are ordinary people, competitive wages must be as low as possible. I believe that if you already get 8-10 million. kr. a year and one's job is to get this company through a course as best as possible, no matter what you think about it politically, you should do your job as best you can, if only for the sake of your future career. And that's just how common sense and also what we expect of all sorts of other people, so it's distrust of people to say: You probably won't do your job well enough if you have to settle for your regular salary. You should also get a stock option program that actually gives you some incentives to act contrary to the company's best interests. That is what is so funny and, as I thought, SF thought, we thought that, across political disagreements about how companies should be handled and whether they are for or against state companies, and whether something should be privatised or not, we should actually find common ground on because it is about a specific situation, namely a stock exchange quote or a sale. There you can say that in the specific situation you should not reward people financially for acting contrary to the interests of the company and therefore also the owners and employees. I would like to thank everyone for in fact I think it has been a rather interesting discussion and I am also looking forward to the work of the committee. We'll see if anything can come of it. Otherwise, I think that the slightly wider discussion might be very useful for a question debate. Perhaps there were several of us who could go together if there was an interest in it, because I think that is quite interesting. I have also held myself back so as not to throw myself into the big, what to say, ideological discussion about what I think some of these pay systems do to our society. I think it's out on an excessive scale. But that was just not the point of this proposal; it was to try to keep it as narrow as possible to say that there are some perfectly defined situations where this simply seems completely opposite to what was intended. So thank you for that. I think it's been very exciting. I'm sorry that your dinner has been affected. Maybe somebody's taking care of you. But thank you for all the comments. And then I'm really excited I know you're just saying that, but I'm really looking forward to the committee work. I think it's gonna be really exciting. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184805	First of all, we need a brief comment from Mr. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184809	I think there are some of us who have at least one more proposal to discuss in a few moments, so we are not quite finished yet. Thank you, however, for your comments. Now the discussion, and also the proposal and the proposer, has been very much revolved around DONG as an example, and it was quite awful about this stock option programme that was launched in this context. And the rapporteur also refers to Anders Dam, who apparently warned SF ten years ago, so everyone was aware of these abominations that would happen if these stock options programmes were introduced. So I just want to ask quite quietly how the SF felt when they introduced the stock option program and adopted it here in the house in connection with the DONG case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184850	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184852	I believe that the rapporteur from the Left refers to the fact that some things were discussed in the Ministry of Finance, along with those responsible for the increase in capital, and that in the Committee on Finance there was an act that was voted through, which the SF also voted in favour of. I think that is what the rapporteur is referring to, and not that we in Parliament have in any way discussed how stock options should be dealt with in the specific case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418184926	However, it is true, as the rapporteur says, that it is an act in which stock options that should be introduced in connection with DONG sales were introduced. And that is where the Committee on Finance has the opportunity to take a position. There you have the opportunity to vote in favour of the document, or you have the opportunity to vote against it. And then I just ask, since it is so horrible that one introduced such a stock option programme... one has even been warned, one must understand, by Anders Dam 10 years ago... how the SF felt in that situation when one had to decide whether the share option programme via the Act in the Finance Committee should be adopted or rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185000	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185001	In fact, I do not think it suits the rapporteur to become totally sarcastic about this subject, so to say that it is 10 years since Anders Dam wrote something. I'm just saying there's also someone who's the boss of a big bank who thinks this doesn't belong anywhere. He wrote something 10 years ago, but he was also out saying something about Nets a few months ago. It's just to say that it's not just on the very reddest left that you have opinions about this. There are plenty of business people who think that now you're out on the sidelines. Even ATP had to say that uh, it was really, really not pretty what happened to Nets. However, on the specific question, I would just like to say that I think it is unreasonable that, if you are a party that would like to vote for something in the Committee on Finance, you only have the opportunity to either approve something or not to approve anything. It is not possible, unless we do what we do, to make some proposals, to influence the circumstances surrounding a sale of this kind. That's what I'm doing now. That's what we're doing now. We are taking the debate in Parliament, because that debate cannot be held in the middle of a sales process because it is something that is agreed behind closed doors. The rapporteur knows that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185120	Sir. René Christensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185123	First of all, I would like to acknowledge the rapporteur's statement that we have to work on this in committee, and we look forward to it too from the Danish People's Party. However, in relation to the discussion that has just taken place with the rapporteur of the Left, the rapporteur must be able to confirm that an act in the Committee on Finance must have 90 mandates behind him, and if it is a stock option programme or a minority protection programme or something else that you do not agree with, then you can vote 'no', and perhaps you can be so lucky that you can thwart the fact that there will be 90 mandates behind an act. In that case, the rapporteur cannot confirm that, as Mr. Jacob Jensen says that it is correct to say that no matter what has been agreed, there is nothing going through without there being 90 mandates behind it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185204	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185205	That is absolutely right. What I am just trying to say in connection with this proposal is that if you want to change the way a sale is to be made, you cannot move around the pieces of the Finance Committee. There it is clapped and clear, and there you must either vote for or against, i.e.. approve it or not approve it. After all, the hypothetical situation could arise that SF would like to approve an act in the Finance Committee, which was about the privatisation of a state company. I cannot think of an example, but it might well be; it has happened but that one was very unhappy with the way it was done. Then you only have one choice, that's what I hear these gentlemen say. Then you have to overturn it all, even if it is the option program that you are unhappy with. I think that's weird. Instead, we could say: let us agree on common ground rules so that it does not become an either-or-so, but so we say that this is how it should be, because it is a fair way. And then, in the Committee on Finance, you can decide whether you think that the sale, stock exchange quotation or capital increase is at all reasonable, without having to take all sorts of other things with you and decide whether you want to overturn it all or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185323	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185325	Again, I would like to say that I agree with the intentions, but we would have liked to discuss the proposal in committee. Now this DONG question has gotten to a lot of stuff. The Danish People's Party voted against the document in question. But is it not also true that the rapporteur's party, the SF, was actually in government at that time, so it was possible to influence what a stock option programme would look like, even before the act came into the Finance Committee? Now it's just because it's got to fill a lot in the debate that I say it. There must always be 90 mandates behind an act in the Finance Committee. Otherwise, it won't go through. It was also in connection with the sale of DONG, and SF also voted that there were 90 mandates behind it. Can the rapporteur not confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185408	Well, if everyone thinks it's very funny, I can do that. Everyone here knows that, and that is exactly the experience we have in making this proposal. It is for us not to get back into that situation. Now there were a lot of things about DONG, but it is in order that at some point it should not be specifically an option programme that must determine whether to sell or not. The crucial thing must be whether you think that selling is a good idea or not at all. Technically, the SF was not in government when the act went through in the Finance Committee, but it is a technicality. When I use the example of DONG myself completely unveiledly, I think it is a little childish that it is accepted in the way it does. Because it is precisely to say that the experience that my party has gained, we would like to use it to ensure that, on another occasion, we can be at the forefront of things, that we should not suddenly experience that in the dark and dark of night, bonus agreements and option programmes have been made and everything else where we cannot do or from. Then we could have made some rules in advance that we thought were okay. That was actually the intention of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185520	Thank you very much, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, for today's work. As no one else has asked for the floor, I consider the negotiations to be concluded. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Finance Committee. If no one objects, and there does not seem to be any doubt, I consider this to be adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185552	I should just like to make sure that we have a rapporteur for the proposers present. This is Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. That's good. Then we will continue the negotiations, and it is the rapporteur who has the floor first.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185630	Thank you again. The request called for by the SF is: What can the Minister of Finance say about the upcoming agreement between KL and the government about the municipalities' finances for 2018? The reason for the question is obviously a desire to hear what the government is imagining about the forthcoming municipal negotiations, which will enter their crucial phase next month. But today we were able to hear and read about the views of the Minister for Finance, among others. the plant ceiling. Of course, it is primarily the municipal economy that has been under extra pressure since the Blue Block stepped in in 2015, despite the fact that the volume of tasks is increasing, not least in the area of the elderly. At the same time, we have experienced significant deterioration in all municipal core areas such as childcare, primary school, the elderly and the disabled as a result of the tight economy in the municipalities. Nevertheless, we are saddened by the fact that in the first part of their term of office, the Left Government, with their so-called'reprioritisation' contribution, fortunately, got rid of last year after pressure from trade unions, user organisations and large parts of the municipal hinterland. Even the Left Ministers regretted their distress at the time. Instead, we got the so-called modernisation and efficiency programme, which it is said should make municipalities more efficient for 1 billion. kr. per In fact, this means that the State will involve 0.5 billion. kr. from the municipalities corresponding to approx. 1,200 employees. It is at a time of great demographic challenges as a result of more elderly people. In the SF we do not think this is a sustainable situation, and that is why, as I said, we are also looking forward to hearing what the government will play out in the forthcoming municipal negotiations. In the SF, we believe that it is absolutely indisputable that the municipalities urgently need proper and decent financial frameworks, because this is the prerequisite for both preserving and developing our welfare society, rather than proposing, as some do, tax relief or inheritance tax reductions, which, moreover, do not benefit many Danes. In the SF, we believe that the money should remain in the municipalities and we look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185913	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418185923	SF has asked me to explain what I can tell you about the negotiations on the municipalities' finances for 2018, which the government and KL will be launching in the near future, and I am of course happy to do so. However, it is just important to point out that the negotiations have not yet started. They will not be launched until May, and that is why it is of course limited what I can tell you, that is, about negotiations that have not started and about a future agreement that we have not started. Instead, I would like to outline the overall framework for the forthcoming economic negotiations. The starting point for the negotiations on the municipal economy is the overall framework for the public economy in Denmark. In this context, it is first and foremost important to stress that the government wants to pursue a responsible economic policy, in which the economy of the municipalities is determined taking into account the overall public financial framework. If we look at the Danish economy as a whole, we can see that right now we are experiencing a strong recovery with increasing growth, falling unemployment and a strong increase in employment. In each of the years after 2009, we have had growth in our GDP, private employment is rising sharply, and unemployment is at its lowest level in 40 years, if 2007 and 2008 are excluded, when the Danish economy was overheated. This is a positive development and development that can only be welcomed. This is particularly true when, at the same time, it means that more and more people are getting into jobs and that more people are moving from public support to self-reliance. Having said that, it is also important to stress that we continue to have deficits in public finances and, although the Danish economy's progress in isolation strengthens the public balance, it is a bottom-up task that we will gradually reduce deficits in the coming years. This is not least necessary in view of the demographic development we are experiencing, with more elderly people and fewer to support. At the same time, there is a need for austerity in fiscal policy to ensure that economic policy fits the economic cycle so that we have a sustainable recovery in the Danish economy. We must address the risk of overheating and bottlenecks in the labour market. We are not going back to the '00s when the crisis got worse because we had a period when public spending ran out of control. It takes restraint. At the same time, it is our ambition that total public expenditure should form a smaller part of the economy. Specifically, this means that the government's objective is that basic growth in public consumption should, as a starting point, be 0.3 per cent. In addition, expenditure on reforms made possible, such as the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the European Social Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund (ESF), the Cohesion Fund (ESF), the The economic framework for the public sector will therefore also be tight in the coming years, even if we have succeeded in increasing the priority space through further reforms. This is necessary because a healthy public economy is a prerequisite for creating growth and development throughout Denmark, and it is also necessary for us to be able to afford a strong welfare society in the future. Overall, therefore, tight economic conditions in the public economy are a basic condition in the years to come, regardless of the colour of the government. This applies both to the state, the regions and the municipalities. It makes great demands that we keep doing things smarter in the public sector and that we work to ensure as much and good service as possible within the current financial framework. This also applies, of course, to the municipalities, which account for about half of the public economy. That is why I am very pleased that the government and KL agreed in last year's economic agreement to introduce a joint modernisation and efficiency programme, in which we emphasise that the development of welfare areas is a shared responsibility for the state and the municipalities. The programme sets the framework for cooperation to support municipalities in developing and modernising municipal services within a tight financial framework and to ensure a strengthened room for local policy choice to be able to give priority to the benefit of citizens. The state is responsible for supporting the municipalities' task solution with smart regulation that allows room for local planning. The municipalities, on the other hand, are responsible for organising an effective task solution within the framework. Measured in kroner and ear, the modernisation and efficiency programme means that together we have committed each other to releasing 1 billion each year. kr. by efficiency improvements and regulatory simplifications. This corresponds to a total efficiency requirement of just under 0.5%. of the total municipal service framework. Of these, half will remain in the municipalities, for example. can use the money for priority municipal welfare areas. The remaining half, as indicated by the agreed expenditure ceilings, will be taken to broad priorities in the public sector, to where the need is greatest. In addition, the programme provides a basis for us to work together on cross-cutting agendas, for example. how we buy more efficiently in the public sector, how we remove unnecessary rules and how we ensure more appropriate governance. With the agreement on the modernisation and efficiency programme, the municipalities have assumed responsibility for continuing the renewal of welfare and, at the same time, for releasing considerable room for manoeuvre. This requires that we have 98 responsible municipalities, and I am proud of that as Minister of Finance. In the context of the negotiations on the economy of the municipalities, it is of course also important to look at the overall economic situation in the municipalities. At the same time last year, one of the biggest challenges facing the municipalities' economy was the historically high number of refugees that the municipalities were about to receive. Specifically, this meant that exactly one year ago, we expected the municipalities to receive 15,000 refugees in 2017, and to that end the family members came together. It was historically a large number, and it was a very large task facing the municipalities, which would bring considerable pressure to bear on municipal expenditure and the municipal service. Among other things: As a result, the government and KL chose in the 2017 economic agreements to return more than 2 billion. kr. of the municipal re-prioritization contribution in 2017 to the municipalities in order to relieve the economic well-being of the additional costs of refugees. Today, however, the situation is different. The Foreign Affairs Agency has recently downgraded the national figure for 2017 to 4,000 people. The welcome development helps to ease the pressure on public finances and, above all, on the local economy. At the same time, the municipalities' provisional accounts for 2016 show a budgetary deficit on the service framework in the region of 3 billion. kr. This indicates, therefore, that within the current framework there is considerable room for manoeuvre in the municipalities' service costs. Another important part of the municipal economy relates to municipal investment, an issue which is therefore also at the heart of the economic negotiations in the future. In this context, it is essential to bear in mind that, at the beginning of the decade, municipalities have had some historically high levels of investment. This was due to major advances in investment to support growth and employment in a time of crisis. But with an advance it follows that you hold back afterwards. I think that is quite natural in the word advance. Now, as I said at the outset, we are well out of the crisis. Growth is rising, employment is high and unemployment is falling. There is therefore now a need for adjustments in line with a sound stabilisation policy adapted to the economic situation. In addition, there is currently a global challenge to reduce the public investment already planned in buildings and installations to the levels financed in the coming years. This means that planned public investment will be reduced by 2020. The adjustment of investment has begun in the municipalities, but it is not over, and of course we must also be able to discuss this with the municipalities in the forthcoming economic negotiations. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise that I look forward to the forthcoming negotiations with the municipalities. I have already had a good dialogue with KL and the municipalities prior to the negotiations, among others. at the municipal economic forum and at the municipal summit. I am convinced that, together and for the best of our citizens, we can support the continued development and modernisation of municipal services within the tighter framework. For there is no doubt that this is necessary if we are also to be able to afford a strong welfare society in the future and to afford a good municipal public service and welfare. In my view, there is no doubt that we are doing the best together between states and municipalities and that we are therefore also maintaining the institution created by the annual agreements between changing governments and KL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418190809	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418190848	I would like to thank the Minister for his introductory remarks. Perhaps you should have read the paper; I think there was a little more out of that interview, but not exactly what we wanted. Because with this query debate, we want to be at the forefront of things. The Minister for Finance says the negotiations are not finished yet. It's a long time, it sounds like. But there, as Parliament, we can have no influence whatsoever. And that's what we're trying to say with this debate: that all the parties of the Folketing would like to play a part with some opinions on what the municipal economy should look like. Because it is in the municipalities that the core welfare is; that is where the elderly are being cared for; that is where the children are being cared for; that is where the kids go to school. Some of the most important institutions in our lives, in our children's lives, in our grandparents' lives are located in the municipalities. Therefore, it is also absolutely crucial that the economy of the municipalities. And the municipalities have a tight economy. Then the Minister for Finance talks a lot about ensuring that there is no overheating of the economy. I don't think anyone seriously thinks we're getting into that. But there are a few areas, says the Minister, where perhaps something could happen in the construction sector. But why, as a government, do you choose to relax property taxes at a time when you are worried that too much is being built? Instead of saying that it is really important that holes are patched up in the roads in the municipalities, that the kids can go to proper schools, that the nursing homes that are being built are of proper quality. But, overall, we know, because it is economic childhood that we cannot relax everywhere. Because then there's an overheating. What I think the Minister is actually saying is that we want to relax private consumption and therefore there is no room for public consumption. That is the kind of overheating that the Minister is talking about. And that is true; sometimes you have to make choices. It is also true that the cost of construction is still high. So did they when we were in government. And why did they do that? It was because they had been too low for many, many years before. So we and our municipal roots need to ensure that the roads are fixed, that our buildings are maintained, also by the good principle of merchants alone, that it will be much, much more expensive to wait. So we have a number of construction tasks that cannot wait. However, the text that I am reading for a moment on behalf of a number of parties is primarily about the level of service. I'm not really happy with that concept. It's such a cold concept. Now we're gonna serve somebody. However, it is basically about the welfare that we would like to give to each other. We want to ensure that elderly people have proper conditions in nursing homes, in elderly homes, we want to ensure that they receive proper food. We want our children to thrive. After all, it is the human concern that lies behind the rather cold word a service framework. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party, the Alternative and the Enhedslisten, I would like to read out the following: Proposals for adoption • The Danish Parliament notes that in these years there is considerable expenditure pressure in the municipal area, the Danish Parliament instructs the government in agreement on the municipal economy for 2018 to ensure that the gains from the modernisation and efficiency programme of 1 billion. kr. annually remain fully in the municipalities in order to strengthen core welfare. As a consequence, municipal expenditure ceilings will be increased by 0.5 billion. kr. every year, so that the agreed framework for municipal service costs in 2018, 2019 and 2020 at least corresponds to 2017 levels and minus growth in municipalities is cancelled. • V 76).
ParlaMint-DK_20170418191321	Thank you. Then we start with the rapporteur's series. It's first, sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418191333	Thank you, President. Thanks also to the SF for having asked this question. Thank you to the Minister for Finance for his statement here at the outset. For social democracy it is a foundation stone to preserve our welfare societies. It is at the heart of our social model and supports Danish society as we know it. Our social model is not a matter of course, but the fruitage of the hard work of generations. As the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, also pointed out, the government originally had a re-priority contribution for the municipalities. However, with the help of many good forces, both here in the Folketing, in the municipalities and from interest organisations and others, the result was that the re-prioritisation contribution was ultimately abandoned. That was good, because we cannot secure the near core welfare with savings. We have fought for this, and many other good forces have fought for this, so that the municipalities should not be forced to cut back on the welfare that benefits the citizens in order to live up to the economy that was a consequence of the re-priority contribution. The reality is that there is still less growth in the economy of the municipalities. As a result, the municipalities will continue to save a total of 1.5 billion over the next three years. kr. In the Social Democratic Party we have always believed that the deterioration of our welfare society is the wrong way for Denmark. We still think so. Not least, of course, in the light of this, and there I must agree with the Minister for Finance that there is a demographic development in Denmark that leads to a greater demand for parts of public welfare that we can pride ourselves on. Of course, this is not least about an increasingly ageing population. It is by no means everyone who comes up in the years who needs the help and efforts of society. But it is also the case that the proportion of those who cannot manage without public aid is increasing. We therefore continue to believe that negative growth in the economy of the municipalities must be completely abolished, so that we ensure the close core welfare of the municipalities. The economy of the municipalities will be reduced for the next 3 years by a total of 1.5 billion. kr. as a result of the efficiency programme. It is only fair for the municipalities themselves to get the money that they save by working smarter and more efficiently, instead of taking the money back to the treasury. I know that the Minister for Finance is very fond of incentive programmes, and if there is something that will provide an incentive for precisely meeting these efficiency programmes to work as well as possible, it will be precisely to ensure that the municipalities are allowed to keep these funds to ensure the well-being which will, of course, be further sought out as a result of demographic features. The municipalities account for a large part of the near core welfare that we Danes experience every day, from the crèche, in the primary school and in the care of the elderly. The growth in the economy of the municipalities will therefore have a direct effect on what the municipalities can offer to the citizens. We do not think that is fair. In replying to the question, the Minister of Finance also addressed the question of overheating and bottlenecks. I'm not surprised. I do not think it surprises anyone in this Chamber that the Minister for Finance is taking every opportunity to highlight the point of view he has also made in public. I have to say, however, that when you do so, among other things. In today's newspapers, but also in the statement here, it can be understood that this is so, among other things. It is a question of cutting down on the municipal construction framework, and that there is thus such a link between overheating and bottlenecks, then it may be surprising that it is just being pointed out as the obvious instrument. It might have been smarter to look at some other elements. For example, it could be a housing job scheme, which, if there were a prospect of bottlenecks in the construction industry, might be thought, with serenity, to be there, to look at whether it was more appropriate to take action. In fact, part of the costs below the construction framework also helps to ensure subsequent lower operating costs in the municipalities. That is, for example, the case. in the field of energy efficiency improvements, renovations of public buildings. If you postpone some of the renovations until the following year, it may in fact be much more expensive. With these words, I will conclude my speech as my speaking time has been spent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418191858	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418191902	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for his comments. It is, of course, a recurring discussion that we have here, and that is very good. According to this efficiency programme, the municipalities are given a hand to find a billion kroner, and half a billion of that billion is then returned to the municipalities, and the last half a billion can then be given broad priority in the public sector where the need is greatest. Would the rapporteur not agree that, when these funds are produced as a result of efficiency improvements or regulatory simplifications, which remove unnecessary rules which may have already resulted in administrative costs in the municipalities, then there is no question of that money being spent today on hot hands, SOSU assistants, school teachers, educators, etc.? It is therefore money that is released as a result of the fact that both the rules are made smarter and also the way in which work is done together with the municipalities are made more effective. In this way, it can be said that this is new money. Half a billion extra is then released for the real welfare, that is to say for the warm hands of the municipalities, and the other half a billion can then be given priority, for example for health or elsewhere where it will be needed. Would the rapporteur not agree that this is the way things are?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192019	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192020	I very much believe that it is good to have an incentive to help hunt for the superfluous rules and bureaucracy that exist. I fully agree that it can only go too slowly to find areas where this kind of superfluous regulation can be cut away. The more you can create an incentive for the municipalities to play an active part in this, the better it is. And I think that the incentive would be much better if it were to be said that what is created by profit in this way will also be used for the warm hands, as Mr. Jacob Jensen is just talking about. I fully agree with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192104	I just want to remind you that you have to remember to push into the second round. Here you go, sir. Jacob Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192109	I'll keep that in mind for the next time, if necessary. Thank you. I think that is fine, but then it is that I ask what the problem is. Because if it is new money in the sense that it is money that is not being used for hot hands today, then what we all care to have: educators, schoolteachers, etc. Then it is the case that if you implement that programme together with the municipalities, it gives exactly half a billion extra to the citizens' welfare in the municipalities and, in addition, half a billion, which you can see here from Things, for example, as a priority to health or to the municipalities, or where you think it is needed in the public sector. So this is actually an excellent way of prioritising taxpayers' money in order to focus it on citizen-centred welfare rather than on cold administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192214	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192215	In fact, it could also be the case that even greater improvements in efficiency were achieved if one said in this way: okay, the state does not have to cut half in the gate. We leave it to the municipalities to be able to spend and spend the money for the big move which, moreover, is in the municipalities. That would be a good and fine incentive. I believe that the many capable mayors of the country will play a very active part in this, by the way, both the mayors of one and the other political observers. For me, it is a great deal to ensure that the money goes to the citizen-centred welfare and thus also creates an incentive for the municipalities to play actively with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192259	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192301	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would ask the rapporteur to confirm that there is no new money in that billion. The idea is that the municipalities should save one billion out of the framework they are now getting to do well, and then they should be so nice and nice to hand over half a billion to the finance minister so that he can distribute it widely across the public sector. That's what it's all about. It might be very good to put it in place so that the debate does not get completely off the rails before it gets started.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192334	so that it is money that is not already given to the municipalities. It is also true that if you can remove some rules, so that there is less administrative work and less bureaucracy, then it is only fine if that money can then instead go to, for example, the warm hands that we so popularly call them. It could be the care of the elderly, it could be the day nurseries, it could be the primary school, and it is clear that it will always be far better, and everything else equal, that it will not be the finance minister sitting at all times who puts his disgusting hand on half the money, but that the municipalities will actually be allowed to keep it themselves.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192413	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192415	Thank you. We are in complete agreement on this. That is also why we are together on a joint proposal for adoption, so it was nice to put it in place. Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something, because the rapporteur said that now I cannot remember it literally, so perhaps I have interpreted something • that our common argument that the municipalities should be allowed to keep it billions is that it should benefit welfare. And I heard the rapporteur, no, I should like to ask in this way: if the rapporteur thinks that if we succeed, if we get through with it, then we have ensured the welfare of the municipalities, or we need more, for example. because of demographic developments, i.e. the change in population composition with more elderly people, etc.? Does it take more to ensure the welfare than just to secure the billion for the municipalities themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192502	Now I'm pretty sure that Mr. Finn Sørensen aims at the government's economic policy, in other words, as the Minister for Finance explained, there must be a public growth rate of 0.3 per cent, and there is at least my clear assessment that it is not enough to lift the demographic trend.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192526	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418192536	Thank you for that, President. We have a question here today about the forthcoming agreement between the government and KL on the economy of the municipalities. This is something that we in the Danish People's Party think is very important, and in this respect we would like to play a part in some of our positions and in particular our concerns about the economy. For the Danish People's Party, it is incredibly important that we continue to improve the level of service for the bourgeois welfare in the municipalities, and what is the bourgeois welfare? It has been mentioned here before, and it is simply the situation of children in day-care institutions, good school conditions, dignified care for the elderly, close health care, care for our disabled and vulnerable citizens, a helping hand back to the labour market if you have fallen out of it, etc. On the other hand, the growth in municipal budgets, which goes exclusively to refugees and migrants, is not an improvement in the citizens' welfare and cannot therefore be expected. One of the things we have also been looking at recently is that we in the press have seen an incredible number of unfortunate or unhappy circumstances in the area of the elderly, which certainly lack a helping hand. We've seen older people who couldn't go to the bathroom. We've seen older people sitting in a wet diaper, etc. etc. But now, fortunately, we have a Ministry of the Elderly and an older minister who repeatedly tells and points out that it is the government's policy to improve conditions for the elderly at the care centres, and we in the Danish People's Party are extremely happy about this, as it has also been one of our cornerstones for many years. And we will keep the government up on all these promises made by the Minister for the Elderly. Now is the time for the government to stand its test and make words act. Unfortunately, we see a number of municipalities that do not comply with the intentions of the Folketing when earmarked funds are allocated to the elderly. We saw it with the dignity billionaire, and we saw it with the elderly billion, which disappeared and was not earmarked anymore, that the money goes into the big box in the municipalities and does not go to care for the elderly anyway. Therefore, the Danish People's Party will encourage the government to make a binding agreement with the municipalities in the area of the elderly, so that it can actually be demonstrated that in the years to come more money is spent on the elderly in all municipalities. At least the DF will keep the government up to that, also in relation to the demographic developments we are seeing. There is also another problem with regard to the fact that, regardless of where you live and whether you are young or old, you as a citizen must experience the same service in the bourgeois welfare. Unfortunately, we see a country in imbalance with large differences in the service provided by each municipality. There are several reasons for this. In recent years, urbanization has taken place in large cities with high house prices. This means that people on transfer incomes move to the outermost municipalities where they can have a cheaper housing, and it is quite really to seek a cheaper accommodation. It just weighs on the smaller municipalities, which lack tax bases and have more citizens drawing on welfare benefits. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party are also pleased that we have created a new special grant pool, which now has a more economic focus on demographic, structural and employment conditions. This greatly benefits the outermost regions. Then the focus has also been placed on the public schools, because there are large differences in the average character, and the difference between how many young people receive a qualification is also great, although we live in a geographically small country. This has several reasons. One of them is that it is difficult to break the social heritage. Another thing that is not entirely unimportant is that many primary schools have a poor indoor climate, which also leads to poor learning. And now that the construction budgets are being reduced, we can have a concern about whether the municipalities can now live up to these schools. However, the Danish People's Party focuses on this and we look forward to the debate. On behalf of the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservatives, I am going to make the following proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the government is about to initiate negotiations with KL about the municipalities' financial framework for 2018. The Folketing supports the agreement system and the economic agreements which the current government enters into with the municipalities at all times. Against this background, the Danish Parliament calls for the government to seek an agreement with KL on the municipalities' economy for 2018, which supports a continued better level of service for citizens' welfare within the framework of a responsible economic policy. V 77).
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193046	Thank you. There are some comments, first Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193049	Thank you. Now I heard the rapporteur say that it is not citizens' welfare to spend money on refugees and migrants, it is possible that it is not quoted literally. How will the rapporteur ensure in this year's economic negotiations between the government and the municipalities that the municipalities will be required to spend less money on refugees and migrants? That is the first question. So a natural follow-up to that: how can it be said that it is not close to the citizen's welfare? So, some of the people we are talking about here are Danish citizens, so for that reason alone. But what good will it do society as a whole if we get worse integration than we already have, because that will be the consequence of the Danish People's Party's line?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193148	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193151	Now the Danish People's Party, together with the government, has made 50 restrictions in the area of foreigners, and fortunately this has led to a far fewer refugees and migrants seeking to go to the country. This also means that it cannot be said that there is a financial gain, but at least it has meant that the municipalities do not need the room for manoeuvre that was first allocated to refugees, and we in the Danish People's Party are incredibly happy about that. After all, it is no secret that the Danish People's Party does not approve of the government's and the rest of the Danish Parliament's decision to integrate refugees and migrants into Danish society; we think that they should rather be helped in the neighbourhood for a short time and then return to their home countries. So we have not voted in favour of and participated in the integration of refugees and migrants into society, because we do not want that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193250	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193251	No, I'm aware of that. However, what I heard the rapporteur say was that the municipalities should spend less money on refugees and migrants, a fine word for immigrants and their descendants. How will the Danish People's Party ensure this in this year's economic negotiations? I would like an answer to that, because otherwise it's just some hot air you're getting out. Do you agree with the other parties that it is good for Danish society if we spend less money on good integration if we make sure that there are even more poor people in this country, for example. Are the families of refugees who have to live for the lowest level of benefit that can be recovered in the social system at all? Does the Danish People's Party agree with the other bourgeois parties that this is the way to go, and how will it be ensured in this year's economic negotiations?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193342	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193345	When you say that there has been a growth of 0.7 per cent and that they 0.4 per cent. We in the Danish People's Party do not believe that it can be called to increase welfare, because welfare is that you have good schools, that you have good day care institutions. After all, welfare is not that we spend money on installing refugees in homes and providing housing services and interpreting services and everything else. It doesn't benefit the close welfare, it doesn't benefit the elderly in the care centres, and that's why we think that you can't compare the two things they don't have anything to do with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193434	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193438	Thank you. I share the rapporteur's concern about close welfare. As recently as this weekend, a report from the FOA was published which showed that 81 municipalities have budgeted less money per year. citizen over 80 years of age in 2017 compared to the year before... even when you have included the government's so-called dignity billions, rock card schemes, etc. etc. Does the rapporteur not think that this indicates too tight budgets and that the solution is therefore to provide a framework for growth, for example. can prevent demographic developments in relation to the elderly from impairing budgets?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193526	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193527	I am at least concerned to see that the funds that we at Christiansborg are not well liked among many mayors, for example. When we set aside a billion for the elderly who are earmarked. But I think that the municipalities should be very happy about it and that instead we did not do the opposite. It is a little disgraceful when you hear some mayors, especially from the second largest municipality in the country, say that we in the Danish Parliament should not determine the level of service in the area of the elderly, and that you then make a zero sum solution, so that the money you get through the older billion is offset by other measures for the elderly. At least that makes me really, really upset.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193612	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193615	But unless the rapporteur thinks that the municipalities spend the money on unnecessary welfare, it is basically an expression of the fact that the municipalities spend the money where they think there is the greatest need, which the municipalities will also actually be the closest to assessing. But it still means that it is difficult to get the ends to reach together, and therefore it will also cost, among other things. the elderly area. After all, the elderly are not the only welfare area. I mean, the older billion can, for example. are not transferred and used in the adult disability area, where there are also some similar challenges.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193652	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193653	That is why our proposal for adoption also states that we must continue to improve the level of services. It may well be that the mayors out there choose to use the money for other things, because it is also needed, but when we have put a political line in here and earmarked some funds, because we would like to raise a certain area that we believe is really crowded and challenged, it is shameful that you then see that with one hand you get the money in and with the other hand you remove it and use it for something else. I do not think that is a proper policy. Now we have a Ministry of Health and the Elderly and an elderly minister who at least points out that she is focusing on it, so I hope we can read that in the government's negotiations forward-looking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193747	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193751	Thank you. The re-priority contribution lives on under a new name and this is how you can keep renaming things where the municipalities have to streamline for 1 billion. kr. But even if you could streamline and it wasn't just a buzzword for savings, it wouldn't even cover the extra bill for the more elderly coming. And out of it, the government's gonna take half a billion. So even if you might think that this is a better agreement than the re-priority contribution was, I also hear the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party so that it is worrying that you do these austerity exercises, which in itself will mean that you do nothing else, there will be much less money in the municipalities, and as my colleague from the SF said, you will have to make even more savings. Is it true that DF shares the concern that especially at a time when we can see that there will be more elderly people who are also caring for elderly people, it is simply detrimental to the community's well-being with those savings?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193902	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193902-2	Thank you. Oh, yeah, sure. We are worried, especially about the care of the elderly, as we see it today. We have seen some terribly sad fates and some sad situations, and we cannot be familiar with this in a welfare society such as the Danish one. That is why we have great expectations that the Minister for the Elderly will come into play. And with what she says, every time we are in a meeting with her, and so on, that it is a high priority for the government, we count on and want to keep the government up that it is also something we can see in future negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193936	Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418193938	One can say that if you are going to go for what the Minister for the Elderly says, you can at least sometimes have very high hopes. But if you look at the government's overall policy, maybe I'm a little less optimistic. We know that we are parties that do not get the tongue on the scales, but we can then rely on DF to be decisive in ensuring that there are investments in municipal welfare, especially for the elderly, as there should be. I also really hope that we can count on DF - just as the government's support party - because there must therefore be a completely different investment boost in the municipalities so that we can ensure the level to which the elderly, and all sorts of others in the municipalities, are entitled.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194031	Yeah, sure. That is one of the things we want to keep the government up to, and we have done so in the previous negotiations, among others. in financial law negotiations and rate pool negotiations. There we have always found a pool of money for the elderly, and if that's what we're going to do, then we're going to do it again. Because it is a focus area and it is an area that really needs to be lifted. And, as I said, we cannot be familiar with this. So this is one of the major areas on which we want to stop the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194102	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Jacob Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194117	Thank you. It is, it may be said, a recurring event, and it is, of course, very relevant to discuss the financial framework of the municipalities, all the time that it is probably about half of the public budget which the municipalities manage and which, as several people have also mentioned, carry out in the first place the citizen-centred welfare for which we all pay tribute somewhere and in different ways want to do something good. So it is an extremely relevant debate to take at appropriate intervals and, of course, also as a prelude to the economic debate that the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the government, will have with the municipalities here shortly. However, we may also have to look at it in a little historical perspective, because it is not, after all, the case that dramatic cuts in the budget figure have been seen in the sense that we have seen, at least over the last few years, perhaps with a few years' exception under the previous SRSF government, that the budgets have been increasing. Of course, there has been reason for this too, in the sense that, as several others have also mentioned, we have a demographic development in which we see some ever-increasing expenditure in the area that has to be dealt with in some way. But it is also important for me to make it clear that money is not everything. They are, of course, nice to have, you might say, but at least it is also necessary to look at what we are getting out of the funds that are being allocated. This is, of course, just as true in the municipal budget as elsewhere in the public sector, in so far as it is true in our own private economy, but it is of no use to anyone other than ourselves. But when we look at what funds are being allocated, I really think the most important thing is to ask: what do we get out of it, what is the result of it? We have 98 municipalities, and they do it in their own way. That is what we call municipal self-government, and we pay tribute to it, and it is good that it is precisely at local level that priority can be given to developing, making new initiatives and becoming more skilled and so on. The other way round, of course, is that we also see different results, i.e. we get different results from the funds within the framework that we from the Folketing agree with the municipalities once a year; we get different results from it. This can then be interpreted in different ways: that it is because everyone is not equal or that it is because things are done and prioritised differently. But regardless of that, there are opportunities to look at learning from each other around and find out how it can be that the neighbouring municipality can have more lessons in school or more educators per year. child, or whatever it may be that can be compared to. There may of course be different circumstances, but at least it is a good starting point to look at whether you can do things better. That is also what is being proposed in the agreement that is then made where one has to release 1 billion. kr. In other words, to look at whether, together with the local authorities, we can make things more appropriate, in other words simply create a better framework so that we can get more welfare for the same money understood in such a way that we can release 1 billion. kr. by making regulatory simplifications or efficiency improvements or by other means improving and improving skills. Then, as I said in my previous question, it is, in fact, new money in terms of what can go to real welfare, since I do not see that administration and things like that count. What we normally talk about from here when we talk about welfare is the warm hands: educators, school teachers, etc. So that's one way to do it. Then, of course, there is the discussion about whether the entire billion should be returned in advance to the municipalities. Of course, you can take that as an attitude, but you can also say that there may also be other places in the public sector where there may be a need. It may be that they have to be returned to the municipalities, because there is one circumstance that makes it right here in the year in question, but it could also be in the health sector, and it could also be elsewhere where you could spend the last half billion. I also think it is important to say that what the government, with the Minister of Innovation at the forefront, has set as an offensive agenda, namely to review the public sector as a whole and to see if we can do things better for each other in what is called a cohesion reform. Can we simply get more for the money? Of course, that has been said and tried before in various contexts... there have been confidence agendas, confidence reforms, and other words have been put on it... but I think it was in an Olsen gang film that Egon will eventually come back with the 10th plan or the 20th plan and say: if we believe it right this time, we must succeed. I think this time, because there are muscles and will behind it. I believe that, and I think that is also an agenda that we should jointly pursue, so that we get the most welfare for the money that is now being collected in tax and that is being channelled to the municipalities in this case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194628	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194631	Thank you very much, and thank you to the rapporteur. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur, who represents the Left and indirectly the government, is satisfied that he has now got the Danish People's Party on a proposal for adoption, where there are no specific requirements as to what the government should live up to in order to ensure the welfare of the municipalities in this year's economic negotiations. Nor is there any concrete demand for what is the alleged priority of the Danish People's Party, namely the area of the elderly. On the contrary, the signature of the Danish People's Party has been obtained that whatever agreement the government comes back with, the Danish People's Party votes for it. This must be a wish situation for a government party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194719	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194720	But I am not going to explain the views of the Danish People's Party. I think the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party did so quite well a moment ago, so I think we should leave it there. But, of course, I am pleased that we have a bourgeois camp which can stand together to ensure both that there is stability in relation to the agreements reached here at Christiansborg, the contractual system that we have had a tradition of for many years and that there is also a bourgeois camp which can stand together to ensure a responsible economic policy, a responsible financial framework, and, at the same time, as the proposal for adoption shows, that a continuing improvement in the level of service of citizens' welfare can be ensured. I am really glad about that, and one could then call it a wish scenario I would just call it a good proposal for adoption, which describes it very well: responsibility and continued good welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194815	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194817	Thank you. I did not ask the rapporteur to explain the views of the Danish People's Party. I asked the rapporteur whether the rapporteur was very pleased that he has received a proposal for adoption with which the Minister for Finance can take it into his pocket, where there are no specific requirements as to how the government should ensure good welfare in the municipalities, even in the area of the elderly. And I can hear that the rapporteur, who does not represent the government but a government party, is very pleased with that, because there is nothing concrete in this proposal for adoption. The government can do whatever it wants. And no matter what agreement the government comes home with, the Danish People's Party has now signed up to the fact that they will vote for it even if it is going to affect the elderly again, because that is the nude content of the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194908	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418194909	Well, I can't quite follow the rationale when it comes to the elderly again, or whatever it was, sir. Finn Sørensen here came in his last postulate. We have that ambition in the bourgeois camp, and that is what we have agreed in the proposal for adoption: there must be a financially responsible framework for the economy that we have for this country, including for the municipalities, which, as you know, manage about half of the public economy, and that, at the same time, there must be the possibility of continuing to have a better level of service. And as I said in my speech a moment ago, after all, the money is not all that it is, of course, a prerequisite to a certain extent, but it is also about what you get for the money, and that is also what I think there can be in saying: what is the service we should have not only measured in dollars and cents, but in real service out there with the citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195003	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195005	Thank you. The rapporteur is absolutely right that money is not everything, but it is money that pays the salary of the educator and the salary of the social assistant. And we just see lots of examples out there that there are too many children per. Pedagogics. Pedagogues can't give the children the attention they need. There are sosu assistants and others who also run really, really fast. So it costs some money to have enough employees. If we really want to release some funds and not just call them efficiency improvements, as we do with the new modernisation programme, then there must be a real debureaucratisation. And if they did, some funds would be released. But all the times we have had the Minister for the Elderly in consultation because she promised to debureaucratize, we have not been able to get any concrete answers. Nor can we get any concrete answers from the Minister for Finance. Nor can we get any concrete answers from the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. We cannot get any response from any of the ministers who constantly say that this money must be found through de-bureaucratisation. So now I would like to hear the rapporteur on the Left: where are we to debureaucratize specifically?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195119-2	I just want to start by answering. In other words, since the SF's rapporteur here cares a lot about how many educators we have, it is not so many years since the SF itself sat in government and was itself part of a majority. And you can just ask the opposite if there were more or fewer educators in that period. I can give you the answer. There were fewer educators. Just so we have the proportions in place. Where, then, is the debureaucratisation to take place? Well, I think it would be wrong if I were to stand and make 10 commandments or 30 bids for it, because I am not the one who works in the bourgeois welfare, you might say. After all, they are the ones who should come with them and who are invited by the Minister of Innovation in this reform process to come in and explain and tell where they feel the shoe pressing. I think that is a right way to do it ■ to do it completely systematically and get around all the municipalities in which I understand the minister is going around; talk to the people, organisations, etc. who are dealing with this, and put it together and then get a proper reform on how to get rid of bureaucracy and get the funds that can then instead go to real well-being, if you may say so, rather than to cold administration.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195231	Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195237	Excuse me, Chairman. I'm gonna have to press twice. It was not under the SF-R-S government that different arrangements existed. Now it is called the modernisation and efficiency programme, and it is said that one billion can be made more effective. kr. Then the government grabs half, and then they can use it to reduce the inheritance tax or whatever they're making up. You can use it for anything, and the municipalities can use the other half. It was not under the former government or the former government. It's under the current government. That is why I only ask curiously: where should we debureaucratize? I guess we can get an answer to that when we are told that this is not savings, but that it is debureaucratisation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195325-2	I think we need to be very blind and perhaps also politically deaf in order not to see the many examples that are being rolled up of different kinds. It may be documentation requirements, it may be overlaps, it may be IT systems that do not work. It can be a lot of things. But I think it would be wrong for me to stand here and play wise yoke and know exactly where it is that you should start, and where it is that the 10 or 20 or 100 examples should be. I think it is actually very sensible and positive that the Minister for Innovation and thus the government take it seriously and is quite systematic in the work that is now being organised. And let me just remind you again that when you talk about the teachers, for example, there were fewer educators during the period SF was responsible. That is not the case now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195411	Then it's mr. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195414	Thank you. The rapporteur sounds like a very strong advocate of the efficiency and modernisation programme. Last year there was a very heated debate on the re-priority contribution, which the government wisely chose to drop. On the other hand, this new concept was introduced into the economic agreement with the somewhat less formal title of the efficiency and modernisation programme. Does the rapporteur think that there is a difference between the two or is it a dear child with many names?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195442	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195444	I think that when you look at what lies in the modernisation and efficiency contribution, it is certainly targeted. In other words, those funds must be released, which I had a dialogue with Mrs Bech Poulsen about a moment ago, from among other things. Rule simplifications. They could have been in the past, but it could have been in the broader sense. It could also have been the case that the municipalities had chosen to cut their budgets on their own, without putting anything else instead. Here we are talking about a mutual agreement where the municipalities have to look at how they handle things, but where we also have to look at the rules that we have set up for the municipalities, how they are to manage things, and what we are asking for the documentation of the municipalities and the employees, and what it is all called. So I think that is a different way of looking at it and therefore a different way of releasing the billions we are talking about here, which could be a billion which could be used for the very citizen-centred welfare that citizens can feel, instead of perhaps a little more inefficient workflows and bureaucratic rules that need to be followed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195547	Kristian Hegaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195549	If you have wanted this efficiency and modernisation programme so hard, you must have thought about where it is believed that in recent years the municipalities have not re-prioritized, have not modernised, have not made it more efficient. Where is it that the rapporteur specifically imagines this billion to be found? The rapporteur is allowed to play a wise yoke against me. I am new, so I am happy to let you know where the money is actually to be found.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195616	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195617	I think this would be the first time in world history if any development in how funds can be used effectively would stop per year. date of day. I think it would. Fortunately, there is always a development going on, for example. technologically, and you become more skilled. I mentioned that there are 98 municipalities that do things differently, and of course that is something you learn from. So, fortunately, development continues in this way, and thus also the possibility that we can release those funds, but notice if we work systematically with it, and that is what the Minister of Innovation is in the lead in being able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195650	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195652	Thank you. I was also aware that the rapporteur said that money is not everything, and I actually agree with the rapporteur on that. The will is at least as important. A good friend, who is dependent on disability benefits, told me here at Easter how he was stressed by having an eternal discussion about whether he could count on having his regular helper, his regular helper, at night. And he is deeply dependent on that help because it is a prerequisite for him still to be rested and to do his job. There are far too few night shifts in home care, he says, which means that he could risk a very long time before he had help for a toilet visit. I have noted that the rapporteur will not make a suggestion as to what debureaucratisation could be about, but could the rapporteur perhaps make a suggestion as to what it is actually for a service that the citizen can expect when the next KL agreement is in place? And can my own good friend, for example. Count on his regular helper in the night shift in the future, too?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195809	Now, fortunately, it is the municipality that is also to be a local priority. However, just such an example, which is being set out here, clearly underlines the need for us to have some funds released, which today may be going to comply with the rules of trouble and other things, and, in return, to have some more money to be able to intervene, for example, in the area of disability, or where otherwise there may be a great need for it. So I think that is actually a very fine example which underlines my point from before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195841	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195841-2	But apart from the fact that the rapporteur himself has argued in an earlier speech that this debureaucratisation would be far too early to start, I would just remind you that this is not a new discussion. In other words, we have been discussing debureaucratisation for years and will the rapporteur not admit that it is very similar to birds on the roof as long as we have no concrete proposals on how we can convert bureaucracy into real money that we can use for warm hands? I can also inform the rapporteur that the municipality in question would very much like to maintain the 24-7 scheme for the helper with disabilities, but is in doubt as to whether the money can actually be enough for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195924	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418195925	But should I take the view that the SF has thrown the towel into the ring and believes that now there can be no more bureaucracy? No, I do not hear the rapporteur of the SF say that, and that is why we also agree that it is possible to do so, if you do a proper and systematic job, and that is what the government has done. Then I just want to say that when you get lucky in releasing 1 billion. kr., where it is said that the half billion goes back to the municipality, then the other half billion can go to other areas but maybe also to the municipality if needed. I have a wife who is a nurse in a public hospital, and I have to say hello and say hello from her at least, and I believe in her that they are also running fast. So there could also be a need for further action, and that could be the second half billion you had to invest there, for example. So in this way, I think it is very reasonable that the agreement that has been reached can channel the funds released at least half of them to where you can see that there is a great need, for example in the municipalities, for example in the health sector, for example elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200017	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. The next one is sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200031	Thank you. Thank you to the SF for having called this inquiry debate. I think that is actually a very good tradition we should have introduced. I do not know whether we started the last year, but then we had with some success also a question debate prior to the economic negotiations between the government and the municipalities. I think that is a good idea, because it is the case that the economic negotiations will return to us here in the Danish Parliament when an agreement has been made and an act has to be voted on in the Finance Committee. It is therefore a very good idea that the parties here in the Danish Parliament, who ultimately have to be responsible for the municipalities' finances, should also be given the opportunity to state where they really stand. Unfortunately, I have to say that there is no indication that until now we can at least repeat the success of last year, when we actually managed to create a majority here in Parliament in order to abolish the hated re-priority contribution. Not only did our geniuses in this Parliament succeed, but because of the fact that there were some negotiators on the board of the National Association of Municipalities who stood firm, greatly supported by a welfare movement outside the Danish Parliament, where more than 70 cities were demonstrated against the government's austerity plans in the municipal area. That would be nice, and I think it is necessary that we try to repeat that movement if we are to succeed in getting a good result out of the economic negotiations. For what we have seen so far is unfortunately that the Danish People's Party has already committed itself to a joint proposal for adoption with the government, in which there are no concrete demands on what the government should deliver in the economic negotiations when it comes to ensuring welfare in the municipalities. Not even in what is claimed by the Danish People's Party, namely the area of the elderly, there are any concrete demands in the proposal for the adoption of what the government should live up to. This does not look very good, which is why I am glad that the opposition has been able to reach agreement in the rest of the House on a small corner, but after all a very important corner, namely that we have to abolish or at least neutralize the impact of this efficiency programme, which the government is so pleased with, and in which municipalities are forced to save 1 billion. kr. a year. Then they even call it new money, and then they can keep half of them. That's an amazing generosity. So I am glad that we are some parties that hold onto it. I'd like to put some things in place. After all, we have all heard of the examples of the elderly, who are lying with heavy diapers, of the single night shift in nursing homes, who have to deal with many, many demented residents at the care centre, that there are too many children per year. teaching in the institutions and that the primary school is struggling with tough demands to include large, difficult tasks without getting the necessary funds. There's a reality behind it. 35,000 public servants have disappeared in the field of welfare, mainly since 2009. I would like to mention these figures: almost 7,000 primary school teachers have disappeared; 3,000 fewer educationalally trained staff and 2,500 fewer educators and pedagogues; 7,500 fewer day care workers; 11,500 fewer social workers and health workers; 3 500 fewer specialist workers; cleaning assistants: barely 3,500 fewer. So there is a reason why we have all these examples. There is a reason why parents are saddened by the standard of cleaning in schools and the standard of education. And we could go on. So what you're asking is, where's all that money gone? It's not that complicated. The Minister for Finance gave the answer here to a question from the Alternative: since 2002, there has been a net increase of 30 billion. kr. in tax relief, of which the best-off sections of the population have benefited most. The 10%. The richest have simply become richer during that period. Things are connected. It must be corrected that I would just like to say to my fellow Members in the opposition: there is more to be done than abolishing this efficiency contribution. We need to raise the economy in the municipalities, quite simply. We could at least take them back to the service framework they had in 2012, which would mean that we should add approx. 3 billion kr. to the welfare of the municipalities. And then, of course, we must also ensure that this will continue to follow demographic developments in the future. But the government and apparently its majority in the form of the Danish People's Party have not really intended that either, because then such a proposal for adoption as has been put forward here today had not been made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200545	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200548	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. When the rapporteur is now talking about citizen-centred welfare, and when I pointed out before, when I was on the platform, that citizen-close welfare is also expenditure on refugees and migrants, I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Well, in case Mr. Keating isn't here. Hansen lies in his bed at the care centre with a wet diaper and cannot be changed and then he is told that the service frame has increased by 1%. out in the municipalities, but that they have just gone to extra housing allowance for refugees, the bourgeois welfare has then increased for Mr. Hansen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200630	Probably not. And if I am then asked how it might be that things are going so wrong, I would say that it is probably because there is some majority that has helped some government to ensure that the municipalities should not have more money than that. And it's certainly not Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200649	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200650	Then I would like to ask the rapporteur something quite different. The rapporteur is so busy voting against this economic agreement, which the municipalities and KL are making every year, but which is traditionally supported because there is municipal autonomy. In connection with our belief that KL can also make an agreement, the Danish People's Party has voted in favour of this agreement that the municipalities and KL have made. When Helle Thorning-Schmidt was Prime Minister, we saw a loss of service year by year. Is the rapporteur not confident that KL and local government can lift any kind of negotiations themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200742	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200742-2	We have decided to do so, and we do not have a principle that we should always vote against economic agreements when they come up in the form of an act in the Committee on Finance. In fact, it is not our practice either. I can give you an example under the Thorning Government, where we actually voted in favour because there was too little, but, after all, a clear improvement in the economy of the municipalities in the act we voted for. However, we do not, as the Danish People's Party, have a principle that we announce in advance that whatever agreement comes, we will vote in favour of it, because it will put a lot of pressure on the municipalities, especially when you send the government of the city with such a piece of paper, where there are no concrete demands at all to ensure better welfare in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200825	Thank you for that, thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418200833	Thank you for that, President, and thank you to the SF for raising this debate. After all, this is an exciting debate when it comes to the economy of the municipalities, and I will now explain how the Liberal Alliance views it. It is our very clear position that the public sector should be provided with less money, including local authorities, no more money. In Denmark we have the world's highest tax burden, we have the world's second largest public sector, and at the same time the Danes' private consumption is low compared to other Western countries. In fact, private consumption in Denmark is below the OECD average, and this is precisely because we have the world's highest tax burden. Nowhere else in the world do politicians seize such a large share of the value creation of citizens and use them again on behalf of the citizens. That has to change. A balance must be restored between the size of the public economy and the size of the private economy, i.e. how much of the value citizens create when they go to work they are allowed to keep and can spend on welfare in their own families. We think this is extremely important. Therefore, the focus must be on how the many, many billions available in municipalities and the public sector in general are better spent, i.e. how we get more out of them, because of course we can do that. Because across the municipalities there is no link between the service provided and how much money is available in the same municipalities to provide the service. Therefore, the focus must of course be on how the money is spent better. The marginal gain for citizens by adding more money, when you have the world's highest public spending, is of course infinitely small, that is clear. Billion no. 500 doesn't do as much good as billions no. 100. That is why it is right and responsible to ensure that municipalities operate more efficiently, and there is room for that. Even Denmark's Radio has now realized it and now has a programme called the Year's Spill Prize, where you give a prize to the municipality that has wasted the money most, I was almost about to say idiotic way, but I don't know if I can, so I say instead I say something else, namely the most crazy way. Today I saw it was Randers Municipality who was nominated for drawing animals on the roads and spending 4 million. kr. On it. I guess that money could have been spent better. My point is that there is room for the money in the municipalities to be spent more efficiently, and that should be our focus rather than adding more money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201213	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201217	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I would like to stick to what the rapporteur says about spending less money in the public sector. In view of the fact that the rapporteur is a party partner with our new Minister for the Elderly, who says, at least when we have her in consultation and in consultation, that the government gives priority to the elderly area and will also put more effort there, where is it that we have to save when we also look at the demographic growth of older people that will weigh on these budgets?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201259	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201300	However, the area of the elderly is only one area of the municipalities, and one can easily imagine very low public consumption, including low consumption in the municipalities, and at the same time more money is being allocated to one area, for example. the elderly area. But, of course, the money must come from other areas. But it is also the case that even in the area of the elderly, not every penny is spent, which is spent one hundred percent effectively. There is also the possibility of better use of resources in the area of the elderly, and that should also be looked at. So, basically, I do not buy the premise that more money one for one provides better service, and there is no evidence of that when we look at it in relation to the municipalities. There may even be very great differences when you look at the budgets of the municipalities and the welfare they then provide. And, of course, we should focus on that, because every penny spent in the public sector comes from citizens, and they could have used that penny themselves, and often better, I think, than we can use it for them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201421	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201422	I was a little confused, so I would just like to hear the answer to a 'yes' or 'no' question in the end: does the rapporteur agree with his senior minister from the same party that we need more money in the area of the elderly? I could not fully understand whether the rapporteur agrees with it or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201441	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201443	I agree with what the Minister for the Elderly says, but the Minister for the Elderly has also said other things. And I know that the Minister for the Elderly has said several times, because I myself have been chairman of some of the consultations she has had in the Committee on Finance, based on the experience she has in this area, that money is not always the only thing that counts, not even in the area of the elderly, and that there is also the possibility that the many billions can be spent in this area more effectively and for the greater benefit of those who really are the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201521	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201523	Thank you. Frankly, I think it was such a little wool in the mouth response that was given to DF's rapporteur, but leave it at that. I would like to ask you about that, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen says that private consumption is higher in a large number of OECD countries. Will the rapporteur not mention some examples of private consumption in other countries that are being taxed here in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201556	It is quite true that part of what is public consumption in Denmark is paid by the citizens themselves, and I personally have no objection to that. But even when you correct it, we are not very high. A country like Germany, which has lower GDP per head. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous substances and preparations. And that certainly tells me, and I cannot understand why it does not say to everyone else that there is a room for the public economy to be operated more efficiently, so that citizens, workers, employees can retain a greater share of the value they actually create. I can't believe it's not important to the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201655	Here you go, SF's rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201656	I can certainly say that as a woman I would rather live in Denmark than in Germany. Even if I had kids I haven't... I'd rather live in Denmark than in Germany. There are very many women who have to look after their children and cannot go to work, and that is fine if it is a voluntary choice, but they do so because it is simply impossible to pay for childcare. You don't get the same welfare if you don't have your wallet in order. A number of the OECD countries, as Mr. Joachim B. Olsen highlights are countries where it is the wallet that decides whether you can take care of your grandmother or your children properly. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201743	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201743-2	If you take a country like Germany, for example. Looking at the care of the elderly, I would say that I would rather be older in Germany than I would be in Denmark. There you have far more opportunities to choose your own money, to a much greater extent than is the case in Denmark, and thus it brings with it a very, very wide variety of offers to the elderly. So no, I do not know that picture overall, and I also think that when you make comparisons between, for example. the Danish health service and the German health service, then the German health service will do better, and I believe that the same applies to education as well. I do not think it is possible to argue objectively that Danish young people are better educated than German young people, despite the fact that we spend a greater share of our wealth on it than we do, for example. Do in Germany. I would like to say quite briefly that I also note that the former Minister for Finance of the Social Democratic Party Bjarne Corydon also attached great importance to the fact that the focus should be on how we spend the money better in the future. I actually thought that was a good focus, and I think you should hold on to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201852	Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201853	I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that in the proposal for adoption, which, we should call it the government block, is agreed to put forward here today, there is no promise or demand that more money should be made for the elderly, nor are there any promises, demands or conditions that there should be more money for the welfare of the municipalities as a whole.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201930	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201932	Nor is there a promise to the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201936	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418201937	No, but that's not what I asked. I just want to know whether the rapporteur can confirm this, and I understand that the rapporteur confirms that there is no obligation whatsoever to add more money to the area of the elderly or to what the proposal for adoption calls the citizen-friendly welfare as such, which must of course be seen in the sense that it covers more than the area of the elderly. So I would just like to know whether the rapporteur can confirm that this is the lack of substance, if I may say so, of the proposal for adoption that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202010	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202011	I do not think there is anything new about the fact that when such proposals are made for adoption, they are not tied up because there are negotiations and waiting in the future. I do not think that is a characteristic of this government in a way other than that of previous governments, which the Enhedslisten has also supported, which has made similar proposals for decisions when we had similar debates. So there's nothing new in it or anything suspicious about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202039	Then it is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202043	Thank you. The rapporteur says that more money one to one is not equal to better service, and that at least hypothetically can be true enough. On the other hand, it is a fact that we have more elderly people over 80 years of age who have to share the same less money. Should the citizens expect that development to continue if it is to the Liberal Alliance?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202111	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202112	No, it cannot be said that in an area where there is demographic pressure, no more money should be added. You can't, and it's not LA's policy either. But we can expect this, and I think it is not just for us, but for the government in office in the coming years at all times, just as it was for the government in which SF was part of where expenditure fell, that the economy would be tight. I believe that, and we believe in LA, it should also be because we need to restore the balance between the public economy and the private economy. And there is far too little private space. The welfare that means a great deal to citizens in their everyday lives, namely how much they have to do well to make a daily life work, but also to live out the dreams they may have in the family, whether it is working less or going on travels or whatever it is, there must be better room for. Because I don't mind people working less if they do it on their own account.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202219	Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202221	Now it is not the majority of elderly care users over the age of 80 who think particularly much about travelling and how much work to do, but let it be. Are I to understand the rapporteur's response that this means that the Liberal Alliance is actually prepared to ensure that the economy follows demographic developments in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202243	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202244	There's some kind of technique about this demographic trait. After all, it is a standard calculation which does not take account of the fact that productivity can be increased. If there are more older people, the marginal cost will also be reduced, i.e. there are some economies of scale, that the last elderly person does not cost as much as the first elderly person. I think this is extremely relevant, and it is in all other respects. It is also in our own economy at home. One cannot just say that it should follow one to one based on a technical calculation of what the demographic trait is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202336	Thank you. Sir. Benny Engelbrecht, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202338	Thank you, President. Like Mrs Susanne Eilersen, I noticed Mr. Joachim B. Olsen's statement that the aim was to spend less money in the public sector. That's why I'm just gonna have to ask you about sir. Joachim B. Olsen and the Liberal Alliance can vouch for the proposal for adoption which has otherwise been put forward, among other things. The name of the Liberal Alliance, because in the motion for a resolution it says that you want an agreement with the National Association of Municipalities, which I now quote:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ supports an ever-better level of service for citizen-friendly welfare..... I have a little difficulty in imagining a situation where you can both spend less money and not just maintain the current service level, but even get a better service level. Or is that how it should be understood?
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202445	I can easily imagine the situation where, in the public economy and in the way you spend money, you can both spend less money, but also get a better level of service.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202457	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202459	To make it quite clear: when this proposal for adoption states that you want to support a still better level of service, it is under no circumstances the same as increasing the resources of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202519	Well, it is clearly my personal position and my party's position that the level of service must, of course, be raised. There are many places in public production and you can think about why it is so important that it is a public production where the service is too poor and where the money is spent incorrectly. So you can easily make sure from here that we get a better level of service, even if you don't add more money. I think so. I also believe that I have a good basis for saying this, among other things. on the basis of the Productivity Commission, which Mr. Benny Engelbrecht's party helped to reduce. Sir. After all, Benny Engelbrecht's party found some of the best and wisest people in the country with a sense of this, and they said quite clearly that yes, it is possible, if the least efficiently run municipalities approach the most efficiently run municipalities, to raise the level of service, even if you spend less money. That is the way we should go, because this is the money of the citizens we are spending.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202622	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's comments. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418202642	Thank you. And thank you to the SF for raising this debate. I think it is very good that we will have a discussion about the agreement between the municipalities and the government on the economy of the municipalities for 2018 before it really starts. We support the proposal for adoption made by the parties in the opposition. I think it is important to emphasise that there is a need for municipalities to have an economic framework that allows them to address the challenges that exist, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The alternative is very concerned to free the municipalities, which means that the municipalities themselves can give priority to the specific needs they have within the financial framework that we are then discussing here today. Having said that, I would like to stress that this also means in our optics that the management of the municipalities' finances is too tight. In 2016, 39.5 billion had been saved. kr. in the municipal coffers, and the municipalities, as it looks today, do not have the opportunity to use them. I can then read in the paper today that the Minister for Finance, as I read it at least, opens up the possibility of planning for years to come. I think that sounds really, really good because, as I said, it is too tight. The budgetary law's straitjacket makes it difficult for municipalities to plan. The reason why the municipalities have saved up all this money is precisely because the municipalities do not have the courage to budget up to the ceiling, which means that they are underbudgeting, and that is a huge problem. This means that there is, in fact, much more money that the municipalities have the opportunity to spend, but that they cannot spend today. What I have also heard the Minister of Finance say in an earlier article is that the municipalities cannot be allowed to spend this money on welfare. And that's where the movie really breaks for me. As I understand the Left, the Left is also very concerned about municipal self-government, which is why I find it strange that it is the Finance Minister and the Folketing and the government that have to control what the municipalities actually have the opportunity to spend their money on. I hope that is something we can discuss further, so that it will be precisely the municipalities themselves who decide how they will spend their money. Then I would have praised Mr. Jacob Jensen, but he is not here right now, in order to really take up the whole debate on the simplification, trust and debureaucratisation of rules, which I think is an extremely important agenda. I look forward very much to the Minister for Innovation inviting the parties to discuss this further in relation to how it is going to run. One of the problems that has at least been the problem, and this also applies to the previous government, is that the efficiency that you think will be achieved after we get rid of bureaucracy, has actually been cut in advance. So you take the prize before you can see if it really has an effect. And we know this is a major problem for the municipalities as well. Just to make it clear, the Alternative wants the money to be saved on better trust in the public employees, we believe that they well know how to handle things and real de-bureaucratisation, of course, must remain in the system for the benefit of the citizens and for the benefit of welfare. Yes, but thank you for taking the debate. I think it is a good debate we have and I look forward to the further progress on the municipal agreements. I hope we will have the opportunity to discuss this further here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203055	We are not quite finished yet, because we have a brief comment from Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203100	I would just like to thank you for your speech and also for pointing out that the tight framework there is is actually forcing municipalities to underbudget because the consequences of not doing so can be so serious. When they hear from different sides that they can just spend the money that is, it is almost a mockery because the consequences are so great. That is why we also agree that we should loosen up a little. Because it is almost impossible to hit the bottom line perfectly, which means that the municipalities are extra careful and that we see that they are underbudgeting. So thank you for pointing that out too. It's a pretty important element. Then, in fact, I agree with Mrs Josephine Fock in the praise to the Minister for Finance to consider making multiannual budgets, because that is something that could make it more efficient and also make it easier for municipalities to plan and actually make better and smarter use of the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203205	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203206	Thank you. I take this most as a comment, and I would just like to comment on the fact that the fact that the municipalities have not dared to spend the money up to the ceiling in the budget, we have seen over the past many years. This is a huge problem, because there is just money there waiting to be used for the welfare and service of the citizens. So we need to unblock this, and I also think it is very important to open up the way for them to budget over a multiannual period.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203236	Thank you to Mrs Josephine Fock. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kristian Hegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203243	Thank you. The Radical Left has two very central wishes for the framework of the municipalities' economy: that the municipalities should have as much autonomy and room for manoeuvre as possible and thus be able to secure investment in children, young people and education, and that the agreements concluded between KL and the municipalities should be respected, because this is an excellent contractual system. This ensures stability and direction for the state, while at the same time meeting challenges in the short and long term in the individual municipalities, which may have very large and diverse challenges in complying with the service framework and tackling increasing expenditure pressures and in complying with the plant ceiling in connection with, for example, renovations or new entrants in the municipalities. We believe that it is extremely important for the tranquillity of the municipal economy to be brought about in order to plan the implementation of the core welfare, and there is the re-priority contribution or the efficiency and modernisation programme a very difficult budgetary planning tool. The two things are, in fact, exactly the same. You take from the municipalities and give back a small amount. I wonder if it gets a third name in the next financial agreement. We can only guess that, but instead of making up new names all the time, we could just remove it, because it puts the municipalities under a lot of pressure, while at the same time saving a great many areas. That is why minus growth is devastating, and that is why, with this request, we propose that the government leave the gains due to the modernisation and efficiency programme in the municipalities. At KL's summit, the Prime Minister delivered a surprisingly good speech. After all, he took over a little unconventional from the Home Secretary. Among other things, it was... mentioned that all children must be the winners of the future and that we should not be patient on behalf of our children, because they only go to the 7th, 8th and 9th classes once. Yes, in some respects the speech was almost radical. It is to be hoped that it was not just a toast that was served at the KL's summit that it would be a pity for the children at risk for whom a hope was set, but that there is a willingness to give more children and young people opportunities, that there is a willingness to break the anti-education agenda that has otherwise been set elsewhere with upper secondary school savings, university savings and educational ceilings. I believe that both the municipalities and the children will be ready as soon as the government is. Now we are just waiting to see what the government's priorities are in the forthcoming economic negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203523	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments and I do not see any more rapporteurs asking to speak. That is why it is the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418203540	Thank you. I don't have to do this night much longer. There have, however, been a few comments along the way to which I would like to make a few comments. First of all, I would like to ask Mr. Benny Engelbrecht to travel a little more around the country and talk to some more companies and possibly read some more of the reports from the National Bank and the Economic Council if it is so that Mr. Benny Engelbrecht has not heard of the risk of overheating. Unfortunately, this is something we hear more and more places around the country, that is, that companies have difficulty in getting sufficient labour in such a way. This is also something I hear the Social Democrats talk about in relation to bringing more people with the right qualifications into the labour market. In relation to the issue of the modernisation programme mentioned by several speakers, it is the case that what was agreed last year was to replace the re-priority contribution with a joint modernisation programme, in other words a modernisation programme in which the State, in the form of the Ministry of Finance and the other ministries, and then the National Association of Municipalities, must jointly point out how one billion kroner can be released, so that one can, as it were, do the same thing, but one billion less. Half a billion will then remain in the municipalities, while half a billion will be spent on cross-cutting priorities in the public sector as a whole. Among other things, when you're in the middle of your life, you're in the middle of your life. asks Mr. Jacob Jensen on what can be specifically pointed out, there is not a clear answer, and neither is there, if I get the question now and are asked what is to happen in concrete terms. Because these discussions, as we speak here, are taking place during the preparations between the National Association of Municipalities and the Ministry of Finance prior to the negotiations which, as I started by saying a few hours ago, have not begun at all yet. That is why a joint process is under way here, over which the municipalities have taken much more ownership than I think the debate here today has reflected. There is much greater ownership on the part of the municipalities to actually want to make some measures that simplify and modernise and remove unnecessary rules in relation to the municipalities. And when they point to cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, it is partly because the Ministry of Finance often helps to look at how we can make things more effective in the public sector as a whole. It has puzzled me that some of the parties that sat in government when the then Finance Minister said that 12 billion could be saved. kr. in the state by modernising, now flatly rejecting that one can do so in the municipalities. It may be that you did not believe it when they said it and just thought it was a figure that was invented in the Ministry of Finance. But it was at least a figure that was repeated by all three parties in the then government as being something that was sought to free up a room for manoeuvre. And I believe that it is possible to create room for manoeuvre by making the public sector more efficient. This applies both to government budgets and to the economy of the municipalities. That is why I am surprised that one has so quickly forgotten one's own policy, unless one has the approach to it that one can just say something without really thinking it, even if one is in government, and of course I do not think any of the three parties have done so. When Mr. Finn Sørensen says that it is a good idea and tradition that it has now been introduced to debate questions about the economy of the municipalities, I would say that people with a long memory will remember that in 2005, 2006 and 2007 we had similar query debates. But they were abolished again, because what can be said about the forthcoming negotiations is very, very little. And that is why it will be more a general discussion on the economy of the municipalities, which was carried out at varying intervals from 2007, until it was, as it were, reinstated last year. For my sake, you can ask the questions you want. We have to accept that the possibility of saying a great deal as a negotiating party about negotiations that have not yet started is therefore limited. Therefore, there is a more general discussion about the economy of the municipalities than a discussion about the forthcoming negotiations. In relation to what needs to be done in the future, I would just like to remind Mr. Kristian Hegaard said it was when Mr. Kristian Hegaard's party sat in government that we had minus growth in the municipalities. That is where we actually saw that less money was spent than had been done in previous years. With what was proposed and with the budgets that were put in place, more money was provided both in the Municipality Agreement for 2016 and in the Municipality Agreement for 2017. And what we can see is important to ensure forward-looking is that there is agreement compliance. I think it is a huge challenge for the whole value of the contract-based system that agreements concluded on the allocation between the operating framework and the construction framework are not subsequently respected. The idea of making an agreement that is divided into operations and installations is that it should be possible to manage the overall public economy in Denmark. And if you just say that the agreement is some figures on a piece of paper and not something that actually has to be observed afterwards, then it will be difficult to trust that we can manage the public economy. We are at a balance point in Denmark, and we will be forward-looking if the recovery continues and we do not increase labour supply sufficiently, so we have enough hands for the more jobs that come. It is a good thing that things are going well in the Danish economy. We should all rejoice in this, rejoice in this. Unemployment is falling, employment is rising, there is a growth in Denmark that seems to be greater now than it has been for many years, and it is pleasing. The black cloud that threatens on the horizon is the one that tells us that there is not enough labour supply, enough hands to do something about it, and that is why we need to be able to manage the public economy quite tightly. Then I would just like to say to Mrs Susanne Eilersen that it is quite true that the municipalities are relieved of enormous pressure by the fact that the number of refugees who come here has diminished. One of the things that we heard about over and over again a year ago when we talked to the municipalities was: how are we going to cope with the great pressure that the high number of asylum seekers gives us in the municipalities? How are we supposed to provide accommodation? How are we to ensure integration? We have brought down the number with the austerity that the government and the Danish People's Party have carried out together with other parties, but it is primarily due to the government and the Danish People's Party that the influx has now come much more under control than it was 1 or 2 years ago. This means that the pressure on the municipalities' economy will be much less, and we will have the opportunity to prioritise other important areas in the municipalities, and I think that is welcome. At the end of the day, I just want to say that it seems to me that Mr. Finn Sørensen has forgotten that a number of parties, namely the then government, the Danish People's Party, the Social Democracy and the Radical Left, reached an agreement in June 2015 that we are, as it were, at the goal of the contractual system. This means that the parties have indicated in advance that if a municipality agreement has been concluded between the government and the National Association of Municipalities, the parties mentioned will support that agreement. And when sir... Finn Sørensen says about a single party that they have promised to vote in favour of what is included in the agreement, so I would just like to say that we are fortunately a group of parties which respect the tradition of the Danish economy, namely that we respect concluded municipal agreements and support them in the Finance Committee. The Left has emphasized this during the period in which we were in opposition, and on that day, in many, many years, when it might happen that we were again in opposition, yes, we will back the agreements that might be made, because that is part of having the governance of the municipalities' economy and the freedom that we have today to conclude municipal agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204409	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204412	I think I should fairly remind the Minister for Finance of what I actually said earlier. It has now been a while since I had the floor and I do not think that the Minister was able to give me a full report. I made it a matter of duty to point out that if you were concerned about overheating and worried about bottleneck challenges, perhaps you should start by looking at the housing job scheme, which provides a tax discount for doing different activities in the construction sector. And then I must also remind the Minister for Finance that my party and I are behind a proposal to make initiatives to deal with bottleneck challenges in particular, and of course the Minister is very welcome to invite us to discuss this at any time. We'll be happy to see if we can move on with that catalogue of ideas.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204509	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204510	Then I regret that my notebook system has been incomplete and that the problem of overheating, or whether there was any overheating, had been raised by Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen instead. I recognise, of course, that this may be a mistake in relation to the way I have noted it down from today's debate. It is so important to us that, if we are to be able to manage the public economy, we must be able to manage both operations and installations, and that is what will be the challenge facing the future, in other words to be able to ensure that the agreements concluded are also respected.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204547	Sir. Benny Engelbrecht.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204548	Now that we are in the process of making corrections, I would just like to say for the record that it is not because we do not believe in achieving efficiency in the municipalities. However, we believe that it will provide a much greater incentive if the municipalities are allowed to keep the full benefit of it themselves. Then it may even be that we achieve a synergy effect, as we know from lean procedures in different industrial contexts, i.e. that if the production units can see that the efficiency that comes out of it is allowed to keep for themselves, then it provides an incentive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204626	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204627	Then I think, sir. Benny Engelbrecht has misunderstood that part of it, because I am kind of in favour of the municipalities doing all the lean projects they can possibly think of. And that is precisely where they have the incentive to keep the whole efficiency gain by implementing this kind of lean projects. What is our modernisation and efficiency programme is that we must jointly look at what the rules are, what the conditions are, what the legislation is, which prevents what the municipalities want to do. Because in relation to the issue of carrying out lean projects and doing the work that is being done in a more efficient and streamlined way, the municipalities can indeed get to grips with it. They have a hundred percent right to keep the prize they get out of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204703	Then it's Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204704	Thank you. I'd like to take responsibility for that quote. And when the minister was interviewed for today's newspaper, there was also a reply from the director of Dansk Byggeri, Lars Storr-Hansen, who said: "We are not facing bottlenecks immediately. There are still as many companies that lack tasks as there are companies that lack employees. However, let us say that the Minister of Finance is really afraid of overheating in the construction industry, and I mentioned this earlier, but we could not propose to relax housing taxes because it has an effect in this area. There are many other things you could do. From the political point of view, you choose to say that it is the public building that has to last, that is to say schools, nursing homes and roads. The Minister for Finance is absolutely right that the level is high. It was historically high under our government, and it is still high. But it will also have to be high, because it was far too low in the past, and it costs far too much money to delay repairing and improving the existing building.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204818	Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204819	I understand that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has read today's edition of Politiken. Then I am sorry that Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen has forgotten the graph that is at the bottom and that shows that the highest level of municipal construction activities was created by the then VK government in 2010. So if you're going to take credit for the level being raised, it was in 2010 that the level was really raised. In relation to the issue of overheating, I am not surprised that the director of a trade association believes that more should be done in the trade association he is the director of. If you take Danmarks Statistik, which is perhaps a neutral player in this area, which records how many cases there are of overheating, i.e. how many problems there are with recruiting people, you will see that in the last quarters there has been a clear increase in the problem of recruiting for the construction sector. But, of course, Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen may not recognise official statistics in this area and rather rely on the director of the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204918	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418204919	No, I recognise it, and that is what I said. If we say that it is too high in construction and construction, there are several things you can do. This can always be done, whether you think there is fear of overheating or there is fear of overheating in general in the economy. Then you can do extractive and contractive politics. It's completely child-loving. I would just say that there is, after all, a political choice in saying that it is the public who should stand up for so that there should not be enough money to ensure proper schools, nursing homes, roads and so on. You could also choose something else, and I just hope the Minister of Finance will acknowledge that. You could also choose another policy that would keep it quiet.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205004	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205004-2	May I not just repeat that in the Economic Statement in April 2015, that is, before the change of government, the then government said that there was an overbudgeting of public capital investment and that public capital investment had to be reduced by 5 billion. kr. It is therefore a finding that the level of public construction planned was too high before the change of government; before a proposal was put forward to ensure that the housing owners were insured; to ensure that the tax for homeowners really becomes correct and more precise than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205041	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205042	Thank you. At any rate, I agree with the Minister for Finance that it is absolutely correct to say that under the SRSF government too, the number of welfare posts in the municipalities was reduced, and that is why I went back to 2009, and this was done, despite the fact that, together with the Enhedslisten, a majority could have been obtained for a different course. But they chose to make the heavy economic policy together with the Left and the other bourgeois parties. That is absolutely correct, and it must be included in describing developments in the economy and welfare of the municipalities. It is also quite true that the Social Democratic Party, like the Danish People's Party and the Left, has committed itself to the fact that no matter what financial agreement a finance minister comes home with, one will vote for it. There is so little positive difference in favour of the Social Democratic Party that, after all, last year, and also this year, before the negotiations, they have tried to influence its framework. That is where, after all, I am a little pleased with the social democracy and the cooperation with them on the economy of the municipalities. So I just need to ask the Minister to confirm that there is that difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205154	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205155	I do not see that there should be a significant difference. When earlier on from Mr. Finn Sørensen's side has been asked whether there is anything in the proposal for adoption that the Danish People's Party has helped to put forward, which guarantees that exactly the older area will receive more money, I just want to say that there is nothing in the proposal for adoption that Mr. Finn Sørensen has put forward that exactly the older area should have more money • nothing. Both proposals for adoption refer to core welfare and the whole welfare area and not specifically to the area of the elderly, so I cannot understand the accusation that was raised earlier by Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205232	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205233	It is good that the Minister can defend the Danish People's Party. When I raised that criticism of the Danish People's Party, it was of course because the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party spoke in the way she did about the elderly area. But let's get back to another lead. The Minister says that we can hold all the questions we want, but we will not get anything out of them anyway. That's because the minister won't tell us what way he's going in these negotiations except that he wants to keep this efficiency contribution. So I think the minister should tone clean flags. We must do so before we enter into a debate. You have to know what you want, and you have to inform the people about it. So the question is: in the view of the Minister, do the municipalities get more money for welfare, get the same amount, or do they get less money for welfare when the economic debate starts? What's the minister's take on that? It might be interesting to get it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205326	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205328	I am simply defending the proposal for adoption that the government supports. The proposal for adoption is as clear as it is on how to give priority to public welfare services as the proposal for adoption, as Mr. Finn Sørensen has tabled. What is stated in the proposal for adoption is what we can put forward in the negotiations, namely that we want to ensure overall better welfare within a responsible financial framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205352	Thank you to the Minister for Finance. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. The vote on the proposed adoption will take place on Thursday 20 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170418205406	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday, 19 April 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
