ParlaMint-DK_20170421100012	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421100019	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 25 April 2017. It is first the rapporteur for the questioners, sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421100046	Thank you very much, President. The reform of early retirement and flexible jobs has been subject to intense criticism ever since the former Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, presented her presentation for the reform in spring 2012. Criticism has only increased as the reform has begun to work, and after the media has set one example after another, that seriously ill people have been denied early retirement and instead forced into new work tests, meaningless processes of resources and mini-flex jobs, often contrary to medical recommendations and warnings that the situation of the citizen would probably deteriorate. The criticism has come from a large number of interest organisations, from the citizens themselves and here in the Danish Parliament from Enhedslisten, Dansk Folkeparti and after the last election also from the Alternative. The problems have been discussed on a regular basis here in the Folketing. The conciliation parties have also held a number of meetings, after which they have sent out new guidelines to the municipalities for the stated purpose of improving the use of resources by the municipalities. However, this has not caused the criticism to fade away. At the same time, the conciliation parties have announced that they will carry out a thorough evaluation of the reform in the autumn. The Enhedslist therefore believes that we need to have a thorough debate on the human and social consequences of the reform, in the hope that it can influence the conciliation parties to make up for the worst errors in the legislation. So I look forward to a good, thorough and lively debate on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421100217	Thank you. It is the Minister of Employment for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421100227	Thank you. I would also like to thank you for the opportunity today in Parliament to highlight a very, very important issue, namely the issue of what the Minister can tell us about the human and socio-economic consequences of the changes to the law on early retirement and flexible jobs of 1 January 2013. After all, we had part of the debate yesterday in Parliament, not on the whole reform, but on parts of the reform and, above all, on the progress of resources, and we will probably come back to that during today's debate. What the question debate is about today is that the Enhedslisten will focus on the human and socio-economic consequences of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. This is certainly a good opportunity to take stock of the reform, which I believe everyone in this Parliament knows was adopted by a broad majority of the Folketing under the former SRSF government. I can start this debate by saying that, in my opinion, the reform is right and, above all, important for the citizens who are at risk in our society. With the reform there has been an absolutely necessary paradigm change. The starting point now is that people should not be parked on passive support if there is a realistic opportunity for them to become part of the labour market. I think that is a very, very important political signal to send out to those people who, in one way or another, have or are experiencing problems. The reform must also be seen in the light of the fact that developments in that direction, I think, were completely wrong. More and more people were granted an early retirement pension, including an increasing number of young people with mental disorders. All the parties behind the reform agreed that this tedious development should be tried to reverse and that it is certainly not perspectiveful, either for the individual or for society, to abandon people to a passive life of early retirement. Let me therefore start with the intention behind the reform. It is very clear in the first lines of the text of the agreement, and I quote: '... it is necessary to rethink the area of early retirement and flexible work so that more people will be able to realise their potential in an active working life and be part of the community. This requires that people with a potential ability to work receive the necessary help to develop their ability to work so that they do not end up on early retirement. The reform therefore built up a completely new system in the country's municipalities with rehabilitation teams and coordinating caseworker. At the same time, a whole new effort was built up with multi-disciplinary resource processes and a new flex-job scheme. There is room for people with a limited ability to work. I therefore believe that the intentions of the reform are absolutely right and absolutely necessary. We must make every effort to support people getting closer to the labour market through resource processes or flex jobs. Nor is there any doubt that it was and is an ambitious reform that takes time to implement. The conciliation circle is therefore also following implementation very closely, and I will come back to that in a moment. However, I welcome the fact that the reform, some four years after it came into force, has shown good tactics. The rise to early retirement has almost halved from approx. 1,400 people per month 2011 to approx. 700 persons per month in 2016. The largest relative decline has occurred among young people under 40 years of age, and this is probably the greatest success of the reform, because it also means that far more people today are actively engaged in a resource cycle or in a flexible job scheme. Right now, approx. 19,000 citizens in resource development, and the latest figures show that almost one in three who have completed a process of resource development have strengthened their links with the labour market. They have either entered ordinary employment, in flexible jobs or in training. 3% is in ordinary employment, 12%. is in flex jobs, 13%. is on unemployment benefit, and 1%. is in education 3 months after the end of the resource cycle. The national user survey among citizens in resource sequences has shown that the majority of citizens are satisfied with their resource sequences. 43% is satisfied, 33 percent. is dissatisfied, and 24%. does not know or has failed to reply. The most satisfied citizens are those who themselves want a process of resource development, and they are especially young people and citizens with mental disorders. I am also aware that there is particular satisfaction with the business-oriented offers, which are also some of the things that we know work best when it comes to getting citizens back into the labour market. At the same time, it shows that the rhetoric of meaningless work tests far from drawing the full picture of those who are in progress in the labour market. I also think that is important to mention today and, above all, to remember as a politician in parliament. The reform has also meant that we have created a more inclusive flex-job scheme in which citizens with a very small working capacity can also get their resources in play. Right now, approx. 20,000 citizens with a significantly reduced working capacity in flex jobs of up to 10 hours a week, the so-called mini-flex jobs. Finally, I would also like to mention that the unemployment rate among flex workers has fallen from approx. 25% ed 18% The many achievements are important steps in the right direction. It is particularly important that more citizens today receive the right help and support through an effort to bring them closer to the labour market. It is also important, however, that early retirement should continue to be granted to those citizens who are so ill or have such significant disability that it is evidently pointless to try to develop their ability to work. It is also important to emphasise. The early retirement pension was not abolished with the reform, although many people make it sound like that. Last year approx. 8,400 new early retirement pensions. Having said that, the conciliation circle and myself, as Minister for Employment, are fully aware that we are still facing a wide range of challenges. We know, for example. from user surveys, that for many citizens experience that they do not have enough influence on their own course. We have also heard from the media about the reform and the citizen's requests about examples of events where citizens have not been able to see the meaning and purpose or purpose of the effort. There is no doubt that there is still room for improvement when it comes to having good, high-quality resource runs. That was precisely why last month's conciliation circle agreed on a package of initiatives to help create a clear framework for resource development and greater security for our citizens. In the conciliation circle we followed the reform very closely, not least during the former Minister for Employment, Jørn Neergaard Larsen. But also in recent months, when I have had the pleasure of being Minister for Employment, I have devoted a great deal of effort to the whole issue of this issue. Nor is there any doubt that it will continue to fill much in the work of the Ministry of Employment in the near future. With the latest package of initiatives, we are now making even more specific progress. Firstly, by means of a new letter, we are setting a clear framework for who should have a sequence of resources and who should not. The letter also makes it clear that, as I said yesterday, internship should never worsen the health of citizens and that internship is always about real work to develop the citizen, and not the opposite. It is absolutely fundamental for me to make this point again in this debate. Secondly, as an attempt, we give the citizens the right to have the regional health coordinates involved in the organisation of the concrete action with the development of resources. The aim of this is to provide greater security for citizens who are concerned about whether a specific offer takes sufficient account of their health. Finally, and thirdly, as part of the initiative package, we have prioritised approx. 40 million kr. to a project to strengthen citizen involvement, reduce processing times and ensure good and active enterprise-oriented action. Subsequently, I have also written to all the municipalities of the country about the package of initiatives. It is important that the municipalities support and support that resource processes always become the help that they are intended to be. Finally, let me pick up on the social and human consequences of the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. The reform has meant an absolutely necessary and important shift in the effort for our vulnerable citizens, so that we now focus on citizens' opportunities and not on their limitations. From both a human and a social point of view, this is very positive, and we must bear that in mind. We are making a long-term investment in those citizens who are furthest away from the labour market, and therefore it is also essential that what is being put into effect is in the right direction and makes sense. My main focus is therefore to continue to ensure that the reform meets the high expectations that we had when it was adopted. The next milestone and this is a crucial milestone will be the big evaluation of the whole reform that will take place here in 2017. It must provide us with a solid foundation to see if there is a need for adjustments to the reform. And I would also like to say here today, as I said yesterday, that we are completely open to this in the conciliation circle and therefore also in the government. There is no doubt that the reform is basically right, but we are also prepared to negotiate or act to ensure that the intentions are fulfilled. I would also like to look forward to discussing this with the Danish Parliament's parties. It is not necessarily the case that everything in this regard is being discussed today, and that is why we will return to this issue later, I think, here in the course of 2017. I also expect that constructive consultations will continue and questions will be asked about the consequences and effects of the reform. With this, however, I would like to look forward to a good and constructive debate here in the Parliamentary Assembly on a very important subject, both socio-economic and, above all, political, for the citizens whom we wish to help or provide a closer link with the Danish labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421101308	Thank you, Minister. And then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421101322	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for your reply. For Enhedslisten, it is important to examine how such a reform works on the most vulnerable people. It is probably extremely important when we are talking about a reform of early retirement and flexible jobs. We had a long debate yesterday, and it is my impression that most of the parties behind the reform are in fact badly affected by the many grotesque examples of how municipalities treat seriously ill people. I am thinking of the many examples that have been made in the media, the many approaches that we, as members of parliament, receive from the citizens concerned, and which I know the Minister has also received, namely examples that seriously ill people are denied early retirement, even if the ability to work is close to being or actually is zero. Instead, these people have been forced into further work tests on top of the tests they have already undergone, often for several years, or in resource sequences or flex jobs of a few minutes or hours per week. Indeed, there have been examples that citizens have been told to take the bed to work so that they can rest after working for the 10 minutes to which their ability to work extends. There are also many examples of this happening in opposition to medical recommendations and warnings that such a course is likely to only worsen the state of the citizen. This clearly affects the parties behind the reform. Everyone beats seven crosses for themselves and says it wasn't really the intention of the law. Unfortunately, until now it has been tricked with concrete proposals from the conciliation parties and the government on what needs to be done about it, in addition to sending out new guidelines and recommendations to the municipalities • guidelines and recommendations which, when you study them more closely, you can see nothing adding to what is already in the law. The conciliation parties simply do not want to deal with the question of whether it is perhaps the law that is wrong with it. That shouldn't be so hard to see. In the vast majority of cases, the Ankestyrelsen approves of the grotesque examples from which we are all opposed in this Chamber. As can be seen from the Ankestyrelsen's May 2015 practice study, the Ankestyrelsen also believes that in a number of cases the municipalities have been too lenient in granting early retirement. The municipalities have not sufficiently documented what is required for early retirement, namely that it must be clearly pointless to try to develop the citizen's ability to work. However, it is up to the municipality to assess it, and if the municipality has just the slightest expectation that the citizen can develop his or her ability to work in the long term, then no early retirement can be granted. Then employment measures must be taken to try to develop employability. That is the intention of the law, says the Ankestyrelsen, and unfortunately they are right, for it is loud and clear in section 16 of the law. As you know, the words of the Ankestyrelsen are law unless the civil courts say otherwise. They just don't do that in this area. On the contrary, they approve the interpretation of the law by the Ankestyrelsen. The conclusion must therefore be that the municipalities generally do what the law says they should, and the task they have been assigned to do was to reduce the number of early retirement workers. We have succeeded. Instead, they had to ensure that sick citizens would move on to cheaper services such as resource development and mini-flex jobs. It has also succeeded. However, it has not succeeded in getting people in ordinary work. Only 3%. achieves it after a completed sequence of resources. A little over 40 percent. receive an early retirement pension anyway, and approx. 25% end up in new resource sequences on cash assistance or completely without support. It is true that approx. 12% flex jobs, mainly mini-flex jobs, which then do not meet the objective of developing the citizen's ability to work, because this does not happen for approx. 70% by them. The conclusion must be that it is the law that is wrong with it and that it must be changed. It should do so for many other reasons. Seriously ill people need financial security if they are to have a surplus to recover, but so they do not get that on the basis of resources and flexible jobs of a few minutes or hours per week, to name one of the major problems. All this and much more, we will have the opportunity to discuss up to the evaluation of the law in the autumn. Right now, we should be gathering together to put an end to the fact that the municipalities can mistreat the citizens. I do not hesitate to use the word 'in the way that we have seen countless examples of. We have, that is. The Danish People's Party, the Alternative and Enhedslisten, in fact a bid for this, and the following proposals for adoption by the three parties that I will now read out: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the legislation on early retirement and flexible jobs is used to force seriously ill people into work tests, resource cycles and flexible jobs of a few minutes/hours, and that this often happens despite medical warnings that it is likely to worsen the state of the citizen. The Danish Parliament notes that the Ankestyrelsen generally approves local authorities' practice in this area, but also that, in the view of the Danish Agency of Appeals, the municipalities are too lenient to grant early retirement because they do not adequately meet the legal requirements for proof that the citizen cannot develop his or her ability to work. The Danish Parliament considers this to be an unsustainable practice and therefore requires the government to present proposals for amending the law immediately at the beginning of the autumn session 2017, so that early retirement can be granted if the ability to work is less than 10 hours, and that therefore, resources and mini-flex jobs are only to be considered as offers which the citizen can choose instead of early retirement. V 85). Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421101906	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we start with the real rapporteur's line. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421101915	Thank you. What has the early retirement and flexible job reform meant for society and the individual? This is a very good question, and it is also a very important issue, because it is always important to look at some of the measures we take at times, to see if things are going in the right direction and whether the changes we want are actually happening. I believe that the best thing for society and for the individual is that there are fewer sick people and fewer who need early retirement and more who are in work. I myself have been on the labour market for a number of years before I came in here, and I know what it means to be part of a working community, to have colleagues and to feel that you are being respected and making a difference. It means a lot to the individual. Before this reform, more and more people were granted early retirement, and especially young people with mental disorders were severely affected. More and more people did not become part of the working community that I myself have been proud of and think is important to all people. The parties in the conciliation circle would not accept this development, which is why we did this reform, which should give these people an extra chance and, with the right measures, targeted the individual's needs and development opportunities, bring them closer to the labour market by working with the individual. Did it work? Yeah, it's actually going in the right direction. Fewer people take early retirement and the biggest fall is seen among young people. More people come into flex jobs and resource processes, and fewer flex jobs become unemployed. Although we cannot measure the impact of the resource cycles quite yet, there is a picture that more of them are going into training and flexible jobs, and it is therefore people who would have ended up in early retirement if we had not made these changes. I don't think anyone in here can mind that development. But there are also some or perhaps many but there are also many things that do not work. We all know stories in the media about sick people being chased around in meaningless job clearance and people who don't even understand what's happening. And it really makes me very sad every time I see it, and it's by no means good enough. We will not put up with that, and we shall not put up with it. For let us be quite clear about what the letter of orientation says. I got last night, sir. Finn Sørensen to admit that what it says is also what it says in the law. Mr. Finn Sørensen yesterday says that an internship must be meaningful and have a development perspective. Also, resource development must not be unduly delayed; citizens must be involved, as it is they who must be in the focus and those who are involved. And a process of resources must never worsen the health of the citizen. If it is pointless to develop the ability to work and it is clear that you have to have an early retirement pension, then of course you have to have it. I think that's clear. Unfortunately, that is not what we see in all municipalities, which is why we in the conciliation circle have had a great many meetings and taken it seriously, but we have also taken steps to improve the situation of these people. We have sent out a letter of briefing which clearly describes the law, as Mr. Finn Sørensen says, and as clear as bell tells you how to deal with the law. We have increased citizens' legal certainty and have tried with pools to create good attempts to promote a good flow of resources. Is that okay? I hope so, but it's not safe, and if it isn't, we'll just have to change it. That is why the Social Democrats are looking at the reform in the seams, and that is why we are also ready to evaluate it in 2017. So, as a brief rounding-off, yes, we are on the way, but there are still massive problems that we must not put up with and which we must address in the course of the evaluation. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left, the Socialist People's Party and the Conservatives, I will read out the following: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that the intention behind the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs is right. As much as possible, they have to work and support themselves, and as little as possible they have to end up with early retirement. development shows that the reform is on the right track. More are now closer to or part of the labour market. The reform is facing some challenges, as there are still too many examples of resource processes where the citizen cannot see the meaning and objective of the effort. The conciliation group behind the reform has recently agreed on a package of initiatives designed to strengthen the flow of resources, provide a clearer framework for who should have resource cycles, flexible jobs and early retirement and create greater security. The Minister has stressed in a letter to the mayors of the country that the progress of resources must never worsen the health of the citizen. the reform will be evaluated in 2017, which will be the starting point for discussing adjustments in the area of reform. The Folketing urges the government to continue to focus on the municipalities' work on the reform. • V 86).
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102431	Thank you. Like the second proposal for adoption, it is part of the further consideration in this debate. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102440	Thank you to the rapporteur. The fact that the letter of orientation simply says what the law says in advance was not something to force me to admit. That is something I said myself, emphasising that the letter of orientation does not help a nudge, because it also describes the legal requirements for proof that the ability to work cannot be developed, and that is the real problem in this draft law. I understand from the rapporteur, and I would like to acknowledge that the rapporteur recognises this, and there the debate has moved that there are a number of problems with the way this works, and I have also understood from the rapporteur, and not least from the rapporteur's party chairman, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, that bed practice is not something we should offer our citizens. That's what she said in Parliament's opening debate. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: how will the rapporteur ensure that municipalities do not send citizens into bed practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102540	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102542	I would also like to make it quite clear that no, not everything is working as it should out there. Yesterday I also did that, that I looked into the cameras and looked at the municipalities out there strictly if they listened to us and said: Now you are going to correct, because this is not going to work. I would like to repeat that. What is happening out there is far from good. There are some who are starting to do well, but there are still some who are doing it very, very bad. That is also what my President, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has said, and I myself have said many times, and that is why we are going in and taking responsibility now, also because we were involved in doing it ourselves, and go in and recognise the problems that exist and see if we can correct the things that we have been trying to do with the Minister on a regular basis, as well as in the forthcoming evaluation. Then I also have to say that it is clear that when it says in the letter of orientation that an internship must be meaningful and have a development perspective, it goes without saying that it is not to lie in a bed. How can it develop you? At the same time, it says that a process of resources must never worsen the health of the citizen, and that is also what we mean by it. I think so too, sir. Finn Sørensen can find out. So I think it's clear what we want. Our task then is simply to get the municipalities to correct, and that is what we have already started to take seriously, and we will be taking this even more seriously in relation to the evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102700	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102703	Thank you, and we agree on that. My question is: how will the rapporteur ensure this? The Ankestyrelsen and the courts obviously have a completely different view of the law than that expressed by the rapporteur. In most cases, the Ankestyrelsen and the courts approve the practice of the municipalities, including the many examples in which we stand and say: Ahah, that was not what was meant to be. So my question is: how does the rapporteur want us to just take it with the bed sprays to ensure that the municipalities do not continue to send citizens into bed practice? Because it's obviously legal to do so. And then, in my conclusion, there is only one thing to do, and that is to change the law, so that is my last question: will the rapporteur work to change the law so that the municipalities cannot send the citizens into bed practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102751	Thank you. Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102753	That was quite a lot of questions for the short time I have to answer them. We've already tried to take this very seriously. We have given someone, as the Minister also read out, extra legal certainty. That is to say, if you are sent out into something you do not think is good for your health, you can take it back to the health profession, and we have also clearly described it to the municipalities: this is what we meant by the law, that is how it should be, and now look at this letter, because it is quite clear. Then it is clear that when we go into this evaluation and if there is something that turns out to be completely crazy, and it turns out that the law needs to be changed because there are others who can't find out, then we have to do it. That is actually what I hear the Minister say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102832	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102835	Thank you, President. Then the question is whether it was perhaps the Ankestyrelsen who should be sent a letter to how they should interpret the law, and not the municipalities. You can then speculate about that. But what I would like to hear from the rapporteur is whether it is fair, if there is one who is ill, who has been with a specialist and received statements, and where it has been found that the person concerned has a working capacity equivalent to 5-10 hours' work and is therefore sent out into resource sequences, that the municipality then says: it is not good enough that you get back on cash aid, then you can go there for a while, and then we send you out into resource sequences anyway, because we do not believe in the specialist? Is that fair? Is it not the case that when the municipalities send people to the leading specialists, they should also take their word for good goods and then accept it, otherwise there is no need to send them to a specialist?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102928	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421102929	Of course, in relation to the letter of orientation, the Ankestyrelsen is welcome to read it at any time, after all, it's all in this country. I'd love to, too. I don't want to stop them from doing that. In relation to the 5-10 hours, I can just say that I have also met some people who have said that they can only work during those 10 hours in flex jobs and that it has actually moved them forward. In fact, it has been the case that people who in the past would not be able to get a flex job because they could not work there at least 12 hours, which was the barrier or the limit to it then, have today had a more meaningful life after we have made that scheme for mini-flex jobs. So in other words, if there is a potential for development in it, if you think that these people can actually evolve, then you can put them in these things. Note now, as the letter on the law also says: an internship must be meaningful and have a development perspective. It is clear that if you cannot develop and are so ill that you cannot get any further and get better by working so few hours, then you have to have an early retirement pension. That is the case, and I think that is also clear in that letter. That's what they're gonna have to assess out there. When Mr. Bent Bøgsted asks whether it is fair or not, so it is clear that these things that we have heard are not fair. And that's also why we're reacting like we're doing... some things have happened out there that's not fair.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103050	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103052	But what lies in it, I would like to say to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen, in fact, is precisely that the municipalities of 98 municipalities may interpret such a letter differently than Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen does. No one says that they interpret it exactly the same way. We can see that today. They don't interpret the law the same way, because otherwise we wouldn't have had these situations. So the question is as Mr. Finn Sørensen mentioned how the rapporteur will ensure that the municipalities interpret the letter in the way the conciliation circle intended it to be interpreted. I don't believe we've been through these cases. I believe that we will still see things coming up, even if that letter comes out. So that's the thing about ensuring that the municipalities interpret in the same way. After all, we know from many other laws that we have a great deal of difficulty in ensuring that municipalities interpret in the same way. They act differently, we can see that. But how do we ensure that they interpret in the same way?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103149	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103150	Now I am just saying quite clearly: this letter of orientation is quite clear to me. It is also a hand to the municipalities to say that this is what we want with that law, and now you municipalities need to correct. If the municipalities do not do so, they can expect us to interfere at some point. There's my very clear signal to the municipalities, and now I'm looking into the TV screen: this is about to start working. Otherwise, we will have to see what happens when we evaluate, and then we will have to see if there are any changes to be made. I hear the Minister say this too, namely that we will have to change the law. Because this isn't going to work anymore. These people need to be treated properly. We won't put up with it. But now we have given that hand to the municipalities... now they must put on the reading glasses and look at the letter of orientation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103233	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Bøgsted Bent, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103248	Thank you, President. Surely there should be no doubt that we are all looking forward to Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Leif Lahn Jensens's words will apply in the municipalities. We look forward to Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen travels to the municipalities with a big hammer and knocks them in the head and says: Now do as I have said here from the platform. Our experience just shows that, regardless of whether it's me or not, it's me. Leif Lahn Jensen, sir. Finn Sørensen or the minister who says something, there are 98 municipalities with people sitting out there interpreting it quite differently. That is the huge problem. But I'd be happy to take the trip around with Mr. Knox. Leif Lahn Jensen and preach to the municipalities how to interpret it. I will look forward to that, because it will be an exciting trip. We probably don't have much time to be in here in the Folketing then, but it'll be an exciting trip. There is no doubt that we naturally want the initiatives that are being taken to work as well. That is not the problem at all. I think I am speaking on behalf of everyone when I say that we really want the municipalities to live up to what they have to do first and that they interpret it in the way they intended. I also agree that it is better for people to have a flex job than for them to end up on cash benefits or early retirement, but we can then see that, when they are in a process of resource testing, they still end up on cash aid again, even though they have been clarified with a potential for work which may be 5, 6.7 hours. Then they have to be tested again, and then it is dragged out, but that is not what was intended, as I have seen it. The intention was to have clarification and then to have a flex job, and then to develop the ability to work for a few more hours in flex jobs. That's how I got it. I may have misunderstood it, but it is not only in resource processes that you should develop your ability to work, you can do that in a flex job, and after a while you can have a few more hours. That's what's also in flex jobs. Of course, we also need to look at that possibility. I think it is a good thing that we can see that there is a reduction in people who go on early retirement if they just get clarification and are not hidden away, because the result is that those who really should have had clarification end up in the cash aid system where they do not belong at all. I think we agree that someone who has a working capacity of five hours does not belong in the cash assistance system. They need clarification, and then they need a flex job or an early retirement. That's the way it is. I will not prevent anyone from having a flex job if they really want to, down to 1 hour a week. They must be allowed to do so if they want to. That is not the problem at all. However, we can only see that with the years that have passed, more and more people have ended up in a process of resources, where they are actually being dragged through the system, even though they have statements from leading specialists to whom the municipalities are sending people. People are sent to a specialist to clarify what is wrong, and then when they come back with a statement from the specialist, because that was probably not good enough, they are told that they are just being sent to a new specialist. That is not good enough, and then the municipality itself interprets it in a different way. Well, that's not sir. Leif Lahn Jensen's fault, nor is it the Minister's fault that they interpret in this way. There's no one in here to blame for how they interpret it, it's not there at all, it's wrong. But we should like to feel that we have a uniform procedure, so that, whether you are in the City of Copenhagen or if you are in Thisted Municipality or in the municipality of Aabenraa or Odense, you received the same treatment by the municipalities interpreting the law in the same way. That's where we're going. So I really hope that what has been said from up here will apply, i.e. that it will work in this way. I'll look forward to it. But otherwise, when the evaluation comes, we will have to see if there is a need for further tightening up. At least we will have to keep an eye on whether further tightening is needed. As it is now and here, there is at least a group for which it does not really work, because they feel that they are being pulled through the system without getting the help they really need. And so a great congratulations to those who achieve clarification and who get a flex job or get an early retirement pension • those who are really seriously ill. But we have the group that is still seriously ill and that may not even be able to get through a clarification. That's one of the things we need to look at. However, as I said, we are following developments and seeing what happens here in the autumn evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103752	Thank you. Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, Social Democrat, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103757	Now I am a little sad that the Danish People's Party so chose not to join in this settlement, because I see the Danish People's Party as a party that chooses to take responsibility many times, and I know that Mr. Bent Bøgsted does. However, I just have to ask a question, because what you can see now is that fewer people are getting early retirement after the reform and that the largest number are seen among young people. More people come into flex jobs, more people come into resource sequences, and fewer flex jobs become unemployed. Does the rapporteur agree, sir? Bent Bøgsted, not on the basis of the figures that it has actually gone in the right direction after the reform?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103835	Well, I fully acknowledge those numbers. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay. I'm just worried about the group that's left that can't get a clarification that can't get into resource sequences and that may have been told: Well, you have a very small ability to work, but you're just being put aside a little; that clarification for flex jobs isn't the time for now; you're just going to have 2 years on resource sequences and then maybe 1 more year. That's the group I care about. It is only good for those who have been given a solution that has been clarified. That is also what I said: congratulations to them. If you can make an effort to get people away from the stupid system you have, where they go on cash benefits and are sick, and if they can get clarification for flex jobs, or they can get an early retirement, or they might somehow get retrained through an education so they can get a job, that is great. That is not the problem at all. I think we are all fully satisfied with that, but we have the group that has no working capacity and that is still hidden away in the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103943	Sir. Leif Lahn Jensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421103945	It is the case that those who come into the process of resource development are some who, before the reform, were actually so weak that they would receive an early retirement pension. Let's say we hadn't done this reform. So there was 3%. of those on resource cycles that had not been in ordinary employment. It was 12 percent. of those who had not been in flex jobs and 1% of those who had not been in flex jobs. of those who had not been in education. The Danish People's Party chose not to go along with this, which means that at least the Danish People's Party cannot take responsibility for these people having a better life. I can understand that, as sir. Bent Bøgsted says that there is a group to be dealt with, of course, and that is also what I said from the platform, but Mr Bøgsted acknowledges that. Bent Bøgsted is not that this is actually an advantage and that it has gone the right way, including for that group?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104030	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104032	Well, I understand that sir. Leif Lahn Jensen finds it a pity that the Danish People's Party was not involved in the reform, but one of the reasons why we were not in it was precisely that the reform was made in such a way that there was no clear definition of when there was an obvious case. No one in the municipalities understood when there was an obvious case where an early retirement was to be granted. There was also the problem that you could go as low as 1 hour to clarify for flex jobs, and there Dansk Folkeparti wants clear limits on how far down you should go. Whether it should be 5 or 10 hours is not the big problem, but we will not prevent it either if someone really wants to get a flex job of down to 1 or 2 hours. Of course, they must also be allowed to do so if that is their wish. These are some of the reasons why we did not go along, and that is what the conciliation circle is trying to rectify, and congratulations on that. We'll gladly accept that, that's nice. So for the future, we may have a completely different system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104127	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104136	Thank you. I stand here today as a standin for rapporteur Klaus Markussen, who could not be here. First of all, I would like to thank the Enhedslisten, who has raised the debate. After all, this is an important debate which concerns a great many people in our society. We can all agree that too many people are outside the working community. 700,000 people on public support, people who do not have the opportunity to realise their potential. It is not sustainable, either for the individual or for the Danish business community, because there is someone who has to drive growth and also create new jobs. The clear aim of the Left is that more Danes become part of the working community, and we want fewer people to be dependent on public funds. The means of achieving that goal are probably where our paths may be separated. However, if nothing else, the reform of early retirement and flexible jobs is based on the fundamental need for more people to be part of the Community. As far as possible, work and support should be carried out, access to early retirement is restricted, and action should instead be taken with an early multidisciplinary and coherent effort in a process of resource development. Several people with a small capacity to work need to be more flexible in jobs. With the reform, we are targeting employment efforts so that more people who are at risk of ending up in passive support have a link with the labour market and can support themselves. The question today is, of course, one of the things that we are dealing with today. on the human consequences of the reform, and in this respect it is crucial for the Left that we do not give up people by parking them on early retirement, because then we cannot at least talk about negative human consequences. Instead, we say with the reform that everyone will have the opportunity to be part of the working community. We as a society take responsibility and help people who need it, because we need everyone, and whether you can work 37 hours a week or you can just work 5 or 7 hours a week, it is important that you are part of the working community. Before the reform came into force, approx. 14,500 persons granted early retirement. In 2016, that figure had fallen to 8,400. Is it a success? Yes, it is very much. The figure is of course not a success in itself, but I would say that it is a success for a great many people who, instead of now, are in contact with the working community and are not on passive support. And then I think it is worth noting that the biggest fall is actually among people under 40 years of age. This is simply in line with the intentions of the reform. We must also insist that young people should not start their adult life on public support. They must be helped to get in touch with the working community and thus also helped, if they have different kinds of diseases, it could be depression and anxiety, to get out of those things so that they can thus participate in the working community. It is also important that we look at, for example. the sequences of resources resulting from the reform. At national level, almost 17,000 full-time employees in 2016 received a resource cycle and thus also a holistic effort. I know that there has been a lot of criticism of the processes of resources. That is why a number of initiatives have been put forward in the conciliation circle to improve the flow of resources and thus also provide greater security for citizens. Then we must insist that we see general satisfaction, after all, with the processes of resources among the people who actually participate in them. After all, a user survey from late summer showed that there were 43 per cent. of the citizens who were satisfied with their resource cycle. For the Left, it is important to stick to the fact that resource processes are the way to jobs and education. From our preliminary experience, we can see that a company-oriented effort in combination with other offers is the best tool in our employment system to bring vulnerable citizens closer to the working community. This also applies to citizens in the process of resource development. That is why we must continue to look at whether the processes of resources can be adjusted and improved, because they must make sense to the individual citizen. Then, towards the end, I should also like to mention the flex-job scheme. In November 2016, there were about 67,000 people in flex jobs, of which nearly 20,000 worked between 1 and 10 hours a week in these so-called miniflex jobs. At the same time, we see falling unemployment among flex workers. It also seems that things are going the right way. With the reform, we are creating a more inclusive labour market in which more people with much reduced working capacity have been given the opportunity to be part of the working community. As I also said at the outset, it is a clear goal for the Left that more people become part of the working community and fewer people become dependent on public support. The government has taken decisive steps in this direction. We see that more people exchange the public support for a paycheck, and that is incredibly positive. Finally, I would like to say that we think it is wrong to exclude these people from the labour market, even if they have a limited ability to work. Instead, these mini-flex schemes should help to ensure that they are linked to the labour market. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104757	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104803	One question is: can the rapporteur mention a single party here in the Folketing or any professional person who believes that people should be excluded from the labour market? I would like to hear an example of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104818	No, I hope no parties have that plan. However, I have to say that, unfortunately, before the reform, we saw those with a small capacity to work in particular, perhaps being excluded in some way by granting early retirement, even though they might well be able to do a few hours of work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104845	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104846	Well then, the rapporteur has to deal with some examples of forcing people to take early retirement • people who would otherwise like to enter the labour market. Otherwise, there is no serious thing about it. Then it's basically just to suspect the municipalities or the citizens. So I look forward to having some examples of that. However, I would like to ask the rapporteur a very specific question. Mrs Mette Frederiksen, the party chairman of the Social Democratic Party, has said, and I quote from the opening debate in the autumn: bedridden work test, we should not offer that to our citizens. Does the rapporteur agree with Mrs Mette Frederiksen on this? And if the rapporteur agrees, what will the rapporteur do to ensure that the municipalities do not send sick citizens into bed practice?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421104934	Sir. Finn Sørensen thus gets a practical example from reality: When my own son was 18 in 2010, he received automatic early retirement because he was an autist. I have then subsequently fought a fight to get him into a flex job scheme. Today he is assigned to the spare section at LEGO and leaves 4 days a week, because he can actually handle working a few hours. So that was a concrete example. With regard to the bed-riding citizens, I have to say that I hope that this is one of the things that will be looked at during the evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105015	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Laura Lindahl, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105028	Thank you for that, and so I would also like to thank Enhedslisten for raising what I sense we all think is an important debate on an issue which we will certainly also have the opportunity to discuss again in the autumn. I love going to work. I loved that when I was a piccoline after school in eighth grade, when I worked at a barbecue bar during my summer vacation in high school, and when I got my first full-time job. Being part of a community, being met with expectations and demands, being important and helping to create value I love. And I'm not the only one to love that. The vast majority of people feel like me. They feel alive, appreciated, and important as part of a larger community. Working increases the quality of life. That is why it is very, very good that we have made a reform which has just increased people on the edge of the opportunities for the labour market to become part of the working community. We broke with the development that had taken place, where more, including young people, were left on a permanent and passive public support without the prospect of ever again having the opportunity to experience the joy of going to work. It is very good that we in here looked each other in the eye and said: these people deserve more chances; we must not give up so quickly. For it is giving up leaving young people on permanent public support. You could say we were doing these people a disservice. And now it's a little messy that disservice can obviously mean both that you do something that is well-intentioned, but that really does more harm than good, and that it can also mean that you do people a favor. But when I say "bear service," I think that something is being done that may be in the best sense on paper, but does not really help as intended. That is why I think the intention of this reform is right. After all, the intention is that more people should have the opportunity to realise their potential in a working life and become part of the community. Fortunately, the figures also show that it has fewer are on early retirement; especially among young people, the proportion has fallen mostly and I am pleased about that. Several people have got a corner in the labour market either through flex jobs or through education, and I am pleased about that too. But I recognise that we are not in the finish line. I think, in line with all the other rapporteurs here, that the examples of bedridden job testing are foolish, and I believe that we must, of course, do everything we can to ensure that more citizens find the processes meaningful and relevant to them. I also think, of course, that the people who are in the sad situation that their ability to work cannot be developed should have an early retirement pension. It's been crazy to follow Curly. Curl was a drug user for 35 years. He was granted early retirement just before he died. If I remember correctly, he didn't even get paid until he died. I've met him. He lived a hard life on Vesterbro. In 2007, he was tested HIV positive. He had infectious hepatitis, he had abscesses in his brain, he had brain damage, he had a life-threatening low blood count, he had internal bleeding, he was hospitalized several times, and he always had large fluid wounds on his body. One should not be trained to see that Krølle's ability to work could hardly be developed to a degree so that he could become self-supporting. Yet he had to fight a long and tough battle with the municipality, and that makes no sense. Nobody in here thinks that makes sense. That is why I am glad that the conciliation circle is focusing on this. I am glad that the focus is on implementation, and we must continue to do so. And even though we have now made this package of initiatives in which there are some good elements, it is clear that towards the evaluation this autumn we must focus on exactly the implementation and ensure that the cut is where it should be. That is why the Liberal Alliance also supports the proposal for adoption and we very much look forward to the evaluation in the autumn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105451	Thank you. There is a brief comment. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105455	Thank you to the rapporteur. I do not think figures in themselves say anything about whether a reform is a success: it depends on what life the people who hide behind the figures have. That's what's interesting. And we have had an incredible number of stories and examples showing that there are probably a lot of people who are not feeling very well about that reform. I am glad that the rapporteur himself mentions one of the examples, namely the example of Krølle, which I admit is probably one of the most grotesque ones, because I myself have the impression that the municipality could have given Krølle early retirement with the rules in force. But there are many other examples. There was Dorte from Svendborg, who I told about yesterday; there was the sclerosis sufferer who could only walk 100 m, but who still had to be sent out for a two-year work test and who had to fight 5 years with the municipality before he got his early retirement. All these examples are, of course, the product of legislation.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Will the rapporteur admit that there is therefore legislation and some decisions in the Ankestyrelsen and in the civil courts which approve local authorities' practice in this area? And what will the rapporteur do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105614	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105615	Thank you. I think, in fact, that Mr. Finn Sørensen is right that some municipalities comply with that legislation and that there is something wrong with it. There are then also some municipalities which do not do so and where it is quite obviously crooked that it is quite easy to take care of, because we can strike down on that. Where this is difficult is when it comes to municipalities which believe that they are complying with the law and where they still look away from these examples where it makes no sense for the citizens. I fully agree with Mr. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten in that it is difficult to prove that there is no possibility of developing a working capacity, and I understand that it can be difficult for individual public employees to do so, because when do you know that a person's ability to work can no longer be developed? I understand that is difficult, and it may well be that we need to discuss how to lay the cut, how to make a formulation that allows sufficient flexibility for the public employee to make a professional assessment himself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105726	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105728	Thank you. I am actually pleased with the way in which the rapporteur responds and also that the rapporteur does not rule out the fact that we have to look at the legislation so perceived and, if I have misunderstood, the rapporteur has to say so. The rapporteur says that we must strike down the municipalities in those quite clear cases where they do not follow what is intended in the legislation. So I am just asking: how will the rapporteur strike down the municipalities when the Ankestyrelsen gives the municipalities a favourable opinion and when the civil courts then agree with the Ankestyrelsen? Then the rapporteur and the government have no means of power against the municipalities, because then the municipalities will follow the law. What will the rapporteur do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105806	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105807	That is actually what I was trying to say, namely that we have two scenarios. We have the scenarios where the municipalities do not comply with the legislation, such as: in the Curling case. There it is quite obvious that we could strike down. And then there are exactly the other scenarios where the Ankestyrelsen and the courts say that you actually follow the law. And this is where I would like to say that, if that is the case, I think it makes sense that in the autumn we are looking at whether the legislation is as it should be, because nobody here is interested in bedridden people being sent on job tests and that deadly people should be tested in the way they are today. So if what is happening is within the framework of the legislation, I think we should look at it, and I think we should do that in the autumn when we do the evaluation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105849	Sir. Bent Bøgsted, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105851	Thank you. The rapporteur said that the municipalities that do not live up to this will be dealt with. But that is precisely what has been the problem over the last few years, and that is also why the conciliation circle has been gathered to make new initiatives to get the municipalities to follow suit and do the right thing. If it is the case that the Ankestyrelsen approves the practice of the municipalities, although it is contrary to what the conciliation circle has agreed, what will the rapporteur do about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105924	It is clear that in cases where the Ankestyrelsen approves the practice of the municipalities, it suggests that it is the legislative, so that there is a split between what was intended and what is perceived to be within the legal framework. This is something we need to look at here. Now the Minister has sent out a letter specifying the intention, and then I hope that it will have an effect, but if it does not, then we can get to grips with it in the autumn when we evaluate it all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421105958	Sir. Bent Bøgsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421110000	Should I understand that the rapporteur recognises that in this area it is not a letter that helps, but it is the law that is wrong if the Ankestyrelsen approves the practice of the municipalities? If the municipalities have worked according to the law and the Ankestyrelsen approves their practice, even if it goes against the letters sent out, then it is the law that is wrong, and then it is the law that needs to be changed. Is that what the rapporteur is saying?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421110026	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421110028	I mean, what I'm saying is that we have now clarified our intention with the law. The Minister has made it very clear to the municipalities, and we hope that this means that the intentions of the law will begin to be complied with. If that is not the case, if we are still standing here in a year and see exactly the same examples and the same number of examples, then it is clear that we have to sit together in the conciliation circle and look at what it takes and why we continue to act in a special way. And if the Ankestyrelsen even approves of that practice, then we have to deal with it in relation to the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421110101	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421110109	Thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this debate, which is very good here, namely before the early retirement and flexible job reform needs to be evaluated. The 2012-2013 reform has given rise to a great deal of debate both within and outside the Folketing. It has led to innumerable consultation and inquiries and lots of stories in the press about sick and pressured citizens, who were stuck in resource trials and sometimes bed practice, from which they really got worse. It has led to lots of demonstrations where sick Danes and all those who care about them have tried to draw attention to their problems. It has also led to the creation of a wide range of Facebook groups, as the victims of the Jobcentres, the sick say stop and the Reform does not cause the lame to walk. As the names suggest, these are sick Danes who feel immensely pressured not only by their illnesses, injuries and social challenges, but also by the system they thought would help them if they were affected by accidents. The problem is that the flows of resources have become an almost inaccessible mountain between very sick citizens and the early retirement, which is the only solution for many and which half of them will end up with anyway. The obvious problems with the reform have led to a number of minor slippages. However, this has not been enough to prevent the problems that citizens are experiencing with the processes of resources, and therefore not enough to dampen the protests against them, either from politicians or from the people. This has meant that both in the conciliation circle behind the early retirement and flex jobs reform and in the pool of rates, a further number of efforts have been made to improve the flow of resources. In the pool, in the alternative, we have been happy to add votes to a pool of approx. 40 million kr. to improve and target the resource paths so that there is a stronger focus on citizen involvement, the municipalities' processing times and a better match between citizens and businesses when establishing traineeships. The pack is trying, among other things. to solve one of the problems which citizens who have themselves been in contact with the flows of resources repeatedly highlight, namely, the excessively long processing times. However, the problems surrounding resource cycles are so complex that more needs to be done before the demonstrations stop, before all the bad stories in the media stop, and before citizens can concentrate on getting better, without so many of them having to spend their time in a process that just makes them worse. More needs to be done before resource development and clarification about early retirement becomes, once and for all, the service for our weakest citizens, which was the intention of resource development: a process in which citizens feel that they are developing and receiving support to solve their own problems, from which they quickly move on to early retirement, if they do not have sufficient working capacity to contribute to the labour market. I am still receiving requests from citizens who are grateful for the help they were given to move forward in their lives. So it must also be said that there are also examples of good resource processes and of citizens who are happy with their resource processes. I receive enquiries from citizens who are incredibly happy about the way in which they were met by their case worker and resource team and who feel that the efforts they have been through have made sense in their lives. However, this does not justify other sick and weak citizens being worn out in pointless job tests and endless resource cycles. Resource progression should only be for those who benefit from it. That is why we are pleased that the early retirement and flexible job reform should be evaluated this year, and we hope that the conciliation circle will have the heart and the courage to open the reform and adjust it in place so that we do not waste resources on the fact that the most vulnerable citizens in society have activities that are not relevant to their lives. It is not ideas for improving the reform that are lacking. In the alternative, we have been discussing for a long time ideas for improving the early retirement and flexible job reform with experts, organisations and users alike. Many sick people have demanded the change in the proposal for adoption made by the Alternative with DF and Enhedslisten today, namely that an early retirement pension should be granted if your working capacity is less than a certain number of hours per week, for example. The elimination half-life is approximately 10 hours. Then you have to be able to get your early retirement. You can then choose to go out in a mini-flex job, but that is where you have to be able to let go. I will conclude by passing on some of the ideas for improvement that come from citizens who are directly or indirectly affected by the flows of resources. Indeed, I interpret this debate as saying that the conciliation circle is actually open to making the changes that need to be made and not just to beat up the municipalities in place. I hear that Mr. Leif Lahn Jensen actually says that you are ready to tackle the massive problems that exist. I also hear Mrs Laura Lindahl being open to the fact that it may well be that it is the legislation that needs to be adjusted. Here, Danes with whom we are in contact, who have been in contact with the resource processes, have proposed a stronger social policy weighting of the visitation requirements, so that fewer end up in a resource cycle where the outcome will nevertheless be a grant of early retirement. That's one idea. Another idea for the conciliation circle is that a process of resources continues to be designed as an offer, but is made into a written contract between the citizen and the municipality with clear goals for the effort, the period and an exit strategy. Indeed, the possibilities for exiting a resource cycle must be ensured in a way that will never allow a citizen to simply end up with a new public service resulting in new investigation processes, including cash benefits, etc. I can now see that the President has risen, so I will conclude by saying that these and other improvements from the citizens have already been sent to the conciliation circle, and in the alternative we hope that the parties behind the early retirement and flexible job reform will use these and all the other available inspiration to adjust the reform in place so that we can give our most vulnerable citizens the support they need to move forward in their lives.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421110642	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. There are no brief comments. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421110654	Thank you. I think that a great many rapporteurs have been thorough around, and I agree with almost everyone, at least everyone in the conciliation circle. For the intentions of reforms of early retirement and flexible jobs are actually quite clear: we want much more people to have access to the labour market, even when you are on the verge of it, and also when you are able to manage a few hours alone. And the reforms were implemented because we thought that greater flexibility was needed; need that no one, let alone young people, was abandoned by the systems and parked on early retirement. I'm sure we've all followed the story of sir. Kristian Hegaard, my colleague in the Radical Left, who is currently an alternate member of the Danish Parliament for Mr. Martin Lidegaard, who was invited 10 years ago by his municipality to go on early retirement. Kristian Hegaard is a very young man with a disability who is now a member of the Folketing and also a member of the municipal council of Fredensborg Municipality. I do not think that has been of bad will on the part of the municipality, but it is a very good example of how we needed a different approach and some other options. And today, far fewer young people are on early retirement, and there are far more young people today who are getting targeted and hand-held efforts that are about them and about their opportunities. And that's really good. But, of course, I do not think it has been quite clear from everyone's point of view that we are in line with the reforms. We have discussed this a great many times, and it is very good that we are doing it, because it is really important. And we have, as several speakers have said, in the conciliation circle spelled out our intentions with the reforms and also adjusted on some things, because no one can really be profited by the fact that there are completely useless resources, where you are sent for 5 minutes of flex jobs and there are work tests on people who are terminally ill or no development prospects. I also agree with the previous rapporteurs that there have been quite grotesque examples. That is what we want to stop. And in the conciliation circle, I think we have made this quite clear to all municipalities, while at the same time guaranteeing the legal status of citizens with access to an additional independent assessment by a health professional. We ourselves, in the Radical Left, have also made a number of proposals for improvements, because these things have to be followed through. I am still not convinced that we should not have a minimum limit on how few hours you can get into flex jobs, but I am forever willing to discuss it. I also think it seems as if it is a fundamental problem that when you want a restraint motion job because something has happened to you, you have to take 12 months into work testing. This means, of course, that the number of restraint-flex jobs has fallen significantly, and we in the Radical Left basically see this as a problem. And there are a number of other things. As the Minister also made clear, the reforms are being evaluated this year. I think I hear from all conciliation parties that this is taken very seriously, and we in the Radical Left are doing so too. These reforms need to work better, and we hear that from the Minister. And we are going to follow it very closely in the Radical Left, just as I am actually very confident that we are a broad majority in the Folketing who are involved in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111128	Thank you to the rapporteur. A brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111137	I would like to thank the rapporteur for something that I see as a constructive contribution to the debate, also because the rapporteur himself is moving a little towards mentioning other things in the reform, for example. The problem of restraint flexible jobs, which has, of course, caused the number of flex jobs where you could stay at your own workplace, has plummeted. I'd like to sign for that. My question to the rapporteur is a continuation of such a little thinking process, which I feel the rapporteur is involved in, and I think that is actually very productive. If the rapporteur has perhaps considered applying a completely different criterion to the granting of early retirement, which means that if you cannot give the citizen an ordinary job, it must be an opportunity for the citizen to have an early retirement pension or what we propose from the alternative, Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party, that the citizen then has an opportunity to choose other solutions and not be forced on, for example. a resource cycle or a flex job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111239	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111245	Thank you. We have actually been working for a very long time on some of the proposals I just presented here, but I fully understand the rapporteur's very good and constructive approach, and I also see it as a way of taking it forward. That you could get a permanent early retirement pension if you cannot be assigned a job so that we should be able to issue public job guarantees seems to me very far-reaching and not really like the way forward, but I am quite open to seeing if there are other criteria that could be in play. At any rate, I am very inspired by some of what the Alternative's rapporteur also highlighted, namely that we have set aside funds to try to experiment with better resource processes and get some more volunteering into the whole employment effort. I think we can benefit from this too. There is no doubt that what works is when the individual citizen has ownership of what is going on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111356	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111359	Thank you. I think the rapporteur over-interpreted what I asked. It was not a job guarantee for people with reduced working capacity that I asked about, although we in the Enhedslisten would very much like to be a part of it. The question was that if the ability to work is so small that one cannot be assigned ordinary work in one occupation or another that one has the opportunity to contest, and thus cannot obtain a substitute, if one could be fortunate enough to get a job, then it should be possible to have an early retirement pension. After all, it is not today with the reform that was made, and that is what I was asking, because it could perhaps also be a possible change in legislation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111445	Yeah, okay. I would very much like to discuss the elements of how we proceed. What I think several rapporteurs have also made clear is that if one is not in a situation where one's ability to work has any prospect of improvement, and if one has a disease that means that there is no prospect of moving forward, yes, one must be able to qualify for an early retirement pension. On the other hand, I think that, basically, it is possible to have a link with the labour market, even for fewer hours, and then, of course, to be supplemented by a substitute, so to speak, it is not an opportunity to park on early retirement. It is perhaps right there between the nuances that it is important to get into place what kind of approach we have. I think it is true that more people who do not really have a development perspective should have granted an early retirement pension, and we would also like to take part in that, and I think everyone has opened up to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111551	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Karsten Hønge, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111600	It is good that Enhedslisten keeps the debate warm on how we treat people on the edge of the labour market. Many of us would like to contribute to this and have been doing so for several years in debates here in Parliament, in consultation, in questions to ministers, in demonstrations, etc. And let me therefore start by stating that the SF stands entirely by the progressive intentions of the reform. We must look at what people can do and not, above all, at what they cannot do. Unfortunately, however, the way to implement the reform is too often covered with thorns and unnecessarily steeped and intricate. There have been examples of completely grotesque processes in which sick citizens who already have enough to struggle with are sent out into work tests or resource processes that do not bring them closer to the labour market, on the contrary. There have been plenty of examples of unworthy treatment where desperate citizens have fought to be heard and respected by the municipality. The establishment of the interdisciplinary rehabilitation teams is well thought out, and a multidisciplinary team is needed to look at the whole human being and the whole human being's overall life situation. Unfortunately, however, we also have to say that we have seen a number of examples of rehabilitation teams which, instead of acting almost as Spanish Inquisition courts, have tortured and tortured the accused. And despite several requests from the Minister over the last few years, some municipalities continue to treat citizens unnecessarily zealously in search of the last theoretical ability to work. We just have to say that, apparently, against some municipalities, even the gods are fighting in vain. That is why we in the SF welcome the interim evaluation and review of the reform recently agreed by the conciliation circle. Here we strengthened the legal position of the citizens and placed some stakes in relation to the treatment of the municipalities. Through the rate pool, but also through this conciliation circle, SF has helped to find millions for better resources, including how we can do something serious about the far too long processing times. SF would have liked to see several changes, including: a minimum number of people we propose 7 hours before you can be assigned a flex job. We also imagine that it should be easier to get a restraint flexible job. We could not and it is in a conciliation circle that everything was fulfilled, but the conciliation circle has taken a step in the right direction, and the SF looks forward to the thorough evaluation later this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111920	Thank you. Sir. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421111924	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. I would also like, in this case, to acknowledge that the rapporteur is starting to start because I think we need to come up with concrete proposals in this discussion on how to amend the law. So I think it's excellent. I would like to ask the rapporteur: in general terms, how do we ensure that the municipalities cannot send people out in these processes, from which we all agree to distance ourselves? I don't have to repeat everything. What is it practical for some legislative changes that could be implemented and ensure that municipalities do not have that opportunity? Because we do have the problem that in many, many cases, the Ankestyrelsen approves the practice of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112013	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112016	It is quite obvious that if it turns out that the municipalities are not correcting, then it is a statutory audit that has to be carried out by all the conciliation parties. It would also be completely idiotic to do otherwise. In other words, if you have a law where we agree on the intentions, but where it turns out that the municipalities cannot figure out how to put them into practice and cannot find out what they are getting from a majority in the Parliament and after several requests from the Minister, then it is a revision of the law that needs to be made. But we just don't have the need that we have experienced Enhedslisten has, namely that the Enhedslisten thought, the day after the law was passed, that the law should be reviewed. After all, when a reform is introduced, there is a phase-in period. What we experienced, for example, was also an unreasonable slowing down in the granting of early retirement pensions. Then what happens a few years later? Yeah, it's gonna rise again. What we are doing here, too, is trying to align the law with the intentions we have. I know that Enhedslisten is constantly pointing out that there have been some completely hopeless decisions in the Ankestyrelsen, but at the same time it is amazing that all sorts of other municipalities can treat the citizens properly. So it is not so clear, that because the Ankestyrelsen has made some decisions, all municipalities do so in a certain unfortunate way. We have examples of several municipalities that actually make it okay under the same legislation. So we do not need to resort immediately to the legislative revision tool, but to do what the conciliation circle has done, namely to try to correct it through a revision. But if it can't be any different, I can hear that all the conciliation parties agree that we are, of course, correcting the law, but let's try the tools we have.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112136	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112139	Thank you. I'm gonna have to straighten out the storywriting. The Enhedslisten did not propose any revision of the law immediately after its adoption. We voted against it on the basis of a large number of criticisms which we not only stood with but which came from a large number of interest groups and trade unions. I do not need to list everything now. I think the rapporteur remembers it. And there are none of the criticisms that unfortunately I would say have been successful in the practice we have seen in the municipalities. But now we are in a situation, and this is a new situation, I would like to say to the rapporteur, and I am glad that we are in the situation where one conciliation party after another is going to take up the floor. I have heard that no legislative changes are promised and now we recognise what we have not been able to get any conciliation parties to recognise so far, namely that if the Ankestyrelsen does not correct and we get rid of all the nasty examples of how citizens are going to go about, then we need to change the law. I am glad that the rapporteur is saying thank you for that today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112238	I really think that Mr. Knox... Finn Sørensen just hears, sir. Finn Sørensen wants to hear. For example, I have. never heard any parties say that no matter how one interprets this in the Ankestyrelsen, one will stubbornly, zealously stick to the original law. In recent years, I have heard all the rapporteurs of all the parties say: if it really is the case that it continues against what is our intention, then of course we will change the law. But let us now try to see for now whether we cannot make it fit in by organizing and revising it. I know that the Enhedslisten voted against the law at the time, because apparently it was all much better in the old days, but it wasn't. It's like the old law was so amazing. No, it wasn't. There were a lot of other problems with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112317	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party to a brief remark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112329	Thank you. I just had a question about Mr. Karsten Høng's comment that there are certain municipalities against which the gods fight in vain. There I would like to know what kind of municipalities they are and whether they are among other things. Denmark's largest municipality, the City of Copenhagen, against which the gods fight in vain. Now I have fought for many years against the City of Copenhagen, and I do not regard myself or the rest of the bourgeois camp as being in that category. However, one can at least see that there are enormously long waiting times, sometimes years, to settle some of the issues in Copenhagen. What does Mr. Karsten Hønge on the situation in the country's largest social administration and the country's largest municipality?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112408	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112411	I do not think I have any reason to hang out a few municipalities in particular, but I will only say that I myself have chosen to take part as a sidekick for citizens who have been caught up in some municipalities because they felt that they were in such a mess that it might help to have a member of parliament sitting next to them at the meetings with the rehabilitation team. These are some municipalities where I would say that I find it incomprehensible that one is not able to understand more about how a citizen who is in every possible way squeezed and in every possible way struggles with challenges, physically and mentally, so also has to have a municipality as an opponent. So I have experienced municipalities, also in a practical and practical way, sitting before them and thinking: it was just as good that one can choose to treat one of its own citizens so badly. But Mr. Rasmus Jarlov is right about the second part of this: there are some municipalities that have an extremely long processing period, and one of the things that we have found money for both in the rate pool, but also in the conciliation circle, is precisely to examine the good resource processes. One of the things we're looking at there is exactly the processing time. What can it mean to introduce more coordinating case managers to enable you to get through the bunkers more quickly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112520	Thank you. Sir. Rasmus Jarlov.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112524	When I ask, it is because there is such a little unspecific accusation hanging in the air, and there may be some municipalities that might feel affected, which might not feel affected. That's why I'm asking you with Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge's great knowledge of special matters, what it is for some municipalities that make it so bad that it is even the gods that fight against them in vain.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112544	Sir. Karsten Hønge.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112545	If that would reassure Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, this was not an expression of the colour of each municipality. I have participated both in the municipalities led by the Left and Social Democrats and have not immediately been able to tell the difference. I believe that this is about the fact that in some municipalities you have an administrative culture that is not in order, that, for example, when Mr. Rasmus Jarlov mentions the City of Copenhagen, may have some extremely long processing times. There is an example of where it is not only a question of changing the law, but that the conciliation circle is finding the money to spread the good flows of resources, because it can obviously be done in some places to make it work. Therefore, I am happy to see a few million in use in the municipalities, so that we can spread the good resource processes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112632	Thank you. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, but this time as rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421112642	Thank you for this question, which is of course about what the Minister can tell us about the human and social consequences of the reform that was carried out in 2013. And, of course, I cannot answer that because I am not a minister, but I would like to say a little about how Conservatives view the reform that was made in 2013. We are pleased with the reform of the early retirement and flexible work systems, and that is because it was a reform aimed at preventing too many people from being parked on early retirement in a situation where there is no prospect of them coming back and getting a job. Early retirement is such a more or less permanent state, and we have then introduced some other benefits or categories where you are not as permanently parked. We think that has been a real aim. We can see that some people have come into work, although it has to be said that the figures are quite small. In general, however, we believe that this has been a good reform. It is not because we generally believe that we have a fantastic employment system in Denmark, not at all. It's too complicated, there's too many different categories, so there's almost no one who can figure it all out. There are too many rules and, in our opinion, many people are also asked to carry out superfluous activities, in other words, a form of activation that does not bring them closer to the labour market. In our view, there is also the possibility of cutting back on this, because too many resources are simply spent on activities that have no effect. At least you can't measure any effect of them. The need for control and rules for what the unemployed are doing arises when the benefits are so high that the motivation to take a low-paid job is not there, or when at least we cannot be sure that the motivation is large enough. We have then felt politically that there must be some demands on the unemployed, and this then permeates the whole system. Of course, you could also go in a different direction and reduce the benefits, because then we would not have that problem at all. But I do not think anyone wants us to have such low benefits that we can completely avoid the situation where there is little doubt as to whether the motivation to take a low-paid job is great enough. Because then we would have to put the benefits down so far that I think we would come under what we in the Danish Parliament would think was reasonable. But that is where the problem sort of arises and it is difficult to solve. We need to have some individual assessments of the unemployed around to see how much they can work and then try to place them on some benefits and some courses that are considered suitable for them. There will then be a great many individual examples, and it has also been pointed out several times here today, that there are very many examples of people who at least feel that they have been set to do a whole lot of things and that some demands are being made on them that they cannot pay. There are people with diseases who feel that it is completely hopeless that they will never recover and that they will never return to the labour market. And they feel that they really just wanted to have an early retirement, so there were no more demands for them. It's always hard to take a stand on these individual cases, because we have this asymmetry, that we really only know people's own interpretation, while we don't know the caseworker's interpretation. And then I don't get to say anything else, I see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113036	Sir. Finn Sørensen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113041	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for her speech. The rapporteur said 'and I am not surprised; it is frank talk that the rapporteur thinks this is a good reform. Does the rapporteur agree or disagree with the other rapporteurs, who have certainly not promised amendments to the law? I am not going to claim that, but who has at least said that if these letters of orientation, which are intended, as has been said, to remove all the boring examples we have in the course of procedures in which citizens are forced out, do not work, then we are prepared to make some legislative changes to ensure that this does not happen? So far, all the conciliation parties have said so. Is the rapporteur in favour, or does the rapporteur think that the reform is so good that there is no reason to make such changes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113139	We're in on that galley.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113147	Then I will just have to sign for the clear answer, because it was, like the rapporteur's speech, or I did not listen properly. But now I have a commitment, at least to be open to it. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113159	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113202	You're welcome. I didn't make my whole speech, so apparently I've made the time bad. But, of course, we need to adjust the legislation and the directives that are being sent out so that things work. I think it is difficult to solve completely so that we do not have any situations where there are some people who feel that higher demands are being made on them than they themselves think should be made. But we must constantly try to improve the system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113225	Thank you, sir. Rasmus Jarlov. There are no more brief comments. Then we go to the great minister. The Minister for Employment now has the opportunity to comment on the question debate. Here you go, sir. Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113239	Thank you for that, President. I do not know what to put in the term the great minister. I assume that this is not about the Minister's weight, as it would be an unnecessary hurtful remark, but we must not discuss it with the President, so I will refrain from doing so. Minister means waiter). That is correct and, of course, you have to put up with anything. So is the Minister, otherwise he could not be. But now to the factual part of this debate. First of all, let me thank the Enhedslisten for the fact that we have had one today, I think, both nuanced but also very important debate on a very large reform, which has been in force for several years now. Virtually all the rapporteurs make both important, but also, I think, fundamental remarks about the political evaluation that is here today of the legislation. I note with great pleasure that a large number of the parties, not to say all the parties behind the reform, both recognise and support the intention of the policy adopted. They highlight the very many good intentions behind the legislation, which are also based on the fact that it is because we do not want to give up people. That is exactly what is the whole discussion here today. We will not just give up people on passive support. It is both LA's rapporteur, the rapporteur of the Left and the Socialist rapporteur who has mentioned it just to mention some. I think that is an important conclusion to take along. Then the debate has revolved a great deal around some of the parties that are not involved in this reform. I actually owe it to you to say that both Mr. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative, but for that matter Mr. Bent Bøgsted in my world had a more atoning approach to giving constructive criticism of the government than Enhedslisten. It is not, of course, to say that the Enhedslisten is not constructive, it is usually Enhedslisten, but I think that Mr. Finn Sørensen again comes up in a fairly dramatic tone of voice, and I don't think that's fair. I took note of the fact that Mr. Finn Sørensen said in his rapporteur's speech that there was no will to deal with the legislation, and that is simply not right. Yesterday we had a long, long debate on the same subject, in which all parties, at least all the conciliation parties, noted that we are now making an evaluation. And we are not doing an evaluation just for the sake of evaluation; we are doing it to take seriously the criticisms that have been made of the legislation. I therefore believe that the Enhedslisten should acknowledge this today. I will not interfere, Enhedslisten must do what they want, but in my world there are still potential child diseases that we have to deal with. There are things that can be improved, and I do not want to hide the fact that this is going to be a priority for me as Minister for Employment. So you can be quite confident about that, and you can also be confident that, even if you are not part of the conciliation circle, you will also have the opportunity to become part of the political discussion we need to have. I also think that Finn Sørensen forgets to relate to the answer given to Finn Sørensen concerning bed practice. The question of bed practice was put to me as Minister for Employment on 11 January and I reply very clearly to Finn Sørensen on 19 January. Now I choose to read out my answer, because I think the debate deserves this: Bed practice is not a special offer that can be included as part of a process of resource development, and I would like to start by stating that, in a process of resource development, in practice should never be established that does not develop people, but instead is seen as degrading and meaningless. This applies, for example, if you establish a course where there is no real and evolving content, but only an opportunity to rest in a bed is provided. ▪ What does that mean? Indeed, anyone who has been very nuanced in this debate on the issue of being allowed to rest at his place of work is the rapporteur of the Left, Anni Matthiesen. I myself have had the opportunity to visit LEGO in Billund. I myself have had the opportunity to visit other companies where people in flex jobs can actually have a desire to rest during a working day. That is all we need in this debate, because it is going to be about whether people are forced to lie in bed for a whole day at work. I do not think that is fair for this debate. There are very, very many people who actually benefit from it and gain a different life, because they now have a link with the labour market ■ best illustrated by the example that the rapporteur of the Left, Anni Matthiesen, gave here today from the platform. So, what are all the things we're talking about today going to lead to? Yes, that must lead to us now taking on the important task of evaluating the legislation, looking at it and also looking at the decisions taken by the Ankestyrelsen. And that is the last thing I want to say about. It is not for me today to go through all the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen, but they have been discussed a great deal in the Parliamentary Chamber here today, and I have decided, in order to ensure the best possible openness and also the best possible understanding of the decisions that have been made, to conclude this debate, that I am making a collecting note of what the Ankestyrelsen has actually taken of decisions. I will not be discussing specific cases from the Parliament's platform. I do not have the opportunity to do so, I do not have the papers, nor do I have it as a minister. But I think that, in order for us to have a better and more informative debate, we need to have a note to clarify it. I can't rule out the possibility that Mr. Finn Sørensen may be right about some of those points, but it is also not the case that you can say that, as Mr. Finn Sørensen is trying to conclude, is right, but we must then return to that in a different form. But now I would just like to mention that I think we deserve to have a more in-depth discussion of the issue of the Ankestyrelsen and what decisions they have taken and also under what conditions it has happened. However, thank you once again for a good and constructive debate, which I very much appreciate. For this theme is an important theme for those citizens who are having a hard time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113920	The Minister will have another opportunity, because there is a brief comment from Mr. Finn Sørensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421113926	Thank you. Now I have asked for the floor for a little, so I will explain it, but I think the Minister owes me and the whole debate to criticise me on a proper basis. I have to say that I have not said at any time today that the other parties, the conciliation parties, did not want to deal with amendments to the legislation. What I said in my rapporteur's speech was that, unfortunately, there are specific proposals from the conciliation parties and the government about what needs to be done about it, i.e. the problems I outlined, in addition to sending out these guidelines. After all, the question of bed practice was raised because the chairman of the Social Democratic Party, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, has spoken out on the basis of some really nasty examples that have been brought forward in the media, and which I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, about citizens who only had 10 minutes of working capacity but who, because they had to carry out a work test, were told to take the bed to work. That was the reason for it. So I would just like the Minister to confirm that that is what I said in my rapporteur's speech and that, like Mrs Mette Frederiksen, I would like a mechanism to be put in place so that the municipalities cannot force the citizen into that situation. So would the Minister like to confirm that this is the basis on which I have discussed it and not what the Minister was trying to outline in his reply?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114051	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114054	It would be very far from me to have to lay Mr. Finn Sørensen's wrong words in his mouth, and if I may have heard wrong, then I have to revise it. Now I sat down and noted, but I must then, when the speech has been recorded in the Parliamentary Times, see if Mr. Finn Sørensen is absolutely right in those remarks. But that does not change what I thought was important to say. We had a long debate yesterday, and Parliament's parties say that we need to look at this constructively, and that was in relation to the issue of dementia, but it was of course about exactly the same theme. It is quite true that no three concrete proposals have been put forward by me today for amending the law, but I also think it would be strange for an evaluation to be carried out. As to whether there is anything new, I have to say: yes, it is quite new that there will be a good and objective evaluation, and then it is also gratifying that a cooperative Parliament is actually proposing to look at it without prejudice, and I would like to acknowledge that, Mr President. Finn Sørensen and Enhedslisten to see also in the debate and say: Yes, we look forward to it. In relation to what Mrs Mette Frederiksen has said during the opening debate by the Danish Parliament, I can simply say that I have replied to Mr Mette Frederiksen's question. Finn Sørensen several times in writing. What I also think is important to say in this connection about bed practice is what the reply of 19 January says: "A resource sequence is an individually organised effort based on the situation and needs of the individual citizen, and where the necessary care can - and must - be taken. These considerations must ensure that citizens are given the opportunity, in the most considerate way, to develop their ability to work and thus to move closer to the labour market. The possibility of resting in connection with e.g. an internship can be a relevant care. But that is something other than putting a bed behind a trailer or a car, and that has never been what there has been a political desire for. That is also what I have said to the municipalities of the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114308	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister. But that is where the Minister did not answer my question, and the Minister can do so now. Because what I was asking was whether it would be necessary to prevent the municipalities from sending the citizen into such a situation to change the law. And let me use the Minister's picture here to tell the citizen that now you can buckle up your bed on a trailer and drag it there, and then you can rest there sometimes when you have worked for 10 minutes. Because the Ankestyrelsen apparently approves such examples, and the Minister can then answer if he agrees. So if you want to prevent the municipalities from telling the citizen that you can just throw your bed up on the trailer and then bring it into work, do you have to make a change of law? Can I have an answer to the question I have asked in writing now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114401	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114404	You can always get answers. It is not certain that these are the right answers, but, as I have also said, I am not going to discuss all the decisions or decisions taken by the Ankestyrelsen today on the basis of this debate. I've just promised you that, sir. Finn Sørensen says there's an in-depth note about this. But I have also said that we are going to evaluate the whole of the legislation. For me, this is crucial, and that is also why we have taken the deep political debate over the last few months. It must be stressed to the municipalities how resources should be created and the state of the citizens should not be made worse. If we need to be more keen on this, then I have seen that there is an open invitation from the conciliation parties to discuss it, and if there is a need to make changes to the existing legislation, it does not meet with opposition from me, and then I am willing to discuss it. But I think it is most right that we should take a thorough evaluation and then we should look at how we can ensure that those in that situation are, of course, dealt with in the way that a political majority has wanted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114517	There is also a brief comment from Mr. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114521	Thank you. After all, we are in the middle of a long, long process of this early retirement and flexible job reform, where we have had endless consultations, meetings, demonstrations, etc. etc. I have seen the Minister for Employment who was there before the current Minister for Employment, being very proud of the processes of resources and not seeing any problems in it. That was actually the starting point. We have been discussing this for 11⁄2 years in consultation, and more and more concessions have been made that this is not as good as it should be. And I really think that I am experiencing this, and that is what I would like to confirm not only some of the conciliation parties say that we need to address the massive problems, but also the Minister, in fact, to say that if it is about that law not being good enough, then it is not just the municipalities that we have to push or hit in the head, then the minister is also ready to change the law in real terms. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114607	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114610	A long life in politics has taught me that you cannot just outsource guilt and say that it is probably because the municipalities do not understand the law. It may also be because the legislation is not clear enough or because there are things that need to be clarified. And I am quite open to doing that, because I am also sorry that a really good reform, which means a great deal to many people, namely that we do not give up people, is going to be about whether sick people must experience being pressured into bed practice. It's not okay, and of course we have to discuss that too. I think it is very clear what it says today and what the rules are like. We have also made that clear. We have sent out additional information to the municipalities. But that does not change the fact that we need to evaluate it. It goes without saying, and it would be quite strange if I were to say as a minister: I do not want to take a critical view of the legislation in any evaluation. That's exactly why it's being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114712	Then we thank the Minister. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Finn Sørensen has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421114729	Thank you. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity that exists to comment on the debate that has taken place and which, in my opinion, and I shall return to it on many points, has been exciting from the point of view of Enhedslisten, more exciting than many of the other debates we have had on it. But first of all, I would like to comment on a turn that is constantly coming from the conciliation parties: we must not park citizens on early retirement. What's in it? Yes, there are, after all, two hints which I think are very unfortunate and which should be discussed. One is that it is quite awful to get an early retirement, because then you are not part of the community. There is also a definition that the community is only the working community and not all sorts of other communities that people form part of, that is, that it is quite awful to have an early retirement pension. That is what lies in the fact that we must avoid it at all costs. Now there is actually research that shows that seriously ill people can get better off getting an early retirement pension. And the same research shows that the fact that you get an early retirement does not mean that you are excluded by the community; on the contrary, it may mean that you have a little more profit to have a life where you also have a life with other people in a community. I think that's important. Then there is also the suggestion that the municipalities in general have just given out early retirement with a round hand, even almost forced the citizens to have an early retirement pension. But I still believe that the fact that citizens have been forced to take early retirement against their will will will be difficult to get examples of. Then perhaps there can be some truth in that discussion, because it cannot be ruled out that in some municipalities the possibility of granting early retirement early retirement was the easiest, and then no offer had to be made to those citizens who might in fact, if they had a little more profit, could get somewhere else in the labour market or just get started with a more active life. This is probably a real criticism of a number of municipalities, and Enhedslisten has never disputed this. What is just interesting in relation to the offers you would then have to make to those people, for example. resource progression, rehabilitation, is that they were already there. Let's just take the reassignment... that tool was in the law in advance, and it's still gone. So what has been Enhedslisten's point has not been to criticise the idea of a process of resources; it has been a criticism of the deterioration of the conditions of some seriously ill people who had no opportunity to participate in it, as a reason why we should now give the citizens some offers and that we should not park them on early retirement etc. It has been our main point that the offers you wanted to make to citizens could have been made in any case. That is where the film broke, because this kind of offer costs money, and the conciliation parties agreed that this should result in a huge saving of nearly 2 billion a year. kr. That is the premise of this reform. And that is the driving force behind shutting the door almost completely in relation to being able to receive early retirement, and the fact that people were offered a range of resources on which they can only become poorer if it lasts for many years, and that some of them are even allowed to pay the resource cycle themselves, because if they have an invalidity pension, it is set off in the course of the resource cycle. And there are many other austerity measures in the reform. That's what our criticism was about, and it still doesn't. That is why we have a great deal of discussion ahead of us in relation to what is going to happen with that reform. Then I would like to say that there has been a positive development in this debate. For it has been the case in the past that when we have asked questions about whether it was not necessary to change the legislation in order to avoid all the boring examples we have seen, the answer has been up to today: no, it is not necessary; we do not need that, because we just need the municipalities to fulfil the intentions of the law. And that is what the problem is, that is, that the Ankestyrelsen has many times established that it does the municipalities on the whole. And that is why I am very pleased with the developments that have taken place in the debate, because now all the parties in this Parliament have said that if the municipalities do not correct or what words we should now use, if they do not stop sending the citizens into all these terrible courses, bed practice etc., then a change of law may be necessary. I think that is a step forward in the debate, and I would like to acknowledge that in the face of all the conciliation parties with which I have discussed this so intensively over the years. I am particularly pleased with the Minister's very last remark: we do not want to see sick people being pushed into bedroom practice. I am also pleased with that wording. And then I look forward to the Minister's note. I also think that is constructive, that is to say, we will have a note reviewing all the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen and here I would also like to have the civil courts, because that is the next instance if you are not satisfied with the decisions of the Ankestyrelsen so that we can have a common basis for assessing what that law actually means and what opportunities the municipalities have to push citizens into the situations that we have seen too many terrible examples of. So thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421115332	You're welcome. This, of course, opens the way for others to comment on it if they so wish. But it doesn't look like it. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. As mentioned above, the vote on the two proposals for adoption will take place on Tuesday 25 April 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421115408	Since we are dealing with two proposals at once, we have slightly increased speaking time, but otherwise the order is that we first give the floor to the Minister for the Elderly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421115444	Thank you for the floor. We need to deal with two motions for resolutions dealing with the possibility for citizens to choose a private supplier in home care and what requirements municipalities can impose on private suppliers. B 78 requires the Government to submit legislative proposals requiring municipalities to require bank guarantees from private suppliers and that suppliers have to demonstrate their financial soundness in different ways. B 79 requires the government to put forward legislative proposals to leave it up to the individual municipality whether or not to use private suppliers in the care of the elderly. In addition, the proposal also states that if the municipalities wish to continue using private suppliers, they are obliged to make a wide range of different requirements for them. This applies, among other things, to: the same requirements for bank guarantees and financial soundness included in B 78, but also specific requirements for everything from the level of staff training to the sustainability of materials use. Let me make it clear that the government wants to put an end to the bankruptcies in the care of the elderly. Concourses create insecurity for both citizens and employees, and the number of bankruptcies we have seen over recent years has been too high. I think we can all agree on that. That is why we are also carrying out work that will help us learn how to prevent bankruptcy. As part of the work, a service is carried out on the regulatory framework in the area of • i.e.: the rules on the free choice of home help under the Services Act. In addition, we carry out a small external study which is necessary to clarify the more technical aspects of the work. This applies, for example, to examining the transfer pricing of municipalities and the weighting of quality and price in the specific tenders. We continuously involve the relevant actors in the field, FOA, KL, Elderre Sagen, Danish Nursing Council, Danish Industry, KA Care and Danish Occupation. Once this work has been completed this summer, we will have a discussion with the Danish Parliament's parties on what should happen in this area. That is why I think it is far too early at this stage to adopt specific solutions, as proposed by the two motions for resolutions. I will not deny that there may be a need to make some changes to the legislation currently in force that was introduced by the government consisting of S, SF and R as well as the Enhedslisten in 2013. But in my view this should be done on a sufficiently enlightened basis. Then there are also elements in the proposals that I can say very clearly in the government that we will certainly not be in favour of. I think it is important for the elderly to have a free choice of supplier, and we must preserve that, because free elections allow citizens to influence the help that they or she get and to choose an alternative if aid is not good enough. We can also see that by 70 per cent. of the home help recipients familiar with the scheme, it is important that there is a free choice of supplier. That is why I also believe that free elections should be strengthened instead of restricted. In my view, this is a bad idea when Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative suggest that it should be up to the municipalities themselves if they want to allow citizens access to a private alternative to the municipality's own home care. It does not take much imagination to imagine that some of the municipalities then say that they are themselves the best in the world to provide home care and that therefore there is no reason to allow citizens to choose others. As far as I am concerned, it is not crucial whether it is the public or the private sector that is doing a job, but it is crucial for me that we as a citizen have several alternatives to choose from. Because we are all different, and we have different wishes and needs, and the elderly must therefore experience a diverse range and have the opportunity to choose exactly the supplier that best meets their needs. That is why we must, of course, maintain free choice. As regards the various proposals to oblige municipalities to impose different requirements on private suppliers, I would like to say that, overall, it is very sensible for the municipalities to impose requirements on suppliers, but we must be careful to start dictating these requirements from the central point of view. KL, together with business organisations, has formulated five recommendations on the prevention of bankruptcies, and the DA has prepared a note on the prevention and management of bankruptcies in the care and care sectors, pointing to a number of issues which the municipalities can write into their tender documents and contracts. The prevention of bankruptcies must include: identify how the municipalities organise their procurement and how they apply the common recommendations. If our work is going to show that there is a need to spread selected recommendations more, we must, of course, discuss how best to ensure this happens. I therefore do not reject anything at this stage. Let me finish by making something clear. Yes, we in the government want to put an end to the bankruptcies, and we are therefore in full swing with that work, so that we can take a position on the current rules on an enlightened basis. However, we should not deprive citizens of their freedom of choice, and we should not start to regulate the use of private suppliers by municipalities in detail. The government cannot therefore support the proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120053	Thank you to the Minister for the Elderly. There are some brief comments and the first is from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120059	Thank you for that, and thank you for the fact that the Minister finally says that she does not reject anything in advance. I think that is an incredibly good attitude to have and also a wise attitude in an area which is, of course, very regrettable. I think we agree on that in broad terms in the Parliamentary Chamber with bankruptcies with private providers of home help. It is therefore only the elderly who really need help that can get it granted at all today. I think everyone who knows something about the care of the elderly will agree with that, and so it is of course also deeply regrettable that, so far, more than 11 000 older citizens have been caught up in these bankruptcies. So it is good to hear that the Minister will not rule anything out. However, the Minister has already done so in the study being launched. We've discussed this several times. From the Social Democrats' point of view, we have proposed that an external independent analysis of the bankruptcy should be carried out and that we should look more closely at it, i.e. back from 2003, when we had free elections, which we introduced, not together with the Liberal Alliance, because that was not what was then called, but the Social Democrats together with the then government, the VK government, and the Danish People's Party. I would just like to ask the Minister to tell us: why is the amendment of the law from 2013 being pointed out? Can the Minister tell us what the situation is with bankruptcy in the municipalities that have used the approval model, i.e. the old one, and the tender model, in other words the new one?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120217	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120219	No, that's exactly why we want to have this smaller external investigation next door. Because we need to shed light on the more technical parts of it, among other things. examine with regard to the settlement price and the quality and price of the individual tender. We simply want to look at that, and then we have to see how it goes and what we get about it, and then it is that we are going to talk to the other parliamentary parties here at the end of the summer about what we can do to avoid these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120253	I should just like to point out that speaking time has only been extended for the Minister and for the rapporteurs, not for the brief remarks. Here you go, Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120302	Thank you for that, President. However, the Minister says that she cannot say anything about where the bankruptcies are taking place, but the Minister can then look into an answer she has given to the Danish Parliament on the basis of a study carried out by KL in October 2015, where in 30 municipalities that experienced bankruptcies, it is said that in the 19, you had the approval model, and only in the three you had the tender model. Since these are facts, I would just like to ask the Minister to refrain from constantly braiding if she does not want to rule out anything and will not conclude anything now that it should be exactly the introduction of the tender model, which therefore only accounts for the three of the 22 bankruptcies that are to blame. That is what the Minister is doing. So will the Minister not refrain from doing so in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120341	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120342	It is true that there are some of the municipalities that have concluded these agreements, which are still on both models, the tender model and the approval model, and now we are looking at what we are getting at in these studies, and from that we have to act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120404	There is a brief comment from Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120408	I would like to thank the Minister for something that the Minister did not say, because I actually think it was a relief that the Minister for once failed to use the flinch that the private sector is better and cheaper. The Minister and the government used to say that, but I noticed that it had been taken out of the speech, and I think that was very good. We also discussed the matter at the conciliation last time when we were discussing bankruptcies, and we know from investigations into this so-called free choice that it will actually be more expensive for the municipalities, without the citizens getting any more help from it. So I thought it was really nice that you had now taken out that pussy. Then I would like to come back to this issue of free elections, because the Minister keeps saying that it is important. But wouldn't the Minister like to confirm that the minister is talking about people being different and having different needs?• that citizens aren't getting anything more or getting better home care by choosing a private company? You have the right to exactly the same thing as choosing the municipal home care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120511	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120512	You have the right to the same thing, of course it is. However, I would like to say that when we have a user survey from 2015, which shows that 70%. of the home help recipients who are familiar with the free choice system think it is very important or important that there is a free choice of supplier, so you get it from the fact that people who are different can feel that they are still away, even if they need help, have some different options. And I personally think it means a lot to the individual that you still feel away that you as a human being, even when you need help, have the opportunity to have something different to choose from. I think that is very important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120554	After all, this resolution is about how we can prevent bankruptcies, and the most effective means we have at all to prevent bankruptcies is to ensure that there are no private companies that can go bankrupt. I would therefore like to ask the Minister whether it is not, what should one say, more important than the possibility for citizens to choose whether there is Home Aid A/S on the car or there is Frederiksberg Municipality, that one avoids the very unfortunate situation in which many citizens have ended up, namely that the company suddenly goes bankrupt and one does not know who is coming next day, with all the insecurity that comes with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120633	There is also no doubt that we are looking at this, of course, because we must, as far as possible, avoid these bankruptcies. Because this is an unfortunate situation, as the questioner also says. But, in the government, we are of the opinion that competition is healthy. It creates innovation and development, and it ensures diversity in the offers to citizens. That is why I think it is very important. I am in favour of this, and so are the citizens: freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120701	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120704	Thank you for that and also thank you for the review of the government's position on the proposals. I am listening to the Minister saying that what is voluntary in relation to the municipalities is whether it should be voluntary, whether there should be free elections or not. And I am also listening to the Minister saying that she thinks the municipalities will say that they are the best people to do the job themselves. And that, of course, leads me to ask what the Minister is basing that assessment on. And isn't that really a subjugation of municipal self-government?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120739	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120740	I think it is very important that we have the free choice. This is something that we think is very important. Competition is healthy because it can bring innovation and development. I think there should be that opportunity, and I am very pleased that our citizens think so too. A study from 2015 shows that 70 per cent. is pleased with the free choice, and that is why we must, of course, keep it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120810	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120811	After all, this is not an unproblematic area, and that is also why we are discussing it today. The reality is that we've had almost 40 bankruptcies since 2013 in this area. There are no other areas where you have a similar high number. I am listening to the Minister saying that it cannot be said; that the municipalities must do this; that they do not believe that they can find out for themselves; and that they would probably opt out if they had the choice themselves. But they have to figure out how to do that. Isn't that just a little bit double moral?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120842	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120843	Well, I'm not saying that the municipalities have to do that themselves. We've just started looking at and finding out what we can do to prevent these bankruptcies. That work is set in motion. I stand here and say that I will not reject any measures to avoid these bankruptcies. But let us now wait for the outcome of the work that has been started and then have a discussion here with all the parties late in the summer about what we can do. There may well be something that we should have looked at, and we will take that up at that time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120921	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421120923	Thank you, Minister. In conclusion, the Minister says that the Minister will not reject anything. But that is what the Minister is doing, because earlier in the speech and now it has also been repeated, you insist on what is called free choice, but which is, of course, an obligation on the municipalities to involve private suppliers. So would the Minister not like to acknowledge that the Minister is actually rejecting something? I would ask the Minister to take a stand on the specific proposal that has been put forward, B 79, because the principle of this proposal is that we now make it a free choice for the municipalities, whether or not they want to involve private suppliers, and if the municipalities choose to involve private suppliers, there are quite specific requirements that the municipalities must impose on private suppliers who oppose bankruptcies which ensure proper pay and working conditions. What does the Minister really have against that proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121019	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121020	I certainly have nothing against the proposal that we are looking at what has caused these bankruptcies, what has had the impact, the unhappy situation, that some citizens have been exposed to sudden bankruptcy, so that the same employee they have been used to is no longer coming. It's a sad situation, which is why we're in here looking at this bankruptcy thing. What I am saying is that I will not deny it under any circumstances. When we see what these studies are coming to, we must look at it together, and I would also like to welcome the fact that the Enhedslisten will of course take part in looking at what we can do to avoid this unfortunate situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121102	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121103	Thank you. Now we are not proposing that any studies be carried out, because there is plenty of documentation. There is a very specific proposal on how we can stem these bankruptcies and all the damage to citizens, municipalities and employees, and it is very simple. Paragraph 1: We leave it to the municipalities themselves to decide whether to involve private suppliers or not. And point 2: If you do so, the municipalities must make very specific, clear demands on those companies that will certainly counteract the number of bankruptcies and also to a large extent limit the genes that are associated with them. And there I think it is obvious that the Minister is quite specific about that proposal. Why will the Minister not support this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121153	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121155	Now we have started this investigation with the bankruptcies, and now I want to see what we get out of that investigation, and then I want to find out what we can do to prevent those bankruptcies. Because, of course, we need to do something about that problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121213	Thank you very much to the Minister for the Elderly for the answer to the questions. We shall move on to the rapporteurs. The first rapporteur is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121228	I'm gonna take the talking desk down a little bit. It was very tall, I think. But we could see the older minister. After all, it wasn't so bad. Thank you for the floor, President. With the resolutions we are debating today, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF come up with proposals on specific requirements for private suppliers in the area of home help and with a proposal to change free choice so that the citizen's right to free choice of supplier is removed. Let me start with the latter and make it clear that there is no doubt that the Social Democrats support free elections. The elderly are happy to have the opportunity to choose between several suppliers, and I would like to point out in parentheses that when it is still the case that by far the majority of the elderly choose to take advantage of the municipal home help, it is a joyful expression that we generally have a good service and some fucking employees here. We must rejoice in this, and indeed we must fight to hold on to it. However, we believe, on the part of the Social Democratic Party, that it should continue to be the citizen who has the option and that it should not be something that the municipality can deprive the individual elderly. For this reason alone, I can take some of the tension out of the rapporteur's speech and say that the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution which is being debated here today as B 79. So back to the other elements which are repeated in two motions for resolutions, B 78 and B 79. Here, a number of requirements are listed for e.g.: the financial soundness of private suppliers, guaranteeing, contingency plans, operating on equal pay and working conditions and much more. I am pleased that other parties are also concerned that there should be proper conditions for private providers of care and that we must address the large number of bankruptcies we have seen in the care of the elderly in recent years. More than 11 000 older citizens have been affected by bankruptcies, with the result that there is insecurity and uncertainty about the aid that these elderly people undoubtedly need. That is why earlier this year the Social Democratic Party gathered a majority outside the government behind the demand for a study of the many bankruptcies and subsequent negotiations between the parties of the Folketing on possible initiatives. After all, the government listened wisely when there is a majority that says something and has subsequently set in motion a study that goes across several ministries and has the various actors involved, as we also just heard the Minister explaining here on the platform. This summer we will then be called for negotiations on the action against bankruptcies, and it will be obvious that the initiatives outlined in the motions for resolutions will be included. After all, over recent years and often in response to one or more bankruptcies, many recommendations have been made by the various actors in the field to prevent future bankruptcies. But we can only state quite simply that it has not put an end to the bankruptcies which continue to come to three already this year. Nor is there any clear indication that bank guarantees and accounting checks are the key to solving the problem. I say that, among other things. on the basis of one of last year's bankruptcies, namely the company Vita Care, which operated private home care in, among others. Gladsaxe, Lejre and a number of other municipalities went bankrupt. And, as I understand it, the contract had just taken account of the question of bank guarantee, yet hundreds of citizens ended up without help, and yet the City of Gladsaxe ended up with an additional cost of 3 million. kr., bank guarantee despite. It may well be that bank guarantees are part of the solution. I actually think the proposers are right about that, and that is also one of the points that the parties in the area have pointed out, but with Vita Care ApS in the back of the head we have to say that this is not the whole solution either. So before we do more on the part of the Folketing, I think we need to get to the bottom of the issue. That is why, on the part of the Social Democrats, we put so much emphasis on the need for an analysis, an external analysis, of the causes of the bankruptcies. Because, depending on whether you ask the municipalities, the private actors or the organisations, yes, you are now getting different assessments of what is behind the bankruptcies. The government has then also limited its investigation, so that there is no external, but only the parties themselves, who come up with it. I had written that in my rapporteur's speech. I can then hear the Minister say in the chair here today in reply to me that there will still be a smaller external analysis in relation to transfer prices and price and quality in relation to supply. I just hope that the Minister here today will clarify it or do so in committee, that is to say that it also means that we will go further back than the legislative amendment in 2013. Because I have to say that when we maintain that this is where we have to cut the cut when we discuss bankruptcies, it smells to me that one is on a clear ideological errand on the part of the government, and I simply do not think that one can be familiar with this case, where it must therefore be the welfare of the elderly that concerns us. But perhaps the Minister can answer that either here today or in the course of the committee procedure. I have not concealed it in the consultations we have had on the subject, that is to say that I am concerned about the demarcation of the study, also because it is based on the analysis, the service which the government is currently undertaking, that we are going to negotiate. That is why, of course, I will also take on board those concerns when we are called for negotiations on the subject. I do not know whether it will be the Minister for the Elderly calling for negotiations or a ministerial colleague. The Minister can sort that out for us here today, if she can. Then I'm about to round off. I would just like to pick up and say that we are positive about the intentions behind the resolutions here when it comes to the many bankruptcies. However, the Social Democrats do not believe that it is a viable solution to implement the requirements mentioned here and now. The matter must be seen in a context and we must wait for the investigation that has been started. The part which concerns the abolition of the free choice of the citizen cannot be supported, as I started by saying. With those words, I can conclude that the Social Democrats do not support the two motions for resolutions, but that we are very much looking forward to both the committee procedure and, of course, the negotiations that will be taking place shortly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121840	But it is fortunate that the presentation has led to a few challenges, first from Mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121848	Thank you. Yeah, well, that's lucky. I do not think the rapporteur is giving these motions for resolutions in any case what is called B 79. For the rapporteur, it appears that free elections are now being abolished. That's not what this proposal is about, is it? The rapporteur is well aware that the proposal is that now we leave it to the municipalities to decide whether they want to involve private suppliers. This means that there is still room for municipalities to involve private suppliers. It is up to a decision of the municipal council. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur: why is it so important for us in this House to force the municipalities to involve private suppliers? Because that is what the rapporteur still thinks we should do away with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421121939	Thank you for the question. And it then shows a fundamentally different view of this with free choice. Now it's just two words put together, so it can be used for a lot. For Mr. Finn Sørensen is the important thing that municipalities can choose freely whether or not they want private suppliers. For me, it is important that citizens are free to choose between suppliers. And if you are a citizen of a municipality who has used the municipal free elections to say that they do not want private suppliers, then at the same time, as a citizen, you are deprived of the freedom of choice. So you can turn and turn what you want, but on the bottom line it says that this is a discussion about whether the citizen should have the opportunity to choose between suppliers, and that is what we in the Social Democratic Party believe they should. If you ask why, I can say that I have been back to read the minutes. I know, sir. Finn Sørensen has more years on the back than I have, but none of us sat here in Parliament when the introduction of free elections was discussed in 2002. That was among other things. in the light of the experience of the 17 municipalities with private suppliers, and then there were very clear results, where user satisfaction had increased significantly and not only for the elderly who took advantage of the free choice, which is an important point here, but indeed also for the citizens who used the municipal elections. But knowing that you have the opportunity to move somewhere else gives you greater satisfaction. We've just been able to see that. I'm not making this up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122055	After all, we on the Enhedslisten think that it would be in beautiful agreement with the municipal self-government if we left it to the municipalities to decide whether they would involve private suppliers. Because it has become apparent that involving private suppliers involves a very, very boring risk, namely the risk of bankruptcy to the public, to the municipal treasury and to the employees. And I do not think the rapporteur has argued that it is sensible to force municipalities to involve private suppliers when we look at the developments that have taken place. So I still lack an answer as to why it is so damn important that the Folketing should force the municipalities to involve the private suppliers, when we have found, with the help of the minister, that the only difference is what is on the car that comes and provides home help. Because there are no more rights to citizens because it is a private supplier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122157	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122158	Well, municipal self-government is, of course, common to value very much, and also the concern about whether our welfare crowns go to bureaucracy, paperwork, administrative trouble instead of helping and caring for the elderly, we share. This was an essential part of the background to the change we made together in 2013. Even when our predecessors discussed this here in 2002, there was a great deal of concern on the part of the Social Democrats about what it would mean by bureaucracy in the way the previous government made it. That is why I welcome the change we have made. It goes a long way towards meeting some of the concerns, sir. Finn Sørensen is leaving.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122238	Mrs. Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122240	It is a completely different question, but we will manage to do so anyway. My question is actually whether the Social Democratic Party itself has no idea what to do to prevent these bankruptcies. The rapporteur rightly said that a bank guarantee does not. That, as far as I understand it, is not the purpose of a bank guarantee either. It is primarily about the municipalities not being left with a large bill when the bankruptcy happens. But what do the Social Democrats think we should do to prevent the bankruptcies we have seen?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122309	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122310	In relation to the bank guarantee, it can be observed that despite the fact that the contract required a bank guarantee, which at least covered Vita Pleit ApS' bankruptcy and the experiences with it in Gladsaxe, a rather large bill was left in the municipality. It was as I understand it, 3 million. kr., which can be said to have given a great deal of home help lessons in the elderly. So I just think that shows that we actually need to learn more about this and also go into depth without some ideological definition of the problem, which I fear the government has put in. This is, of course, one of the things we want to pursue, both in the committee procedure on these motions for resolutions, but also in the course of the series of consultations we have had on the subject. 'Cause that's deep, deeply troubling. However, I think that many of the things that are in the Enhedslisten resolution here are good things where the alternative and SF are also included. After all, the parties themselves have had a number of the five concrete proposals which the Minister mentioned here from the platform, in which the provision of guarantees is also one of them; financial soundness is another; and there are also some bids in relation to what should be for an ongoing process between the municipality and the private supplier. I think that may be some of the things that are limping and that have not been so much up in the debate. How is it, then, that one can be able to continuously follow up not only whether the economy is connected with a private supplier, but also what it is actually for a quality that is being delivered? We all hear horror stories about it and we can see it when KORA does analyses and research: that it is not really on equal terms when there is competition because in the private companies you see far more unskilled people, although it may have been explicit in the contract that it is not what you want, and much less experience of the employees etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122448	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122450	The rapporteur's number of things could also be added to a significantly lower working environment. After all, we also have evidence that when private home care companies deliver, the working environment is significantly lower. However, my question was whether the Social Democratic Party is working on some proposals. Because this is perhaps such a rather passive approach, one can say that one is waiting for the government to come forward with an investigation. Are we not working on any proposals and any ideas on what we should do to prevent this major problem? When the Social Democratic Party has decided to maintain that there must be private suppliers of our welfare services, then the risk of bankruptcy is automatically present. So what are you gonna do? What proposals does the Social Democratic Party make when it comes to negotiating?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122533	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122534	Well, we have proposals ourselves, and many of them are recognized in the motion for a resolution here, but I do think that there is a serious point in saying that, in spite of the many suggestions and recommendations already made by the industry, that is, by the private suppliers, by the municipalities, by the employees, by the FOA, by the Elders case, by the Chamber Attorney, we have not been able to put an end to the bankruptcies, so we should not believe that we need to know everything yet. But of course we have our own proposals and, as I also mentioned, I have been back reading the old annals. And I would say that even when this was introduced here, the Conservative Minister for Social Affairs said that it was important that the working environment of the private suppliers should also be required. And perhaps there is something left in the discussions from then on which we should pick up and move forward. I have some idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122622	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122625	I would like to ask the rapporteur to help me a little on the way, even historically. As I understand it, this change has taken place in 2013 which the rapporteur's party was behind. From 2013 one could compete at price where before it could only compete on quality. As I understand it, when I look back at the debate that was then, the Elders actually warned against it and said that it would mean deterioration for the elderly and also more bankruptcies. Ulf Hjelmar, who I believe is in KORA today, found a few years ago that this so much competition at price has contributed to the many bankruptcies. I just want to know whether the rapporteur agrees that the fact that there is such a high level of competition on the basis of that change of law at the time contributes to the fact that we have seen all these bankruptcies in home care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122731	That is precisely why we in the Social Democratic Party have proposed to go through specific bankruptcies. If what was correct, we would see that the vast majority of bankruptcies we had seen in municipalities that have chosen the tender model, which is the one that means competing on the price. You don't do that with the approval model. With it, the municipality sets a price, and then you can bid in. However, as I said to the Minister, we have an inventory available. It was made by KL in October 2015, and there were 30 municipalities that had experienced bankruptcies. Of them, 19 had the approval model and only the 3 tender model. I am sorry to say this, but it is the reality that is knocking on the ideological story of the government that it should be the change of law that is just the problem. I am not saying that this cannot also be part of the problem. I think it certainly is for some types of suppliers. They're going to sign up for the track somewhere where it's actually not economically viable for them. I think there are other things at stake, too. In any case, I think that the statement we have from KL, as I know, is the only statement we have, drawing exactly the opposite picture of what would be drawn if what the questioner says was correct. So it's not quite that simple.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122832	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122834	But I have to understand that the rapporteur recognises that the beginning of price competition can contribute to a reduction in quality? We have also heard it in the media, and a number of people have also said so. But does the rapporteur recognise that opening up to competition on the price can be a major battle down with lower quality in home care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122901	As I said, if we look at the 22 specific bankruptcies that we have an analysis of in relation to what we have chosen, the 19 thus have the approval model and the 3 tender model. So it's only the 3 where it can be the price as a competitive parameter that explains it. So that's the answer in relation to the completely delineated. On the whole, it is true that if, on the part of the municipalities alone, one focuses on price and not on quality and does not have any realistic assessment of the bids that come in, then that is a problem, and if that is some of the things that come out when we see the result of the study and thanks for the external analysis that is still being made in the government's investigation, then that is clearly what we need to look at. But it is backwards to stand up and say that this is the case because you want it to be the case when the specific information we have does not point that way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122950	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421122953	Thank you. Now a lot of studies have been done about the free choice in the care of the elderly, which may not really have so much to do with free choice. In any case, there is a tendency for you to get answers that you ask, and if you ask someone: Do you want to decide for yourself, or do you want someone else to decide for you? It may not be so difficult to understand what the answer is to be given afterwards. Elders The case has actually made a study where you ask a little differently, and their study shows that what the elderly are most concerned with is what help they get and how that help is given, whereas the logo takes up less. Could this give the rapporteur an opportunity to reconsider the social democracy's approach to this issue?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123043	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123045	I very much agree with the rapporteur that this issue of free choice must be taken care not to oversell more than the pants can stand. We have sometimes heard the Minister for the Elderly and other liberal forces do so, so you almost get the impression that with free choice the trees grow into the sky, and then every morning, when a SOSU helper comes through the door, you can say that today I want to do one or the other or the third. It is quite true that free choice does not change the right to the paid benefits to which you are entitled. The rapporteur is absolutely right about this and I would very much like to take a look at how we can ensure that there is greater flexibility in relation to the elderly. Two days is not exactly the same, and one morning you can wake up with very swollen legs, and so it takes a long time to get a support sock on, and the other day you may have been so fresh and have so little fluid in your legs that you have been able to use your own aids. After all, we are human beings and two days are not the same, which is why I would very much like to take a look at how we can increase flexibility in our daily aid, but it is a discussion that can be conducted in a free choice. I agree with the rapporteur that when you hear bourgeois advocates of free choice, you can get the impression that free choice means that you as a citizen can choose freely on all shelves, and the rapporteur is absolutely right that that is not what free choice covers. That is why I also said, perhaps slightly boldly, to the Enhedslisten rapporteur, that free choice is two words that have been put together and then you can make them mean what you want. So, in part, the rapporteur is absolutely right, but it is not a discussion that depends on whether or not we have a free choice of supplier. This is a discussion we should be discussing, including in the regime that is today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123213	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123216	However, I would like to say a little in relation to the economy, given that the rapporteur refers to Gladsaxe, that in Aarhus there was at one point a bankruptcy that hit 800 citizens, and that was in the middle of the summer holiday, so it also meant that the municipality's own employees had been sent on vacation on a large scale, and it almost goes without saying that having to take care of so many citizens costs a great deal, because there are many people who need to be picked up on some overtime. But on top of that there is also uncertainty, because in the company that goes bankrupt, the municipality does not just have an overview of how much pay has already been paid or how much a backlog there is on holiday payments or pension payments, so nobody really knows what the bill is. Is it not reasonable to envisage a bank guarantee where you are actually flexible in relation to how many citizens the company in question has to deal with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123307	I think that the specific proposal on bank guarantee is a very sensible proposal, and I can also say that in the recommendations made by KL, Dansk Industri and Dansk Erhverv, it is also one of the things they bring along. Now the Minister for the Elderly said she would not reject anything, and of course it is not quite the same as saying that it is something you want to be involved in, but I find it hard to see that it is not something that will be on the table when we are going to negotiate it this summer. So let's finally do a round on it. After all, in committee we could take a round of the concrete things that lie here and then ask the Minister to deal with this now at some level, so that we are well prepared when the negotiations start. I think it would be very good if we did so in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123352	Thank you very much to Mrs Astrid Krag. There are no more brief comments in this round, and that is why we must now welcome Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123403	Thank you very much. I share the concerns of the proposers about the increasing number of bankruptcies in private home care. Since the change of law in 2013 adopted by the Social Democratic Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Enhedslisten, we have seen a sharp increase in the number of bankruptcies among private suppliers. It is, of course, nice that there are some who recognise the problems they have created and now want to solve them praise for it. Home care courses are not like all other bankruptcies, which are of course unpleasant, as they create uncertainty for the employees of the company and there may be some customers who do not get their supply of coffee pots or nuts. Because when a home help company goes bankrupt, people who sit at home need help to make life hang together also suffer. It is a completely different uncertainty and a completely different insecurity that we must ensure affects as few people as possible. So, again, I would like to commend you for taking initiatives to counteract the situation created in 2013. The Danish People's Party would like to contribute to this effort, but we would also like to do it right. Therefore, we had the government launch an in-depth investigation into the area so that we can seize the right tools to solve the problem of the many bankruptcies that have occurred since 2013. Among other things, it has to be done. the underlying reasons why the bankruptcy took place are examined. If there are common denominators in the matter, in contracts or in companies that coincide, that is where action is to be taken. Conversely, we will also have looked at the places where cooperation with a private supplier is going well. And if there are also common denominators here, it must be ensured that those conditions apply in future cooperation with private suppliers. The Danish People's Party believes that it is good that as a home help recipient you have the opportunity to choose between suppliers, so you can vote with your feet if you do not feel that the quality is right. It keeps the municipalities on their toes, so they have to provide a proper service unless they want to see the citizens choose a different offer. That is why we cannot support those parts of the proposals which seek to leave it up to the municipalities to give the citizens the free choice, because in our optics it is not for the benefit of the citizens. Because we want to ensure that the new rules in this area are adopted on as enlightened a basis as possible, we will not support the proposals as they stand either. It is simply premature and it would be a pity if the study showed that the facts would show that other measures are the right ones to take. That is not to say that none of the proposals here today will end up in the final effort, for example. The very idea of a bank guarantee is a solution in which we can also see the potential. It will provide additional certainty that a bank must believe in the project and thus provide an assessment of the long-term sustainability of the company. We think that will provide some security. On the other hand, we may wonder more about the idea that there should be a certain amount of profit in such a company. This means that the municipalities must choose the companies which are best placed to pull the economy out of the public sector and put the money in private pockets. This is a curious ambition, especially when you consider who has put forward the proposals. To sum up, however, I would like to say that we agree that the many bankruptcies we have seen are an evil that we must try to eradicate. But we'd rather have a proper analysis to do that from. So, even if parts of the proposed proposal may end up being reality, we will not support the proposals at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123803	You're welcome. There is a brief comment, Mr President. Finn Sørensen
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123807	Thank you. After all, the thing about the bank guarantee has been in the comments of the Act, at least from 2013, when Enhedslisten got it in. Unfortunately, not many of these municipalities have taken advantage of the problem. It is very easy to accuse others of having caused problems, especially when you do not come up with a single concrete proposal on how to avoid them yourself. So the rapporteur does not think it was very appropriate if the rapporteur could come up with some very concrete proposals on how to avoid bankruptcies, especially given that the rapporteur obviously thinks it should continue? After all, the rapporteur is of the opinion that in future we must also force municipalities to involve private suppliers, and that is where the problem arises, because private suppliers tend to conclude that they are not making enough money on some activity, and then they close down the business. So is it not appropriate for the rapporteur, with the attitude and approach to it, to provide some very concrete examples of how to resolve the problems created by bankruptcies and how to avoid them?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123919	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421123921	I don't know if sir. Finn Sørensen did not hear my rapporteur's speech, but that is exactly what I said in my rapporteur's speech, so I would not make a lot of proposals until I had an analysis to do so. Because I can spend a lot of time sitting down in my office dreaming and thinking about what it really takes. But if I do so on an uninformed basis, it's just a waste of time if it turns out that the actions I come up with aren't the right ones. That is why I want an investigation to do so, so that after having had an investigation on my table I can review it and say: What are some of the measures that I can see from this investigation on bankruptcy and good cooperation; what are the common features, what are we going to have more or less of? Then we can work on actions. The other one seems like a huge waste of my time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124008	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124009	I can tell the rapporteur that the proposals which the Enhedslisten is helping to make today have not come at dreams and by sitting and looking out the window. They have come by examining things, by talking to people who know it, among other things. the FOA trade union, by talking to our people in the municipalities and by looking at the recommendations that have come from a large number of organisations, including employers' organisations. In fact, this is all the work that has enabled us today to make proposals where there are very concrete measures. However, it is interesting that the rapporteur just wants an analysis. What is it that analyzes? I would like to ask the rapporteur. Because the case is very simple: the bankruptcy occurs because the private owners of the companies providing home care agree with themselves that they cannot make enough money on it, and therefore they close down. So what is it that needs to be analysed and will the rapporteur not be quite specific about what it takes to solve these problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124103	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124104	Now, of course, I cannot ask counter questions, but are these measures based on an analysis of the tenders that have gone well, the cases where there is good cooperation with a private supplier? That's one of them. What I have said is that it makes much more sense to look at: what is it that makes it work well with a private supplier? That's what I need. I need to know: How do you do it in the right way? What we need to do, in particular, is to say: how do we ensure, in relation to the people who do well, that their way of doing it is spread to all the others? This is the analysis I need before I start to think about what action I think we should take. It's funny that sir. Finn Sørensen accuses me of saying that I am on the side of the companies, who will make some money themselves, when you make a proposal that the municipalities should choose the companies that are best placed to pull the economy out of the public sector and stick them into private pockets, and when you want there to be a certain profit in such a company, that there simply has to be some money drawn out of the public sector before the government has to enter with a company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124205	Then it is Mrs Stine Brix for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124207	I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur is working on that option or, what is to be said, the scenario that we will always risk bankruptcy? Because that is the consequence of maintaining that there must be private suppliers in home care. There is also a risk of bankruptcy. So is it more important for the rapporteur to have private suppliers than to avoid bankruptcies?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124232	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124242	The questioner? There are no more questions. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Jeppe Jakobsen for his efforts and goes over to Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt from the Left, Denmark's Liberal Party. He's from South Jutland, by the way. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124252	Thank you, sir. President. Today we are dealing with two motions for resolutions. One is B 78, which is put forward by the SF, and the other is B 79, which is put forward by the SF, the Alternative and Enhedslisten. Both resolutions concern care for the elderly. In fact, they are so similar that agreement has been reached on the two motions for resolutions at the same time. I think that makes sense, because the focal points are bankruptcies in the care of the elderly. This is a subject which is very close to our minds in the Left. In fact, I think there is good reason at the beginning of my speech to congratulate the Minister. I think the Minister made a good speech, a visionary speech which gave answers to all the questions that are being asked. It is clear that the Minister will ensure that the elderly receive the best care, but also the greatest opportunity to influence the care themselves. I would just like to commend the Minister for that. It was a pleasure to listen to the Minister. If I have to say what it looks like on the part of the Left, it is so that we and the rest of the government are very concerned that we are doing something about it, in fact so much that we have been very pleased that, as part of the Tripartite Government, we have launched a major work aimed at providing the legislation with a service check, on the one hand, and through a dialogue with relevant parties, on the other hand, to clarify the bankruptcy and find answers to what can be done better. I think we should start by doing that in order to have a firm basis for operating on the basis of which it is possible. I also think that the Minister deserves praise for making sure that he is complete. No one wants to read about the bankruptcy and the insecurity of our older citizens, which naturally follows in the wake of bankruptcy. It can be said that the parties behind the motion for a resolution are kicking in an open door, that is to say the Minister's open door. We have heard that people are aware that things are being worked out. I would have been delighted if the parties had also had the courage to kick in another open door, that of the free choice. I hear there are some members of parliament who talk a lot about the fact that this free choice is not what you fight. Now one will see that I had the pleasure of sitting in the government also in 2002. At the time, which some Members of Parliament spoke a little about, we discussed the introduction of this. And those who would like to discuss it, I think I should try to read what was said on that occasion. I say hello and say that there were people who fought hard against the fact that it would ever come into being. Now it's got a slightly more balanced shape, and that's what happens when time goes by. But it wasn't like we were very close. I don't remember it that way. I have to say that the parties behind the B 79 SF, the Enhedslisten and the Alternative make it clear that the free choice will be restricted. I can then hear some people saying that this is not true, because we are giving the municipal council the free choice. Now I have the pleasure of being 20 years old in a municipal council. I think, however, that one must practice a long time in order to think that this is equivalent to the fact that when a town council means it, the elderly can decide for themselves. A great deal can be said about the town council members, but that should be exactly the same as the individual citizens making their own choices is enough to go a great deal far. So I don't believe that. That is why I think we should not restrict freedom of choice. That is why I think I can rightly say that we in the Left do not support it. On the contrary, we want to give the Danes even better opportunity to choose on and off. We have no sacred cows in terms of the free choice between public and private. What matters is that we, as people, have something to choose from. People are different, and families have different needs and preferences. Lifelong learning must be able to choose the solution and offer that best suits the person you are, whether we are now talking about day care, kindergarten, primary school, high school, nursing home or care for the elderly. We in the Left have a strong desire to put the citizen ahead of the system, and we intend to do so. You have to remember that people are different, and so are their desires for life, but we will never compromise on the possibilities of choosing on and off. Nearly a few years ago, former Health Minister Sophie Løhde published a study among 2,286 elderly people on elderly care and the elderly's view of care. And a large majority of the elderly pointed out that it is important or more important that there is free choice in the care of the elderly. So I cannot quite understand why both the SF, the Alternative and the Enhedslist choose to look very much at the wishes of the elderly and that the resolution risks de facto putting older people in the position that they may lose the help of a private or public player that they are happy about, simply because the three parties have an ambition to limit the choices of the elderly. So let's hold on to the citizen before the system. As I mentioned earlier, the government has started work on the prevention of bankruptcies in the area of the elderly, but it is also important to maintain that the municipalities as the authority responsible must fulfil the responsibility of solving such an important welfare task as taking good care of our elderly. Dansk Industri, KL, Dansk Erhverv and himself The DA has given a number of suggestions as to how the municipalities can take precautions and thus minimise the risk of being in a sluggish situation, as it is when a supplier goes bankrupt. From here must sound a clear call to the municipalities to take on the task and show due care. The proposals here will affect the municipalities with an even very large bureaucratic setup, which will actually remove focus from the core tasks. Municipalities do not need more bureaucracy, on the contrary, especially if we are to keep a sharp focus on core tasks in the future. On the basis of the points mentioned here, which are the subject of the two proposals, the Left cannot support B 78 or B 79. Let me just say, in order to reconcile expectations, that I will respond in this way to the questions that I have now been listening to and that I can hear will be the same. You can take what I've said for good goods. That is the position of the Left. We feel well covered by the Minister. We think the Minister is doing an excellent job. We think the Minister has the right visions. We think that the Minister is constantly presenting exactly what is needed so that the elderly can feel confident that they have a minister who intends to do what she can to ensure that the citizens experience what they themselves think should be the right thing. We're comfortable with that. So that would be the way I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124943	Thank you. And there is a brief comment from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421124949	One might almost feel completely superfluous as a health rapporteur with the svada at the end, but I would nevertheless like to ask whether the rapporteur thinks that if the municipalities are not best at assessing how best to organise the best care for the elderly in the best conditions and in the most rational way possible, one also owes it to them to impose this very bureaucratic system, which is also the free choice system, to ensure that there are also tools to prevent bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125025	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125027	Well, now I just want to say that, as I said myself, I have had the pleasure of sitting 20 years in a town council, the eight years as chairman of the Social Committee, and that is where we find out. I just want to say that the vast majority of good kicks I have received in the area of the elderly have come from the elderly themselves, from organisations, from people who have worked with the elderly and so on. As a rule, this is where I have been best inspired, and not so much from large think tanks. But what I just think is important here is to say that when the Minister has said that we are looking into these matters, we have just said that bankruptcies are serious, but that we have to look into those matters and we have to get that work started. Now the government has a talk with those parties, and then you come back and see what you do. We would like to be open to discussing some things, but it just has to be on a factual basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125118	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125120	But does the rapporteur not recognise that there are far too many examples of municipalities having had a huge extra bill precisely because of these bankruptcies, which are considerably more than is known from any other outsourced areas? After all, the area of elderly people peaks by almost twice as much, and it costs the municipalities a great deal of money, which could have been spent instead on sensible care for the elderly for the benefit of the citizens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125149	Now I am one of those who has been convinced by someone who once said that statistics and percentages are one of the closest things to lying. And it has a little to do with the fact that it depends on what these numbers are to be seen in relation to. But I think one bankruptcy is too much. I agree with the questioner on that. But another thing is that I also think it is necessary to consider whether the premise you put in is correct, that is to say the premise that it is on the basis of this setup that you see the bankruptcies, and that is the work that has started, namely that you have to find out where it is. So I think it should be given time to prepare it and then let us decide on a matter-by-case and professional basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125233	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125235	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge and acknowledge a positive speech by the rapporteur. And I would just like to mention that I fully agree that we should not have more bureaucracy. As we have heard before, there is also a bureaucracy associated with all these bankruptcies. And I also fully agree that we, as people, as the rapporteur also emphasised, are all different. And so are we when we get older, it gives itself, and there has to be a system that is designed for it. The rapporteur mentions having been in a municipal council for 20 years, and quite so many years I cannot boast, but I have been in a municipal council for six years. This is going to sound a little bit like the rapporteur, as if we could just say with the free choice system as older people: I would rather that meatballs are made instead of vacuuming. Is it not true that that is not what this is about? It's all about being searched for a service, and then you can choose whether it should be a private or the municipality performing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125346	At any rate, I am quite clear that I did not mention meatballs or vacuuming. But that could easily be discussed. In other words, I think we should be open to any suggestions that might come to make it more optional for the elderly. I always think you should be. It is true, then, that here the choice is that you can choose between different people who can then perform a task. I have very, very old people in my family who have had to take care of themselves for a long life. Then I just want to say that when I see that those people include, for example. My own 96-year-old mother suddenly has to make her own choices, what she is perfectly capable of, then I don't see why there has to be an authority to make the choice for her. When I think about what else she's had to do through life, I'm gonna say that she can handle it by herself. This is certainly not what is going to be left as the great redeeming moment when some authorities have managed to go in and impose a certain model on her. I can't see that. So we maintain our view of it, that is to say, we should be allowed to choose for ourselves. But we are open to what the questioner says: could we go further?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125459	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125501	It might be interesting to discuss whether one could put something else in that concept, that is to say free choice, and whether it is really a free choice. For right now it is just about which supplier it should be, and I am glad that the rapporteur's mother is so fresh and ready to make that choice herself. After all, we also have some elderly people in our society who, unfortunately, are a little more disadvantaged and do not have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether it should be private or municipal. What I just want to stress is that this is not a discussion about sitting at home and crossing the fact that one wants to do one thing or the other. After all, it is a discussion about choosing the supplier itself and not so much else. In this context, B 79, on which the alternative is co-sponsors, is of course not something where we say that there should not be private providers. I just don't want it forced on the municipality if the municipality doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125604	I think we are simply looking at it differently. I think that is quite real, and I accept that as well. I've had so many years in this Parliament, and that's how it's supposed to be. I can hear that the questioner thinks it is good that it is anchored in the municipality. I just take the view that it is better that it is well anchored in the citizens. That is, of course, on the basis of the position you have. But my whole life is basically marked by the fact that I would much rather that it is the citizens themselves who make a choice. And then I know some politicians who like that there is just a small guardian, the municipal council, who can then do it. I just don't share the view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125640	Thank you. And then it would be tempting to say mojn, mojn to æ Kidde from Vojens. But we don't do that here. We thank Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance for today's work. Yes, there may be some confusion over the order of things, but the rapporteurs for the proposers come to the end. But Mrs May-Britt Kattrup is just welcome. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421125710	Thank you. With this resolution, the Enhedslisten, the SF and the Alternative want to limit the use of private suppliers in home care. In doing so, they want to limit the freedom of choice, as 70%. of the elderly appreciate very much. However, I am pleased to hear that the Social Democrats want free elections and that Mrs Astrid Krag, who has unfortunately left, looks more at bankruptcy than I have heard before, and that is very welcome. However, it is strange that some politicians believe that they can decide better than the individual citizen himself what is best for the citizen. If the choice of a private supplier was mainly a bad experience for citizens, they would probably choose a public supplier and not a private one. Privatisation, as the parties call it, simply means that the municipality has to offer a private supplier, and not that the elderly have to choose the private supplier. But when so many older people are now so fond of private companies, it would be a pity to deprive them of that opportunity. We can see that satisfaction with private and public suppliers is almost equal. However, it is slightly higher for private suppliers. It is certainly a good idea to try to minimize the risk of bankruptcy. We are in any case in agreement on this and many of the things that are proposed in these two motions for resolutions are good proposals which I can only call on the municipalities to follow. They are very much in line with what the industry, together with the Chamber Attorney himself, has prepared as a guide to the municipalities. Municipalities should assess companies and offers. Is the company big enough for the job? Is it financially solid? Does the employee have enough, and has the necessary skills, etc.? And is the price realistic in relation to the task? Bank guarantee or other form of guarantee can also be a good opportunity, just as you look at the possibilities for employees to continue their work for the municipality in the event of bankruptcy. In this context, there are some obstacles to the rules for the transfer of businesses, but we in the Committee on Employment and the Committee on Health, after consultation with the ministers concerned, have asked questions about this, so let us see what the answers to them will be. Another important thing is to keep an ongoing dialogue with the supplier, so that you follow up on whether the quality that you have bought and paid for is delivered and whether something needs to be fixed in the agreement along the way. Finally, it is important to have a standing order if a bankruptcy takes place anyway. Many of these factors are important to keep in mind when buying a service. Some are more relevant than others in different situations. There may be differences between municipalities. Therefore, it would not be appropriate to force uniform requirements on the process down over all municipalities, but rather to leave it up to the individual municipality to decide what is the best solution in its situation. Whether it would be advantageous to make stronger recommendations than now must be based on the work that has been started. You can also see whether the requirements are specified enough in the tenders. Are the conditions for the private suppliers reasonable? Is there the same documentation requirements etc.? Are prices comparable? Do we even know what it costs in the public system, after all, and have all costs been taken into account? But even with the uncertainties there are, everything suggests that quality, service and prices will be better when offering and using private suppliers. Even in those cases where the municipality itself wins the task, it is subsequently performed better and cheaper only because one has been through a process where one has defined and described the task and has therefore become more aware of how best to solve it. As I said, it is possible that some adjustments will have to be made when the work is done. Yet the Liberal Alliance does not support this proposal. On the other hand, we support the citizens' right and desire to have free elections. And I should like to welcome the Conservatives, who unfortunately could not be here today, and say that they do not support the proposals either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130145	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130150	I just have a little question to answer. The rapporteur started by saying something like that with the proposal we want to restrict the use of private suppliers. Where does the rapporteur read this in the motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130209	As I have read it, it is the conclusion of your proposal, and it is also stated in the comments that you want to restrict the use of private suppliers. If I've read it wrong, I'm sorry, and it's only gratifying.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130224	Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130226	The proposal is, of course, that you are not forced as a municipality to offer private suppliers. This is not the same as the fact that we want to restrict the use of private suppliers, as it is then up to the municipality. After all, we have municipal autonomy, and it is then up to the municipality if they want to offer it in relation to the law that is now, for example. must offer at least two suppliers. So it is not my view that we want to restrict the use of private suppliers as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130306	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130308	I am quite convinced that adopting this proposal would mean limiting private suppliers. And for me, it is more important for citizens to have free choice than for municipalities to have free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130326	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130328	It is no surprise that the Liberal Alliance rapporteur is in favour of more privatisation. The confidence that private companies are just doing better and cheaper is so high that I am simply tempted to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur's confidence is so great that she could imagine that the municipalities could completely escape universal service. That would solve the problem, and the municipalities would not have to have a bill that is really, really big every time it happens that there are bankruptcies, and there are a lot of them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130411	Thank you. First of all, I want to correct. We are not in favour of privatisation, we are in favour of tendering, and this is because we are still in favour of local authorities having universal service. Okay, that's it. As far as the number of bankruptcies is concerned, we must say that only three bankruptcies we have had on the tender model. And it is true that one is too much, and we must try to do what we can to avoid what I have also said in my rapporteur's speech, in which I have put a great deal of emphasis on and given a very detailed description of initiatives which can prevent bankruptcies. But we can never completely avoid it; it is a risk that will be there, and it is really a strength for the market, because it will mean that it is the best and the cheapest who are there and who will stand for the supply and who can get the tasks. As to how much the municipalities are actually losing on these bankruptcies, I would say that there are also questions to put about it. In the example of Kolding, to which the proposers themselves refer, 14 million have been counted. kr., but only approx. 300,000 of these dollars is a real loss. The rest is calculated as what we call a sacrifice cost in the operating economy, i.e. a cost that has been incurred because the savings that would have been made if the private supplier had done the job because the private supplier could have made it cheaper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130552	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130556	Now 13 million. kr. In the budget deficit, because you do not get this saving anyway, also some kind of money, but leave it alone. If one now imagines the ultimate, in relation to the fact that a municipality's citizens all choose a private supplier... there could be 10,000 citizens in Aarhus Municipality... and the company carrying out the task goes bankrupt, how does the municipality feel about the universal service? The rapporteur will agree with me that the more citizens you are responsible for, the easier it is to organise rational work and the greater the opportunity to do the job qualified.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130636	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130640	I will start with what the rapporteur said first, when the rapporteur said that 13 million. kr. is also a kind of deficit. Yeah, and that's definitely not what I said. What I said was that the figure has been calculated, and exactly it is DKK 14.333.704, but only DKK 325.954. is a real loss. The rest is because you did not get the benefit you would have obtained if the private supplier had done the job, because in Kolding you know and have calculated that the private person could have done it cheaper than you could have done yourself. As far as the people affected by bankruptcy are concerned, it is of course regrettable, and that is why, as I said earlier, we must have a standing order.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130727	Thank you very much to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. There are no more brief comments and we are moving on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421130738	First of all, thank you to the Minister for recognising the issue and for having wanted to find a good solution to this problem, because in the alternative, we recognise that it is a problem and that it is an important issue. We believe that the many bankruptcies in home care are a major problem both for citizens who experience the consequences of day-to-day life with changing employees, temporary workers, etc., and for municipalities who are experiencing the economic consequences. After all, the municipalities must immediately take over the home care of the citizens who are without home help. Concourses cost the municipalities money. Now the former rapporteur has just mentioned Kolding Municipality, and according to the mayor it has cost the municipality about DKK 400 000 that companies have gone bankrupt, and this was mentioned by the former rapporteur as only about DKK 350,000. I should say that in a municipal council budget is 350,000 or 400,000 kroner. A lot of money. After all, it is money that could have been used to strengthen home care and to create more security and care for our elderly, and which is now being used instead for paperwork and to clean up after bankruptcy. So we do not think that municipalities should be forced to make agreements with a certain number of private suppliers if a municipal council does not want to do so, for example. because demand may not be there. The current model and the savings that municipalities have suffered in recent years are, unfortunately, forcing municipalities to focus too much on price rather than quality when concluding contracts with private suppliers. Indeed, as we have also heard in the past, the change in 2013, among other things. This meant that private suppliers could not only compete on quality, but also on price. This has often led to an unacceptable deterioration in the care of citizens and, in some cases, a direct lack of care. So we must ensure that citizens' home help is continuous and that citizens can be sure that it will come forward, whether or not suppliers have gone bankrupt. As you know, we have municipal autonomy and, in our optics, the municipalities must not be forced to use private suppliers. If they choose to use private suppliers, it is essential that a number of requirements are laid down for suppliers through the tender. Among other things: We also believe that it is reasonable that the suppliers used by the municipality should fulfil their obligations to train the employees of the future. I would like to emphasise that we are not against private suppliers, and we would actually like even more models for how to deliver welfare in society, for example. models where a private company, civil society and the public provide welfare services together. We are also open, as I have just discussed with the previous rapporteur, to the fact that we can fill some new content in the term 'free choice' so that we can really choose freely as older people. So, in relation to this debate, we believe that both resolutions are proposals for a solution, but we believe that B 79 is a more comprehensive one, and we support B 79 as a starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131121	Thank you very much to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lotte Rod from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131133	Æ girl it, you tough noe about that Ã Ã Ã Ã Ã Ã Ã ̧ Ã ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ ̧ But you can do that next time. But you can do that next time). Fine, fine.). When you get there in life, where you need help with practical things, it matters that you get the help you need. That is why it is unfortunate that we have seen a series of bankruptcies that have created insecurity among people. It is an important subject which is being addressed in the motions for resolutions, but the question for me and for the Radical Left is whether it is necessarily the right thing to do. Where we can see the most scam in it by the Radical Left is in the proposal that we should leave it up to the municipalities to choose whether or not to have free elections, instead of it being something that we have imposed in here from the Folketing. On the other hand, I am a little more lukewarm about some of the other proposals. It may be that we need to get to what is at stake in accounting checks, for example. Mr President, I would like to make a few comments on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Because it means something to us that you too, as an entrepreneur, are given a chance... that there may be some socio-economic companies that want to... and that we are not going to make the rules so bureaucratic that it cannot be done. So that is some of what we hope will be part of the study and on which we will have a separate focus. Now, as we hear, the government is looking at it. We therefore hope, in the Radical Left, that we will soon be called to debate it. So maybe we can all agree on a text in committee that shows a direction for it, so that we have something to go over to the minister with when we are about to negotiate it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131330	Mojn, mojn to Mrs Lotte Rod, and man thank you for the go'e taal. We welcome the rapporteur for the proposers of B 78, Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131352	Thank you, sir. President. There can't be so many legs in planning home care! At least one gets the impression that this is how some officials and politicians and perhaps even private companies' organisations have thought, when the law of free elections was established in the morning of time. Unfortunately, too many bankruptcies have proved that it is not always that simple. As a company, you can be too small to cope with the demands of the task after all. It was probably also one of the arguments for the amendment of the law in 2013 that exposure to competition would, on the one hand, reduce the number of companies with which the municipalities had to cooperate, and, on the other hand, would give the slightly larger companies a competitive advantage and thus also allow for more stability in this area. I do not wish to deny that there is also a skeleton to the golden promises of the big employers' associations, because for quite a long time the employers' associations have promised billion savings if only the municipalities would leave the care of the elderly to the private sector. Now it is not the case that private business organisations have actually admitted that they were wrong, but they have recently said that the municipalities care too much about the economy and too little about quality and that the area has become too cheap. So maybe you can at least conclude that someone's gotten smarter. Indeed, the fact that a public area is to be forcibly offered is an extremely poor market strategy in isolation. After all, it deprives municipalities of the opportunity to consider what makes sense in a given area both at the organisational level and also at the business level. One can easily see areas where it would be more rational and therefore cheaper for the municipality if the municipality itself organized the care of the elderly. Precisely the compulsory provision of tasks in the care of the elderly is partly extremely bureaucratic, and partly it deprives the municipality of the possibility of wise flexibility. And it's just customary, wise grocery store that if I'm forced to sell, the customer can also expect the product to be cheaper than if I can just sell when it actually makes sense. In the SF we also recognise that citizens have expressed the importance of free elections, but we have also taken note of the study by the Elders Case, which shows that citizens are more concerned with the help they receive than they are concerned with the logo. A summer a short time ago there was a bankruptcy in Aarhus, where 800 citizens five minutes after the bankruptcy stood and needed the help of the municipality in the middle of the summer holiday. If the municipality proposes to the employees who know the citizens, yes, it is considered a transfer of business, and it is seen to be a bit like playing with a blind partner, because, of course, in five minutes you cannot get an overview of the wage delays and extra bills that you are taking on. But even when the municipality does not use the employees already, it can become really, really expensive, because it may be necessary to call employees on overtime or call expensive temporary workers. So I am listening to the Minister and several rapporteurs argue that free elections are worth the risk of bankruptcy and that we are not prepared to leave decision-making powers to the municipalities. On the other hand, I am also listening to the fact that there is an understanding of motion for a resolution B 78 on the requirements for the remuneration of private operators............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In fact, I also propose that the proposal be referred to committee so that perhaps we can have a debate on how we in committee can be involved in the deliberations that are taking place in relation to making demands on companies on bank guarantees. So I just want to say thank you for a good debate and I look forward to the further discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131800	There is a brief comment and it is from Mrs May-Britt Kattrup. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131805	Thank you. It's a clear question. I cannot quite understand it, because on the one hand the rapporteur believes that the municipalities should be allowed to decide for themselves, because they are the best ones to decide whether or not to use a private supplier. On the other hand, the rapporteur would very much like that if the municipalities are to use a private supplier, the rapporteur will decide in detail how it should be carried out. What's the balance in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131837	I am not sure I fully understand the question. If the rapporteur refers to the fact that it is necessary to plan in detail what task private suppliers have to carry out, then it is of course the municipalities that are making the agreement and making the service agreements in relation to the tasks that can be carried out by the elderly. However, if, on the other hand, the rapporteur refers to the question of giving the municipalities tools and giving them the opportunity to demand, for example, a bank guarantee, then it makes very good sense to tell the municipalities that there must be free choice in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131916	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131918	I fully agree that it is a very good idea to give the municipalities some tools and an opportunity. But I hear the rapporteur say that it is necessary to make it compulsory, how municipalities plan free elections, how to involve a private supplier, how to make a contract with them in the smallest detail. And I think that is a big contradiction. For me, it is important that citizens have free choice. I would like to know whether it is more important for the rapporteur that it is the municipalities that have the free choice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421131952	In fact, I think it is important for me that we give the municipalities the opportunity to solve the tasks in the best way and the cheapest way in relation to the citizens. And I actually believe that the Liberal Alliance has the same ambition. If that means that a municipality is thinking that it would make sense here to solve the tasks differently from what is dictated by the legislation today, when it is forced to choose freely, then I think it is an option. Now the rapporteur is simply running as we speak... I just think I am giving up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132030	If the rapporteur gives up, I would like to thank her for the work she has done today and to give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Stine Brix.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132040	Thank you for that, President. There won't be any South Jutland from here, I'm sorry! We have tabled the B 79 proposal in cooperation with the Alternative and the SF, and we do, because there is a serious problem. We have seen a series of bankruptcies in home care where private companies providing home care to older citizens have gone bankrupt. Status as at 1 February 2017 you can follow if you go to FOA's website Konkursindex.dk. And the status is that there are 43 companies that have gone bankrupt, at least 11,648 citizens have been affected by these bankruptcies, almost 2,000 employees in about half of the country's municipalities. It has, of course, caused great inconvenience to the citizens who depend on a home helper to provide home help, which has caused inconvenience to the employees who suddenly lost their jobs, but it has also caused problems for the municipalities who suddenly had to jump to and with extra costs to solve the problem of home help going bankrupt. It is a fundamental problem that current legislation means that municipalities are forced to use private suppliers and cannot make an assessment of how best to organise home help. This means that the private suppliers have a duty to ensure that the public can play the grocery business and close the business if things are not going as well as they would have hoped in terms of making money, and then the municipalities will have to clean up afterwards. We certainly do not think that this is a reasonable situation to put the municipalities and citizens in. After all, the many bankruptcies also show that the government's plunder that private companies mean best and cheapest welfare is not true. And that is why we believe that there should be no coercion against the municipalities to use private companies. The position of the Enhedslisten is that the best cure for bankruptcies is that we do not have private companies at all who make money from care for the elderly. But with this proposal it is up to the municipalities to decide how to organise home care. If the municipalities choose to use private companies in home care, we believe that there must then be requirements that ensure that, at least as far as possible, they do not have bankruptcies with the genes that this causes for the citizens. It is both a question of ensuring that there is a proper economy in the companies providing home care, that there is a bank guarantee so that the municipalities do not end up with a disproportionate bill, but it is also a question of something as basic as that pay and working conditions are in order and that the companies providing home care also assume the responsibility of educating future employees in home care, and a number of other conditions which also apply to the municipalities' own home care. The most important thing for us in this case is to prevent these bankruptcies. And that is contrary to what, among other things. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party said very clearly here from the platform, namely that the most important thing for the Danish People's Party and one could add for the rest of the parties in the blue block is that there are private companies in home care. That's just where we disagree completely. If we succeeded in preventing bankruptcies in home care, it would be in the interests of both the elderly, who otherwise have to live with the insecurity, for the employees and for the municipalities themselves. I think it is important to stress that if we succeed in preventing these bankruptcies, we are far from achieving our goal in our home care. Because that does not change the fact that the framework conditions that apply to home care today are far too bad. Home care is starving financially because we have a government which is pursuing an economic austerity policy towards the municipalities. As recently as Monday one could read in Jyllands-Posten that in 81 out of the country's 98 municipalities this year less money is spent on older people than last year. We also know, if we look at it in a slightly longer perspective, in the last 10 years, that 6 million home help hours have disappeared from the elderly, in other words at a time when there have been significantly more elderly people. So we have a home care that is too poor and that is perhaps the most important thing to address when we talk about our home care. But this proposal is about bankruptcy. Finally, I should like to make a comment on the debate on free elections. I think it is quite true that many elderly people want a free choice, but the question is: a free choice for what? For what is important for the elderly, as the SF's rapporteur has also pointed out in the debate, is that you have an influence on what you get help with, how help comes and which home helper comes in through the door. And there is no freedom whatsoever in the way the system works today. The only thing you can choose freely is whether it is a private company or a public supplier. There is, of course, much, much more perspective in music in the initiative that we launched with the previous government on a rock card scheme, in which the elderly can decide for themselves what they are using the home help lessons, or at least some of the ones they are getting delivered. This is, of course, a freedom, it is a free choice, and that is what we need to strengthen far more than this pseudo-freedom, which is what the Blue Block is all about when we talk about free choice in this context. I would like to conclude by thanking both the SF and the alternative for cooperation, but also the Radical Left for being positive about the proposal. And then I hope that we can work on getting through with some of that so that we can tighten up on this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132651	Thank you. The rapporteur challenged one or two of his colleagues, and the first to speak is Mr Seligman. Jeppe Jakobsen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132658	Thank you. Why is it so important for Enhedslisten that municipalities should enter with the companies that are best placed to pull the economy out of the welfare society and put it into private pockets, as is proposed in this proposal? I think it seems a little out of line with the Device List Party I usually know. Why is it so important to withdraw money from the welfare society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132721	Nor is it, and that is not what it says. What it says is that it is important that the companies used by the municipalities should also have a solid economy if they choose to use private suppliers. This is assessed before they enter home care, which means that it should not be companies such as the United Kingdom. have been bankrupt in the past. The fact that, for example, we are dealing with the problem of unemployment. If we can go in and assess the level of surpluses, we can also consider whether they have a totally abnormally large surplus and therefore do exactly what the rapporteur says, namely to a large extent withdraw money from welfare. So you can use that estimate of profit in different ways, but when it comes to solidity, it is of course about a solid company that we do not see going bankrupt after a short time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132806	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132808	So you don't really want to do anything with this. You just ask the municipalities to go in and look at an accounting and then think in one direction or another. There is no such thing as something you want with it; it is just such a requirement that those who make the supply should look up an account and see if there is a plus, minus or about zero. It doesn't really matter, but you just have to do that exercise. That is what you want with it; what you have to do is look up on the last page of the accounts and see what is on the bottom line, and from there you have to think something, but it is less important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132843	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132845	The fact that the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party has not understood the proposal is not the same as the fact that we do not want anything to do with it. In other words, what it says is that it is important that one thing is to ensure that it is a solid economy and that, like the other, one must, of course, consider whether it is a company that has a surplus which is completely abnormal and also relates to tax payments. This is justified by what we have seen in Sweden, where very large welfare groups are pulling huge profits out of welfare and even putting profits into tax havens, so that tax payments are avoided. It is with reference to this that, in addition to considering whether it is a firm with a solid economy, one should also consider whether it is a company that might act in such a way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132931	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132935	Thank you. I heard the rapporteur praise the rock card scheme. I am very pleased to hear that. The fact that the rapporteur really wants to extend that system also sounds very positive to me. If the rapporteur is prepared to move towards a voucher scheme like this, and I would like to ask whether the rapporteur is • I would really like to talk more about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421132958	We'd like to talk more about a rock card scheme. That is not exactly what the proposal is about today, but I think it is appropriate to include it because the blue bloc is talking so much about free elections. But the free choice that the blue bloc is talking about is a hollow free choice. There is no free choice in the sense that citizens demand it, namely in the form of freedom to decide more for themselves what to use your home help for. There is no such thing in the free elections that the blue bloc is talking about. That is why I think it is appropriate to point out the initiative that Enhedslisten was included in the Finance Act for 2015, as far as I remember it also does not matter when it was with the previous government. For that is a real freedom, it is a real flexibility for the elderly, where you can do exactly what the Minister was talking about, namely take real account of the fact that we as people are different and that we have different wishes and needs and that you can also take it into old age.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421133053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421133057	So, free choice and even more free choice, we can really talk about much more, because that is clearly something that the Liberal Alliance wants on all fronts. However, because the free choice, which the rapporteur does not call a real free choice today, and I would like to agree with the rapporteur in that way, it is nevertheless a system that the elderly are extremely pleased with. So I would like to ask the rapporteur: why limit it, since that is what the elderly want so much? 70% of them are very, very happy with it, and if you measure on most parameters, the elderly are more satisfied with a little bit only, but still more with the private than with the public. So why don't you go on out of that key? And then together we can figure out how to make it even more free.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421133150	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421133152	It was good to hear from the Liberal Alliance that it is not a real free choice, as the rapporteur said. I fully agree with that. But may I just say that this is part of what we are talking about here: the free choice in the sense that you can choose a private company; the municipalities are forced to have private home help companies in their elderly care. It's part of the fact that we're seeing a series of bankruptcies. I don't think the elderly want that. It is, of course, part of the fact that it is more expensive for the municipality to organise home help, that is, to spend money out of which the citizens are not getting more home help, to have it here. We could spend that money on better care for the elderly. We could of course use them to have higher quality standards in the municipalities, in other words quite specifically, that we should, for example, have higher quality standards in the municipalities. could get in the shower more often than you can today. I think that would be much wiser. And I think it is an incredibly high price for what the rapporteur himself says is not even a real free choice, that we see bankruptcies and that we see reduced care for the elderly because it costs the municipality in administration and in the absence of economies of scale. That is why I think it would be far, far wiser to follow the proposal we have put forward here, together with the alternative and the SF. I think that would take some steps towards better care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421133303	Thank you very much to Mrs Stine Brix. There are no more brief comments. No one else seems to have asked to speak, and I therefore regard the debate as closed. I propose, in response to Mrs Kirsten Normann's request, that the proposal be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly for further consideration. If any of you do not object, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170421133330	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking everyone for today's work in the service of the people's government. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 25 April 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. Have a good weekend!
