ParlaMint-DK_20171201100009	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Lisbeth Bech Poulsen (SF) and Jacob Mark (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 44 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on social liability in pension funds). Christian Langballe (DF) and others: Question No. F 13 (What is the Government's view of the United Nations Convention of 30 August 1961 on the Reduction of Statelessness and the Impact of the Convention on the Granting of Citizenship by the Folketing, and what can the Government say about any initiatives which the Government has already taken or intends to take in the near future in relation to the amendment of the Convention?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100037	Unfortunately, the Minister of Education is not here. Well, that wasn't so good, 'cause then we can't start on time. I have to ask the Minister to be on time for the future. Then we can start the debate. The first rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100138	What should young people choose after primary school? If you are sure you want to continue studying, you should of course take a secondary education. It prepares studies and provides a good foundation during the lectures, studies, compendies and task writings of the coming years. But if you are sure that you want to continue working, you should take a vocational training course which gives you the competence to do a special job and, as a skilled worker, you have good opportunities to get a good salary, start a business, travel around with your training. But what if you want both, if you are a little in doubt, or if you are just so ambitious that you have the courage on both books and tools at a high level? Fortunately, we have developed the eux programme, which is becoming increasingly popular and with good reason. With eux, you get skilled and at the same time get a student hat. If I could change my own youth education today, I would definitely take an eux. The parties behind the vocational school reform have over the last year discussed a number of minor organisational problems concerning eux education. We have also wanted changes to the eux as a result of the college reform. Following the presentation of an evaluation of the eux, we therefore decided to slightly adjust the training, and these are the minor amendments to the legislation we are about to adopt. I am not going to go through all the details of the draft law here, but simply emphasise that it has been important for the Social Democrats that eux students should have a little more time with teachers and a little less time alone, and with those words we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100302	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Mrs Marlene Harpsøe as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100313	On the basis of an evaluation of the eux, the parties in the vocational training contract circle, including the Danish People's Party, have agreed on some changes to strengthen the eux on several points. The two existing projects, the exam project and the larger written task, are replaced by a larger coherent project to ensure closer interaction between the vocational and upper secondary subjects. The new feature is that the business area will consist of a number of multi-professional projects, ending with a written business area project with an oral test. Focus will be on real-life issues, and the final project can be immersed with the swing test, if possible. And I think that we should do our utmost to try and add to it with the swing test, because that would make a great deal of sense. In the enterprise area project there must also be at least one upper secondary subject at least B level, together with one or more subjects from vocational training. The Eux evaluation pointed out, among other things, that: It is also pointed out that it is difficult to maintain pupils in a professional progression at upper secondary levels when internship. That is why this bill increases teaching time, as it is important that pupils achieve the expected academic level. Secondly, the Minister is given the power to lay down rules on the ongoing evaluation of pupils' professional results by schools and to draw up a curriculum for upper secondary education. Finally, a written test at Danish A level becomes mandatory. This will help strengthen both the Danish subject and the writing on eux, which we in the Danish People's Party welcome. For us in the Danish People's Party, it is important that eux works optimally and that is why, of course, we agree to changes that make sense. But we must also realise that Eux is in a phase of construction. It is still completely new and therefore one should be careful to make more fundamental changes on eux before we have more valid figures and data to make our decisions based on. I'm feeling a little like Mr. Kim. Mattias Tesfaye from the Social Democratic Party, and if I could choose differently today, and if Eux had existed when I had to take a youth education, then I would also have chosen eux. It's a great youth education, where you get both this student certificate and student hat, and at the same time you get a letter. In the Danish People's Party we have high expectations of eux, and that is among other things. interesting to see that more and more young people choose eux and become both a student and a skilled student at one and the same time. We should really like to have even more young people open their eyes to the many possibilities of eux. The Danish People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100636	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments and the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100645	Thank you for that, President. Today we are currently dealing with L 82, which contains a number of adjustments to the vocational Baccalaureate, the eux, as it is called. And the bill must be seen in the light of the evaluation of the eux that was presented back in March this year. The evaluation showed that although in many areas there are many good things in the eux, there are also some challenges, and we are taking care of that now. In particular, there are challenges at eux in achieving the academic goals of the upper secondary subjects. There are challenges with the link between vocational subjects and upper secondary subjects on individual eux courses, and we must of course try to solve those challenges. We need to make the eux as strong as possible, because we need eux. This training provides a unique training offer to young people. It is a vocational training which at the same time gives full study competence, thereby helping to strengthen the professional level in the vocational professions. Eux contributes to the fact that more young people, who might otherwise have chosen a quite ordinary upper secondary education, opt for vocational training instead. And Denmark really needs that. We need more young people to choose a skilled path, and we need to be able to meet the demand of companies in this way too in the long run. With the adjustments to the eux presented in this bill, we are helping to strengthen the link between practice and professionalism. The adjustments should mean more teacher presence in the teaching. They must mean better ongoing evaluations and involvement of pupils, and they must mean that we reach the goals of the academic objectives of eux. That is why I am very pleased that, with this bill, we can hopefully give eux an extra boost in the right direction, so that a good and unique education can be even better. Against this background, of course, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100905	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201100912	I can hear the previous speakers saying that if you do not say something nice about eux, you will probably be doing a bad job. I agree with what has been said by the previous speakers. It is very reasonable that we have received an education that combines taking a vocational education with a baccalaureate. The proposal provides for some minor adjustments to the vocational baccalaureate, and the changes take place on the basis of the evaluation carried out on eux, and it has among other things. for the purpose of what I think is really sensible to strengthen the link between vocational and upper secondary subjects. We in the Enhedslist think that it is a very good purpose that is in the bill here. In concrete terms, we think that the proposal to replace the two existing projects with a larger, coherent business area project is a clear improvement, and it is also very good that the business area project is handled in such a way that we have changed it in general upper secondary education and the two other three-year upper secondary education courses that you combine it, that there should be a written answer, with an oral test. It's really good that we get it in here, too. We think it is good that the proposal provides students with more teaching time with teacher presence in the upper secondary subjects, and we also support the introduction, as in other upper secondary educations, of the concepts of teaching time and immersion time and an individual hour pool. Finally, we think it is a good thing to harmonise the other three-year upper secondary educations so that we make the written test in Danish A compulsory on eux. Fortunately, this does not happen by increasing the number of tests in this area, but by making it one of the six tests already included in the legislation. So all in all, we think it is a very sensible adjustment of the eux and we agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101119	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101126	With Bill L 82, we are improving something that is already a very good invention, namely eux. This is done on the basis of an evaluation and is simply an expression of due diligence on the part of the Danish Parliament. But I would also like to make a few comments on that. The whole creation of eux is, after all, almost something that corrects a structural error in the education system, that is to say that there has been too little interest in vocational training and has been disproportionately interested in academic education. It is good that we get this right and, generally speaking, strengthen vocational training, also with completely new measures such as eux. And since no one else has said so far, I should like to take this opportunity to say that one of the people who has really played a part in correcting the mistraining of Danes is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, who sits in this Chamber and who brought it up many years ago. It is fantastic to see how something that starts as a public debate can be received and processed and can end up becoming really sensible legislation. I certainly think there is reason to congratulate you on that. But it's really common sense to strengthen eux like this, so of course we support that in the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101302	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101309	Thank you. At the risk of destroying the good atmosphere of all the rapporteurs, I would like to start by saying that I am concerned. I am concerned that we really want the craftsmanship in Denmark and here in the Danish Parliament, and unfortunately I am supported in that concern when I see the L 82 bill. Because the bill is about eux. It is about the special vocational training which has a •x • at the end instead of a •d • and which must signal that it is a mixture of htx, stx and an eud. The education is for all the young people who would like to have both a baccalaureate and a staff letter, and that education is not just for fun. It is not a bath ticket, and it is no easier to take than a stx, on the contrary. In about 4 years, that is, only a few months more than it takes for most eud programmes... the students must achieve a academic level as a baccalaureate and the same level of craftsmanship as an eud, and it is difficult. I know what I'm talking about. For the very first team that went up to the eux exam in 2014, the 12 boys who were left on the carpenter's team that was the first in Denmark to go up, I was Danish A-level teacher for. It was 12 boys who were to become super capable carpenters at the same time, and they were. They received up to several silver medals for their rehearsal, but it also required that they struggled and worked, and that their teachers and their leaders fought and worked, not least with their high-level subjects, for example. Danish A, and I can say that one of my greatest achievements to date in career terms, if you can call it that, is that four of the 12 boys achieved a 10 in oral Danish at A level. That was so nice. That is why I am concerned that this draft law seems to want to make education even more academic, as if the level is not high enough now. Why? In concrete terms, I am concerned that the written Danish A exam will be made compulsory. Why? And it worries me that one wants to introduce immersion time, which is cheaper time, one might say that can be filled with someone other than their high school teachers. I am concerned that 80 more hours will be introduced without indicating where the 80 hours are to be found, because there is no room on the table right now for 80 more hours within the framework. So are they supposed to be found during the internship? How are they to be found? I would therefore like to ask for an answer to that question. I'm not part of the conciliation circle. It is already difficult to find long internships for eux students, because the masters have to choose from some who are long away to be on the school bench and some who are long in the company. I am also concerned about whether we really want vocational training in Denmark when I look at the political decisions and priorities that have been taken here in the Folketing, and here I am thinking specifically of the re-priority contribution. There are 107 different vocational training courses in Denmark spread over 89 schools. By 2021, 89 schools will have 1.2 billion. kr. less to do well if we continue with this annual saving of 2%, which was started in 2016. With L 82 we impose more administrative work on schools without even being sure that we will solve the challenges that exist. Now they have to develop a new programme, the multi-disciplinary business area project, which is a combination of their larger written task and the exam project. We therefore impose a new development work on schools once they have just managed what it's like to do a SSO project, and then we require them to make study plans that go across all subjects. This is probably a very good idea, but also time-consuming for both teachers and managers, and as you know, time is money in a taximeter-controlled education system. Finally, I want to say what I started by saying, because what about the craft? What about the part about becoming a good craftsman? I am concerned that the part of the Rambøll report on craftsmanship is not taken as a starting point. In the report, for example, one can: read, and I quote:... that some eux students do not have enough flair for the workshop subjects; that "they struggle with the fact that their hands are not sitting on". At these schools there are considerations as to whether it is the result of a skewed marketing of eux, where the student hat is highlighted at the expense of the craftsmanship. I am worried that the draft law we are debating today, L 82, will continue and underline this biased marketing. That is why I am in favour of finding solutions to the challenges facing the eux. I just do not believe that the proposals we are discussing today are the right solutions, and I do not believe that they provide solutions to the problems outlined in the Rambøll report either. The Eux is already composed as a unique package. We should think about how students get better into the game when they finish their education, for example. by perhaps giving them priority to specific training courses. I look forward to reading all the amendments to education that the Minister has received from vocational schools. Perhaps they provide solutions to the fundamental challenges. I think we need to have the courage to think about the eux all over again and to set aside the necessary resources for it instead of imposing extra minor adjustments on schools.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101847	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. A brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101852	Thank you. I think that Mrs Pernille Schnoor from the Alternative was extremely concerned in the rapporteur's speech. Perhaps there were also places where Mrs Pernille Schnoor simply contradicted herself. On the one hand, you proudly told me how talented these students were, who even scored the silver medal, which is actually the best achievable as a carpenter, and on the other hand, you're going down on this proposal. Does Mrs Pernille Schnoor not agree at all that the eux is actually a really good education and that we also have to adjust it to make it even better?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101937	Please remember that there is no direct indictment in the Assembly Hall. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201101941	I hope I expressed, as I said at the end of the day I was not allowed to say the last of my speech because time had passed that it was a unique composite package. My point about this is that making minor adjustments doesn't help. It doesn't help to go in to fine-tune some things, for example. Add two tasks together, or where teachers are asked to make more papers on how to put together different subjects. My point is that if you have to do something, you have to solve the real challenges, because the real challenges are that it is extremely difficult to find internships when they are as much on the school bench as they are. It's hard to get them to level. And yes, there are some skilled teachers, both on the academic side and on the craft side. I have also been out talking to some schools about it; this isn't something I'm just making up. I've been out talking to some schools about what these real challenges are, and I just don't believe this is gonna solve it. I have not been involved in the work up to, but I think some more basic thoughts need to be thought about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102058	Thank you. Mrs. Anni Matthiesen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102100	Thank you. Mrs Pernille Schnoor says that it is not enough to make small adjustments, and at the same time Mrs Pernille Schnoor says in her rapporteur's speech that when you change something, it causes anxiety. But does Mrs Pernille Schnoor not want to change anything about the eux, or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102123	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102124	First of all, I didn't say anything about it causing anxiety. I said that it gave more work and I said that work is equal to money and that they are already under pressure. They need to find 2%, and that's a problem out there. I even gave examples of it. I said that now we have done, and I was involved in it myself, a huge piece of work in which we have spent many hours trying to figure out how to do this larger written task. Then you come from in here and say that it should not be called a major written task, now it should be called something else. This means that development work must be resumed, which is not necessarily an answer to what is stated in the Rambøll report. I also indicated...
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102201	I must ask Mrs Pernille Schnoor to keep to her speaking time. This is how it is. Thank you. There are no further comments. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Thank you! There are no more comments! Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102219	In the Radical Left we think that eux is an excellent youth education. Unfortunately, too many people do not know about the training, and that is really a pity. Together, therefore, we have a political task in raising awareness of training, but of course we also have an even better education if there are places that might need adjustments. And that's exactly what we're doing with this bill. An external evaluation of the eux training has indicated that there are indications that it is challenging to achieve the professional objectives of the upper secondary subjects in the eux courses, and on the basis of this evaluation we have discussed and agreed on a number of adjustments which require amendment of the law in a broad circle of the Danish Parliament's parties. We have among other things. agreed to increase teaching time and introduce a pool of 80 hours for each pupil and that the 80 hours should be used primarily for written training. We have agreed that a written test in Danish at A-level will be made mandatory, and we have agreed that the two existing projects, the exam project and major written tasks will be replaced by a larger coherent project. All in all, we want to increase the coherence and synergy of the individual eux cycle between vocational and upper secondary subjects, as well as to ensure that students receive more teaching time with teacher presence in the upper secondary subjects. Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102403	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102411	Thank you. I think that eux is the education of the future, and I think it is because it links the best from the world of high schools with the world of vocational training. When I think it is the education of the future, it is also because I think it will be a very popular education in the future. I think that for a great many of the young people who attend primary school today, one of the reasons why it has been the natural first choice for them to take the stx, that is to say the general high school, has been to postpone the final choice, that is to say, what should I spend my future on, how can I keep as many doors open as possible, how can I be sure that if I now find out that it is something else I want, I have equal opportunities. You could say that with this education, eux education, you create more opportunities than you, for example. will have with the general upper secondary school, you will have competences ranging from general upper secondary school to vocational education. So I think that, when young people become more aware of it, they will be the education of the future. I also believe that this will be the education of the future, because that is what we would very much like. We need skilled craftsmen through people with vocational training, but if, at the same time, you have competences from the general high school, I think you are even better equipped for the very changing labour market that will be in the future. A great deal has been said about the parts contained in the package here, and it is true that some changes have been agreed within the circle that has made the vocational training reform and the new eux education. Quite briefly, I would just like to say that some of the things that I think are good about this bill and why we support the bill, among other things. is that a business area and a business area project are now being introduced. As I hear it, and that is what can be estimated from it, and that is also one of the things I think there are in the consultation answers, there has not been the necessary synergy that should exist between the vocational subjects and the upper secondary subjects. With this, where you are creating a business area where there will be more multi-skilled courses that end up in a single project, I think we are more fulfilling that idea that the gymnasium and the vocational merge. So I think that makes sense. In relation to the question of teaching time and the period of study, it is, after all, a thought that we have not only had here, us who have made this agreement, but also in the new high school reform, that is to say, that you need to spend more time with the teacher or teacher when you are a student, and that is such a tough priority that not everyone agrees with, I know that, but I think it would be better for the pupils if the pupils have less time on their own and more time with the teacher. Finally, this package also includes making Danish A compulsory in the eux courses, and I think that is a good thing, because I think that it will help students to do this equality between the eux and the remaining Baccalaureates, where it is a requirement that you have Danish A. Then I think that strong writing will also be important in the future, including for young people taking an eux. So I think that is quite reasonable. So, overall, there are a lot of things that need to be done now with this education. It is good that there is such broad political support for it, because I believe, as I said, that it is the education of the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102752	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102759	Thank you. The purpose of the change here in L 82 is to make an attractive training offer that ensures even better eux courses so that more students will want to choose eux. Eux is a good opportunity for students who would like to combine vocational education with a secondary education, and I personally would like to see more elected eux. The evaluation of eux has shown that it can be difficult to realise the potential between the professionalism of upper secondary education and vocational training. We are trying to make that right here. We change the eux to provide greater professional coherence between the gymnasium element and the vocational subject, and therefore we propose a business area project and more teaching time. Finally, I have noted that the Education Association, DA, FTF and the Crafts Association consider that we should consider whether and how the labour test can be included in the business area project. If that is practicable, I also think it is a good proposal. With these words, the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102914	Thank you. Then it's the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201102922	I would like to start by thanking the parties supporting this bill, which will have an impact on the education and future of many young people. During the 8th and 9th classes, all school pupils must make an important choice about their future: should they take a vocational training course or rather choose high school? That choice depends on many factors: the parents, the comrades, the counselors at the school. Perhaps the choice is a little blind because young people do not know all the opportunities that actually exist. The Ministry of Education has just launched a campaign to spread the knowledge of eux and the fantastic opportunity to combine vocational training with a secondary education. A campaign is needed because far too few, both parents and students, know about the possibility of choosing an eux after primary school. And that's a shame, because with a hammer in one hand and a book in the other you are actually well equipped to step on into the world and conquer it. But this is not just a campaign, it must also be an attractive offer that we are offering to young people, and this bill means that eux education will be strengthened on a number of points which I will briefly outline. The draft law envisages that in the eux programmes there should be a business area and a business area project. The business area should strengthen the professional connection between the vocational subjects and the upper secondary subjects for the pupils in the selected eux programme and give the students an insight into the identity and diversity of the subjects. The business area project will consist of both a written answer and a corresponding oral test, corresponding to what was introduced for hhx and htx during the secondary school reform. The concepts of teaching time and immersion time were introduced for upper secondary education with the reform of secondary education. With the bill, we propose that the same concepts be introduced in the eux processes. And then there has to be more teaching time. The teaching time must be increased to about 1,675 hours, and a 80-hour pool for each student must be included in the teaching time. It's supposed to keep the students safe for hours with a teacher. It should also be possible for the Minister of Education to lay down rules on the ongoing evaluation by schools of pupils' professional benefits from teaching. The evaluation shall stress that there is a forward-looking formal evaluation of the academic benefits of the pupils and that the pupils are systematically involved in the evaluation. In addition, schools must draw up a curriculum for upper secondary education. The curriculum is intended to ensure the coherence of training courses and project courses in the field of industry, to create variation and progression in teaching and work forms, and to set objectives for learners' knowledge and knowledge. Finally, the draft law means that the test in writing in Danish at A level will be mandatory. The written test in Danish can help to strengthen the writing on eux in general. An eux is a strong alternative to high school, which is why I am very pleased with this bill, which helps to make education even more attractive. I would like to thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201103228	Thank you, Minister. No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201103243	The debate is open, and I think it is Mr. Mattias Tesfaye, draftsman of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201103302	The school doesn't just teach us how to count and write. It must also prepare us more broadly for life in a modern democratic society. Part of that formation is literary, another is scientific. It is also social formation, but part of the formation is also to be able to hammer a nail in a board or make spaghetti with meat sauce. With this bill, the educational readiness assessment, which is at the end of school hours, will change. The proposal should now also include the practical abilities of the pupils in assessing whether the pupils are ready to start a youth education programme. In the Social Democratic Party we basically think it is sensible, but we do not understand why the government, together with the Danish People's Party, has chosen to make this proposal alongside the discussions we have on how more students are getting ready for a youth education. A legal situation is now being established which cannot be put into practice. We will assess a lot of young people on their practical skills without being able to point out exactly how. After all, the assessment is not followed up with practical training during the school years in which the assessment is to be carried out. The bill describes the practical dimension as a cross-cutting perspective. I have read that wording many times, and I still do not understand what it means. However, we have a hope that the parties behind the reform of primary school will soon be able to agree on a number of changes in the school's oldest classes in order to qualify the course of education after the 9th and 10th classes. Here we then have a hope and an expectation of a more business-oriented and practical approach and thus also a basis for carrying out the assessment on the basis of a cross-cutting perspective on the practical dimension. So we have to negotiate the basis for implementing this bill after we adopt it. It is possible that it signals a little power of action from the government and draws a few quick headlines, but good for confidence in the general objectivity of the people's regime is not. The draft law also states that it is intended that more people should be able to be declared ready for training. We are in favour of this. In fact, we believe that, in general terms, we should move away from the term 'non-educational' and instead describe more precisely what young people are ready for. It could be high school. This could be vocational training. Or it could be both. Or it may be the new preparatory initial training that we have jointly agreed to start in the summer of 2019. Finally, I would like to say that I have held a meeting of the Danish Employers' Association, which is concerned about some wordings in the bill. They fear that the changes will really create an opportunity to circumvent the requirement for access to vocational training. They refer to page 6 of the comments, which states that pupils who are assessed practically strong but are not assessed socially and personally prepared to start vocational training should nevertheless have access to SOSU schools, commercial schools and technical schools. They fear increased opt-outs, falling satisfaction among companies and more young people in school practice. Their concerns are shared by the trade union movement. I myself have some doubts as to how many young people we are talking about today, how many of the young people are being declared not ready for training because of weak social and personal skills, but at the same time are really capable of repairing a moped. I'm afraid that's not so many. However, we intend to examine this during the committee procedure in order to clarify the concerns of employers and trade unions. Finally, although we are sceptical about the legislative proposal being tabled here, we think a little sloppy and, although there are concerns from the social partners, our starting point will be to vote in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201103650	Thank you. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201103659	It's a really good day today. We are changing the qualification assessment for primary school pupils so that it also has a practical dimension. In other words, it is not only necessary to look at the professional, social and personal conditions when assessing whether a student is ready for training, but also to look at the practical competences of the pupils in the future. This is an extremely important initiative which we in the Danish People's Party warmly support. This is an important change for several reasons: firstly, people are different and have different competences; a practical dimension allows for the recognition of those pupils who have strong practical skills. Secondly, there are certainly pupils who today do not know that they have strong practical skills and who, with a practical dimension, become aware that they also have qualities in this area; this creates a positive reflection on the choice of training. Thirdly, we need thousands of skilled workers, and we need more to take vocational training. Fourthly, a practical dimension of the training preparation assessment helps to raise the level of practice and strengthen its importance in primary school. Fifthly, it also talks about vocational training. So there are several good reasons for this, and I look forward very much to seeing the new dimension being put into practice. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill. We have all received an email yesterday from the LO and DA, who are concerned about a wording in the bill. As I choose to interpret it, they are concerned that what is in the draft law itself will now open up a barn door for young people who are not fully social and personal in place and who do not comply with it in relation to the qualification assessment, to be admitted to the vocational school. In the Danish People's Party we do not share this concern. We do not see it as a barn gate, nor do we think that the criteria that are otherwise needed to be changed in order to be admitted to vocational training should be changed. But we must also say that there must be an individual assessment in schools and that it must be an overall assessment of the individual pupil. And I cannot rule out the fact that there is a Rasmus or a Sofie out there who is super-sharp to practicality, it may even be that they are super talents for practicality, and that it may be estimated at school that the very fact that they are allowed to start vocational training is what makes them socially and personally lifted the last piece. I can't deny that. And that is why I think it is a good thing that there is this opening, which for me is not a barn gate, but a very small opening. But we also think, like the Social Democrat rapporteur, that it is very good that we can ask more about it in committee, so it is that we can all be confident that this is not a general violation of the very good requirements which are otherwise in relation to being admitted to vocational training.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104106	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104115	Thank you. Today we first treat L 85, which is intended to introduce a practical dimension in the assessment of whether or not our pupils in primary school are ready for education. As previous rapporteurs have also said, this makes today a very, very good day in Parliament. We in the Left are delighted that we can now finally ensure that the educational readiness assessment in primary schools is also based on the competences of all pupils; that pupils' practical skills and creativity are finally also recognised. Because we know that practical skills are needed. We know that the labour market is increasingly demanding labour with practical skills. And if we are to ensure that our companies have the manpower they want, then we need a change of attitude and we need to change things here from Christiansborg. We need to do away with the idea, which may have existed in some places, that academic skills are more important than practical skills, when our society really needs both. And by the fact that we are now going to assess students on their practical skills, we are actually also sending a strong signal to our youth that there is a need for practical skills and that it is worth taking a vocational training course. At the same time, we are also helping to challenge some of the pupils who have only considered upper secondary education, but who may be more willing to take up vocational training and do so in a very good way. That is why I can inform you that we are very happy to vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104321	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104330	As a starting point, in the Enhedslisten we have great sympathy for the idea of introducing some kind of practical dimension into the training preparation assessment. We believe that the vocational preparation assessment and guidance of pupils in primary and secondary schools, with changes in the legislation of recent years, have been drawn in a completely wrong direction, first in the context of the vocational training reform, which introduced stricter admission requirements for vocational training, and where there was a significant weakening of the entire vocational guidance system; then in the secondary school reform, where there was a tightening of the rules for the qualification assessment, which means that pupils seeking a 3-year upper secondary education must have an average of at least 5 in the final grades in order to meet the professional requirements for the assessment of educational qualifications. We do not think this has been a good thing, and we had therefore hoped that with a practical dimension in the training preparation assessment a step would be taken which would only slightly correct the entire training preparation assessment, but unfortunately we do not think this is the case with the present proposal. I think we can see from the hearing answers that have been received that the enthusiasm in the school world is small. It is true that most of the answers to the hearing, like this speech, begin by expressing satisfaction with the idea of a practical dimension, but the judgment on the specific proposal, on the other hand, seems to me to be relatively harsh. I have tried just to take a look at what is being presented, and although all the rapporteurs have read the answers to the hearings, I will try to sum up a little what the consultation parties say. The school management association fears that the law will be seen as an unnecessary and bureaucratic proposal which makes no sense in the serious work already done by the school in the field. The Danish Teachers' Association believes that the new practical dimension does not really contribute anything new to the current training readiness assessment. However, it involves extra work and more bureaucracy for teachers and UU counsellors. The same assessment comes from the National Association of 10th Class Schools in Denmark. The Danish Advisory Council expresses concern that the elementary school's courses in education do not provide sufficient basis for assessing pupils' practice internship and that the teachers here do not have real opportunities to give a reasoned assessment of the pupils. Evaluations may therefore be influenced by coincidences, estimates or comprehension of the students. It is a criticism which I noticed that the Social Democrat rapporteur also roamed in his speech. UU Denmark writes that it is difficult for the bill to see exactly what needs to be assessed, and especially by whom. It is not clear whether it is the school or the UU that is responsible for the assessment. The Association School and Parents are somewhat concerned about the assessment basis. The post-school association sees a great risk that the assessments are carried out on a very different basis from one pupil to another. That is how the criticism continues from the Hearing Party to the Hearing Party. The Council of Basic Vocational Education and Training, the REU, believes that the government should consider whether the timing of the bill is correct, also in the light of future adjustments in the area of education and training. After all, the consultation parties are not always right because they may sometimes have views that go in opposite directions, but I think that when you read through the consultation answers, you get the impression that throughout the school world, whether from the point of view of teachers, counsellors or managers, there is a massive criticism of the way in which the proposal has been drafted. Precisely because we are very strongly in favour of the introduction of a practical dimension, I think that we are giving it a very bad start by adopting this proposal. I do not wish to rule out the possibility that there may be changes in committee which will enable us, precisely because of our positive basic attitude to this, to change our view, but immediately we cannot support the proposal. I think it would be constructive if the government, in a dialogue with the rapporteurs, were to say: let us now wait and see what comes out of the work, in relation to changes in the school classes, and then let us start with a new legislative proposal which introduces a practical dimension. We are in favour of it, but we do not think this proposal is good enough. On the contrary, we do not believe that this will help the process. On the contrary, we believe that it will block a sensible process.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104818	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104822	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech. As Enhedslisten's rapporteur says, we have probably noticed a bit of the same in the criticism of this bill. It says on page 4 of the comments: "The detailed rules on the criteria for the practical dimension will, according to the proposal, be laid down in the Training Preparation Assessment Order...· So as to the doubts as to how this is actually to be realized, it says here that it will be laid down in a notice. If we can now get the government to be a little more precise in the committee procedure as to how this will work in practice, if we get to a situation where it seems that this can actually be realised in practice, will the Enhedslisten be prepared to support it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104908	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104910	I will certainly not rule that out. Our whole basic attitude is that we think it is sensible to introduce a practical dimension. When we cannot support the proposal, it is because there is the quite massive criticism from the whole school world that it is very difficult, from this point of view, to see on what basis an assessment should be made and to see that it really only adds more bureaucracy. If, during the committee process, it can be cleared up, I will not rule out the fact that we will be able to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104943	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201104953	Thank you for the floor. Bill L 85 proposes that when pupils in primary school are to be counseled on their educational choices, they should in future also have a practical dimension. This must be seen in the context of some imbalances that over the years have arisen in our system of upper secondary education. There are more and more people applying to stx, even in those situations where it is evident to everyone other than themselves and perhaps their parents that they do not have flair and interest in academic pursuits. On the other hand, in a few years' time the interest in vocational training has fallen from just under one third of a youth year to less than one fifth. These are some imbalances that cause a whole series of problems. In many universities, complaints are made about the fact that the new students starting in the first semester are too weakly based, purely professionally, and in the labour market they are concerned that bottlenecks and labour shortages will already occur in the relatively short term in the case of skilled workers. The introduction of a practical dimension to training guidance is a step towards correcting the overall imbalance that has arisen in youth education. Of course, I do not think it can stand alone. I believe that the steps we are taking here in the Danish Parliament must also be supported in the homes where it is important that parents do not talk about an educational snobbery which, to an unreasonable extent, speaks up and to an equally unreasonable extent speaks down vocational training. However, it is a form of value-added influence on the individual young people, whom I believe we as legislators should refrain from. On the other hand, it is important that we ensure that broad and balanced guidance is given in the primary school and this step is taken with Bill No. L 85. That is why, of course, we support the proposal in the Liberal Alliance. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201105206	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs. Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201105216	When I went to school, we had sleds, hand jobs, housework, and there was an opportunity to choose metal sleds, and in the oldest classes one could choose motor science etc. as an elective subject. The positive thing about this proposal is that there will be more focus on the crafts and practical parts of school, and that we will have the opportunity to break the monopoly on prestige that high schools have long sat on. It shouldn't be a matter of course that you go to high school if you do well in school. The student who has a high grade average can walk around with a dream of becoming an electrician and have the practical skills that make it possible. Talent is more than just academic skills. The way the primary school is built up today is very much preparing for high school. The craftsmanship, practice and creative dimension should be a common thread throughout the primary school. We want more focus to be placed on food knowledge, craftsmanship, design, visual arts, entrepreneurship, etc. Today we have training programmes where students can specialise in global, natural, etc., but why do we not have training courses where the student can specialise in crafts, entrepreneurship or service? I hope we can get more focus on that. In the alternative, we believe that the negative aspect of this proposal is that it is possible to assess non-educational preparation. To put it mildly, we find this an unfortunate way to help and motivate students to find their right shelf. It is unfortunate because it may seem stigmatizing that you can divide children into two teams of A and B teams, and this stems from a thinking that does not take into account individual differences, talent and their life phases. Instead, a process should be established, a positive process in which the learner is more involved and where a supervisor supports and advises the learner from a more holistic perspective. On the basis of what I have said now, we are positive about the elements of this proposal, but we will wait for the committee before deciding whether we can vote in favour or against the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201105453	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201105502	In fact, the Radical Left's elementary school rapporteur should stand on the platform for this bill, but I have the honour to say that the Radical Left takes a positive view of the proposal to introduce a practical dimension into the training preparation assessment. However, I should say hello from Marianne Jelved and say that she is actually really sorry that she was not invited over to the Minister of Education for a cup of coffee and for a discussion of this particular bill. Because there is no doubt about this, and I think the Minister knows very well that we in the Radical Left are very concerned that more young people are choosing vocational training and that we would very much like to discuss what we can do in primary school for more people to be aware of and more people to get more knowledge of vocational training. Marianne Jelved sends her greetings, saying that she would very much like to be part of future discussions on whether more action should be taken in primary school. However, as I said, we in the Radical Left are, as a starting point, in favour of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201105616	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Jacob Mark, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201105625	Thank you. I was somewhat puzzled when I was able to see in the press a few months ago that the government and the Danish People's Party had so easily decided that it would now be a practical education assessment, and so I have thought about how much I should say about it, because one will quickly sound a little bitter, but in reality I just need to say that I think it has been a pity for our public schools, for our students that they did not do the work thoroughly, that they did not sit down across the Folketing and discussed how we could achieve this, but instead they needed a quick press report and so decided that now there was a majority for this. I think that this has been a bad process, and I also think that the process is contagious in the legislative proposal that is there today and in the consultation answers that lie in the legislative proposal, because the idea and that is what I hear all the parties say is really good: to make what you measure broader when you measure our primary school pupils. They say that there can be both more intelligence and there can be more ways to go and also, as Mrs Marlene Harpsøe said, to make it visible that the general high school is not the only way and also to make it clear to the students that, although you may not be the best in the world for some of those who are a little more general gymnasium subjects, you still have a lot to do in the education sector too. That is why I am also sorry about the process that was going on, and that is why I am also sorry that we have not taken more time and waited a moment, or what we are saying, to have the final legislative proposal put in place. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj has read out some of the things that appear in the hearings: the REU criticises the timing; it is a bureaucratic bill that is hard to understand; it does not contribute anything new, some say; some have doubts about who should make the assessment; and most importantly, some ask what the hell it is we have to measure on. What are we supposed to measure when we have to make the practical assessment? That's what's so crazy about this. In the near future, we will be in the public school conciliation circle discussing how to make primary school more practical, how many things are at stake. Should you upgrade or upgrade or increase the priority of the practical subjects? You have to make practical training lines. I have seen the Minister suggesting this. Some will also discuss this, for example, how we can manage teacher training and ensure that there is more focus on the practical subjects. There are many things you can do for our primary school to strengthen practice. When you have done the things that I hope we will agree on very soon, it would have been obvious to say: Well, now we have some practical elements in primary school, we have strengthened practice and said that it is just as important; and then let us make the educational readiness assessment wider, because now we have something that we can measure. Now you do the reverse process where you first say that now you measure, but you don't really know what to measure. I think that's too bad. Having said that, there is going to be a process now when we are going to discuss these measures in primary school and where I hope we can reach an agreement. There will be a process now to discuss what it is that should be in the announcement and how this will become a reality. There I hope that the bill can be made clearer, that some guidelines can be sent in the announcement to the primary school and to the counsellors of youth education who can understand. We are in favour of the proposal. We're positive about the idea. We are also voting in favour of the legislative proposal because we basically think it is a good idea, but please, where I think it could have been done much smarter and much clearer, and I think that we could have gathered broad support from the whole sector if the process had been taken a little more seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110029	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110035	With the bill here we align the assessment of the practical competences with the other dimensions on which we assess whether the students are ready for training. In this way, we signal that the practical competences are also competences. The Folkeskole is not just a step towards a university education... the Folkeskole must be for everyone. It is important that pupils who are best at practice do not leave primary school with a feeling that society cannot use them. On the contrary, they must have the feeling that we, as a society, appreciate what they can do, and therefore the Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110126	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110134	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the parties which support this bill, which helps to appreciate the practical skills of young people. With the proposal, all the talents and knowledge of the young person will be at stake in the assessment of qualifications, not just the narrowly written ones. I am sure that the practical dimension of the educational preparation assessment will, in everyday speech, only help to give a very large number of pupils a new view of their educational opportunities. 74 per cent Of all school pupils looking towards high school after finishing school, you might ask yourself whether the high school is the right choice for all of them and whether they have been well enough prepared to make the right choice of youth education. There is a bias, and students with smart hands must meet in primary school with just as targeted education as the more academic students. Some structural changes need to be made if we want to strengthen the practical dimension of primary school. All students in the eighth grade have an UPV which evaluates the academic, social and personal qualifications of the students in order to begin a youth education course. The current UPV works well, and in any case academic prerequisites must be present, regardless of whether the young person chooses upper secondary education or vocational training. Many vocational training courses make high demands on academic skills with good reason, but the practical skills of the students have been too little so far. Therefore, the government, together with DF, has concluded an agreement to extend the UPV with a practical dimension, so that the students will in future also be assessed in their practical skills. This bill is a good step on the way to achieving a better balance between the various academics in the primary school. But I would also like to point out that we should not look black and white on it, practice and legibility are not opposites. Practice is not only about being able to use hammers and angle grinders, practice is also about being inventive and being able to translate methods and theories into concrete products. In addition, there are various cross-cutting topics, work experience and guidance activities where the learner's practical conditions can be observed. Vocational training should not be regarded as something one chooses because one does not have sufficient academic skills to attend high school. Vocational training is and should be an active option for all those pupils who have both their hands and their heads screwed on well. And when students in primary school are also assessed by their practical abilities, it will of course make more aware that vocational training is also an opportunity for the academically skilled. It follows from the draft law that, in very specific cases where a student does not have the necessary social or personal qualifications, which is why the school provides a negative UPV, the Youth Education Guide will be able to change the assessment from non-educational to educational preparation if the pupil has a high level of practice. This does not in any way mean that personal or social competences are undermined, but we must face up to the fact that there are students who, for one reason or another, are unable to keep up the spirit of education and who, therefore, are late or skipping school. In the old days, such a one became called school tired. But in some cases such a student can actually be quite skilled at a particular craft, and when he or she changes the environment and for example. In this context, it is important to stress the importance of vocational training for young people and to ensure that they are able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the new technologies and the opportunities offered by the new technologies. We have taken this into account in the draft law. I expect there to be very few pupils for whom it would be obvious to change their UPV. But for the few pupils it is expected to be about, this can have a major impact on their future. Finally, I would like to point out that I have started discussions with the public school circle to increase the focus on the practical skills of pupils in education. Thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today, and I look forward to any questions that may arise during the committee reading. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110529	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110533	Thank you. The bill is about amending Section 2 of the Guidance Act, which states that we are now assessing young people's professional, personal and social conditions in order to be able to complete a youth education programme. The academics I can easily figure out how to be assessed; there is a range of subjects, and this can be assessed on the basis of the student's efforts in the subjects. In relation to the personal and social conditions, what they write is a cross-cutting assessment, so it must be an assessment across the subjects of how they behave socially and personally. I can see, too, that you can make an assessment of that. I just find it difficult to see how to make an assessment of the pupils' practical abilities, as the Minister says, by making a cross-cutting assessment of their efforts in Danish, mathematics, and what else is of academic subjects.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110623	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110625	As I said, this is a practical assessment of the elements of the existing subjects to be included in the UPV. It can be done. We already have a number of practical skills that exist in the subjects as an integral part of the subjects, and these are the ones which have been set up here to assess. And then, of course, we have started discussions in the public school circle in order to strengthen the practical elements of training. I very much hope we can reach agreement on this, because it is clear that it will be interesting to build on the decision we are making today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110708	Sir. Mattias Tesfaye.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110709	Thank you. The minister says, for example: can involve how the learner has worked in the occupational aspect, which is of course voluntary, and how the learner in practical electives has worked, but it is not certain that there is a practical elective subject and how the practical dimension in the academic subjects is used, but it is also voluntary. So does this mean that we must politically move towards making it compulsory to have a practical dimension in training, that is to say compulsory professional practice, compulsory practical electives or compulsory practical elements of the academic subjects in the course of the course?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110753	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110754	There are practical dimensions in the subjects as they stand today, and they are the ones to which this bill relates. I cannot pre-empt the debates from this Parliament's platform, but it would be interesting to think about elements in education which strengthen the practice of schooling, and I have reported this out clearly in the press a relatively long time ago that I am interested in this, and we will have to discuss this in the public school circle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110827	Thank you, Minister. There are no more comments and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110847	The debate is open. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201110910	This bill is the result of the trialogue negotiations to get adult and continuing education back on track. And I would like to start by commending the Danish Employers' Association and the LO for getting together and giving impetus to adult and continuing education, and this is especially in relation to strengthening vocationally oriented adult and further education. In recent years we have seen a huge fall in AMU education. Since 2008-2009 it has occurred over a halving. And why is that? I ask. We are faced with employers who say they lack skilled labour, and they say so, while continuing training is falling sharply. That is why it is time to get on with the upgrading of the workforce that goes without a job, because they do not have the skills needed to move forward in the labour market, so that we do not have to take so many Eastern workers here to Denmark to cope with the demand for labour. But it is not only those who lack a job that need to be retrained. It is also those who are in work today who need to think about continuing training and more competences. Today, the labour market is constantly changing. We see the entry of robots into the labour market, and there are new technologies and new ways of producing in order to cope with competition. In general, the new technology will go much, much stronger than we have ever seen. That is why I am very pleased that an agreement has now been drawn up that will bring the whole area a better economy and that we will have a look at the offer in the field of AMU and continuing training. So there is an entrance where it will be easier for companies and for employees to find information on opportunities for continuing training and courses as well as registration and AMU allowances. And it must be a user-friendly system and not as it is today. The prices for schools are being raised and more money is being set aside for a quality boost. The agreement also provides for more flexible provision of AMU courses, which will provide a better opportunity to adapt the AMUcus to the individual company and to try with freer use of guest teachers at the company. Money has also been set aside to give unskilled and skilled people the opportunity, on their own initiative, to continue training in leisure time. Money has also been added to strengthen basic skills such as reading, writing and arithmetic. The internship prize rises from DKK 15,000. to 25,000 DKK, and I hope that this will, of course, provide more internships, just as it is very good that the VEU and FVU allowances will be increased from 80%. 100 per cent. of the highest daily allowance rate for participation in a course. For a great many of these people who take part in continuing training, have established family and have monthly expenses. This agreement must kick off further training again, and it is also time. I think it is the eleventh hour that we are getting started, and here employers have a major role to play to send their employees on continuing training, so that they have the employees needed in the new challenges that companies are going to face in the future. It is also the employers who must help to tell us what kind of training it is that needs to be developed for the labour market of the future. I regard this as the first step in the right direction towards a completely different adult and continuing education system in the future. If you look at how much money we spend on education in Denmark, you can see that we spend 97%. of all the billions spent on basic education, that is to say, primary, secondary and higher education. So we only use 3%. in adult and continuing training, and I see that percentage rising in the future if we are to be able to keep up with developments. We will also see a completely different education system in the field of adult and continuing education, at least when I look into my crystal ball. I will conclude by saying that the money we are now adding is about the money that the bourgeois government saved in this area in the recovery package 2010. So, fortunately, the government has become wiser with much, very much help from the social partners, and that is why we agree with the draft law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201111402	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201111416	The draft law we are discussing here is a partial implementation of the tripartite agreement on strengthened and more flexible adult, continuing training from October 2017. The aim of the tripartite agreement is a targeted and more flexible adult, continuing training effort of high quality. And that is exactly the impression that we in the Danish People's Party are left with when we read the tripartite agreement. With the bill here, which is, of course, a partial implementation of the agreement, we are making, among other things. the following changes: The agreed internship bonus is increased to 25,000 DKK. per internship student. Then there are employers' training contributions reduced to the full or partial financing of compensation, etc. by participation in adult and continuing vocational training. It is also the case that the rates of the VEU allowance are increased, and also the rates of State Adult Training Support are increased for students of preparatory adult and dyslexic education for adults. In the Danish People's Party, we very much welcome the fact that the parties have reached agreement on an agreement to ensure a much more flexible VEU system. It is very important that more people are trained and trained. This is important for themselves, in other words for workers, but it is also very important for companies, and it is important for Denmark. That is why our system in this area must also be designed in a way that makes it attractive to both workers and employers. In the Danish People's Party, as I said, we are very positive about the agreement reached between the government and the social partners. We believe that the tripartite agreement will ensure that much more people take adult, continuing training and, of course, on that basis, we can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201111644	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201111654	Today, we are dealing first with a legislative proposal that will help to ensure more targeted and flexible adult, continuing training. That is what we call the VEU system on a daily basis. Large parts of the bill are based on the tripartite agreement concluded at the end of October here in 2017. And the agreement that came into being is an agreement that I can actually say I can be proud of on behalf of both the social partners and the government. Because even though the VEU system is in many ways good today, we, together with the social partners, have come to the conclusion that there is a need for change. And many of the elements included in the agreement have also been described by previous rapporteurs here today, among others. increased internship bonus, but also a better focus in relation to dyslexic education. I am also pleased that these parts are part of the agreement. There is a need for both companies and employees to experience a more relevant and also more accessible training offer, i.e.: a system which matches the needs of the labour market and which also takes into account the everyday life of people. With this bill, we will help to make training more attractive to those who need both adult and adult training. And that's what we need. We're going to give these people an extra push in the right direction. Because if we want a workforce that can keep up with the rapid developments that are also taking place in the labour market, then we need a good and flexible VEU system. Danish companies and employees must focus on ongoing competence development, and it is the case that almost day by day you can see how fast the development is going. So I am also pleased that the agreement will focus more on digitalisation opportunities and, for that matter, also new business models in relation to communication in other languages. And I think we all have to recognise that we need to be adaptable; we need to keep up with the developments that are taking place out there. We need this, and Denmark needs it to continue to be on the growth track. For skilled workers, Denmark is simply fundamental to ensuring growth and development in the whole country. And on that basis, I can say that the Left will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201111952	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Sir. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112001	The proposal is, after all, the implementation of the tripartite agreement of October this year on strengthened and more flexible continuing training. In the view of the Enhedslisten, these are a number of proposals which are moving in the right direction. The agreement increases the internship bonus to a fixed amount of 25,000 DKK, which we hope will be an additional incentive for the establishment of more internship places. We also think it is a good thing to increase the VEU allowance and the SVT rates for the participants in the FVD and in the vocabulary for adults, i.e. to increase it from the current 80 to 100 per cent. of the maximum daily allowance rate. It has had a very significant negative impact on the whole demand for continuing training that back in 2010 the compensation from the then 100 per cent was reduced. to the 80% where we are now, so I would like to say that it is quite reasonable that the tripartite agreement has reached the conclusion that the compensation should be returned to the 100%. Some of those present, or perhaps only one, may remember that we had labour market training at the time when they received 125 per cent. I would like to say that it is not incredibly ambitious that we should now reach 100%, and I think that setting a higher remuneration which made it particularly economically attractive to retrain would be very sensible. But that does not change the fact that we are taking a step in the right direction here. On the other hand, I would also like to say that, given that there is now a recognition of the need for a higher remuneration in order to increase demand for continuing training, I do not understand that the increases have been made time-limited. I am surprised that, if nothing else is legislated for, after 2021, we will return to a state where we are back at the rates of the recovery package in 2010. I hope it doesn't get there. After all, there is a long time before the end of 2021, and hopefully a majority will be formed before then in order to maintain at least the rate now set. I have been very concerned to read the comments that have come from the LO about the date of entry into force of the compensation increases at SFU in relation to dyslexic education and the FVU, but I understand from the comments in the Ministry's consultation note that work is being done on life loose to ensure that this postponement of entry into force until 1 July 2018 is not going to hit these areas. I think it is incredibly important, in relation to the FVD and dyslexic education, to speed up the work so that the improved compensation can take effect at the end of the year in both areas as well. All in all, I think the bill could have gone much further. I am in favour of the implementation of the tripartite agreement, so the criticism must be directed more towards the government not trying to create more dynamism in the tripartite agreement and thus further increase the compensation. But now that what is agreed in the tripartite agreement has been agreed, it makes sense for us to have it transposed into the legislation, and Enhedslisten can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112406	Thanks to Enhedslisten. Sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112415	Thank you. Bill L 107 implements the tripartite agreement on improving adult and continuing training concluded on 29 October this year. It was a really happy deal. Firstly, the possibility of lifelong learning is, in general, very important, but, secondly, it is particularly important to make it possible to develop continuously in line with the labour market with which you are associated. With the bill it is proposed to increase the internship bonus to a fixed amount of 25,000 DKK. It is proposed to make the VEU contribution activity-dependent. It is being proposed to increase the VEU allowance not enough, I understand from the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, but yet the Karen requirements are being relaxed, and then fidelity with the VEU allowance is being punished more severely. That is very sensible and something that could be agreed between the three parties, but when I read the bill, I cannot help thinking that it looks like an extremely complex design design for a very, very complicated machine. But I'm safe anyway. There are a lot of good people who have put a lot of work into designing this machine, and it's a job they should be thanked for, because it's a necessary job that's been done. I am sure that with L 107 we will greatly improve adult and continuing training, and that is why we naturally support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112603	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance. Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112612	Thank you. In the alternative, we believe that the whole system of adult and continuing vocational training is far too bureaucratic and should in fact be rethought from scratch. We would like a system for those citizens who actually need it. It is a system based on supporting, inspiring and helping as needed; it is a system based on trust and simple and easy to use. The system must not exist for itself, nor must it be so complicated that it requires special training to be able to use it at all. So in many ways, it's very complex. Here, like some steps are taken in the right direction. We would have liked it to have been even more plunged into the air to rethink it and to get rid of some of the necessary bureaucracy that is now coming because it is as complex as it is. There is in particular a passage that is the one about punishment as we actually are, because it is as complex as it is, like it was so not included in the bill, because it simply takes too much to get to grips with all these rules. That is why we think that when you have such a complex system, you should also help and trust the citizens who have to use it and not work with these criminal things in it. But, as I said, we think it is right, right and proper. Several people have already explained what it contains, including tripartite agreements, etc. That is why, of course, we support the proposal, but we have these obs's for it. There are also some uncertainties about the funding that will be raised in the committee's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112758	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112807	For the Radical Left, it is crucial that all people in Denmark have access to education and training, and we must do everything we can politically to create the framework that allows people to retrain. We therefore believe that the tripartite agreement, of which this draft law is an implementation, contains some good measures that are moving in the right direction. That is why, of course, we support the draft law. I will not go through all the elements, but just highlight a few. We think it is very good that we should now set up a single entrance to the continuing training system, which both employers and workers can use to register for courses and apply for compensation. It must never be the case that it gets so hasty to get an overview of the rules and sign up that people do not want it or have so much difficulty that they completely drop applying for continuing education. We also think it is good that we increase the VEU allowance from 80 to 100 per cent. (ii) the maximum rate of unemployment benefit, so that it is not because of economics that you do not retrain. However, as I said, all steps towards more people being given the opportunity to retrain are very good, both for the individual and for Denmark, and therefore, as I said, we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112944	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jacob Mark as rapporteur for the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201112952	Thank you. It is the implementation of the tripartite agreement that we are discussing today. I think it is a good thing that there has been a tripartite agreement and I commend those who have landed it. I'm sure it's been hard work. The agreement addresses at least two important issues for our society, which is one of the reasons why we support this bill. The first is the lack of internships. This is a problem that we must resolve, both for the sake of our young people and also for the sake of society. The intention is to increase the internship bonus, and I believe that this will mean that there will be more internships in the future. In addition, I also believe that just making a tripartite agreement, which together, both employers and workers, and recognising that this is an important challenge, will mean that there will be more internships. The second important issue it addresses is that we will need more skilled labour and that we will need to raise some of the people who are in a changing labour market, in other words to ensure that they can have an upskill so that they can be included in the new modern labour market. I saw yesterday that the Prime Minister had been driving a car without driver and was very impressed by it, and I really think that the story and the fact that our Prime Minister has been driving a driverless car is a very good picture of what we are facing, namely that there are a number of people who have been used to contesting jobs that may not be there in the future or that will be completely changed. And that calls for us to have strong opportunities for continuing training in the future. I think it is very good about the increased rate for both the VEU allowance and the SFU. I was in the debate yesterday and I think it should be the last thing I want to say, because so much has been said about this bill and the tripartite agreement where we discussed what is actually the most important challenge that Denmark faces. Some people thought it was that we had too much tax pressure. Some felt that the biggest challenge was that the companies did not have sufficient framework conditions, precisely because of the tax. I am now actually quite convinced that one of the greatest challenges we face is that we have a lot of people who need to be lifted. Either they are already outside the labour market and need to talk about it, for example. through upgrading, or they are already in the labour market, but will need to be lifted in the future when the labour market changes completely. I believe that an investment in continuing training comes back many times, which is why I think this is just the beginning. I believe that we are going to see an educational system that becomes more flexible, where you can jump in and out; where, when you have taken an education, it is not given that your education will look like this for the rest of your life. And I believe that this will affect both our upper secondary education, our higher education and also our continuing training system. There's more you could do than just do in this tripartite agreement. I totally agree with that, but nevertheless I think it's a good start.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201113312	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. The next is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201113321	Thank you. I am pleased that the government and the social partners have managed to agree on a tripartite agreement that strengthens the adult and continuing education system. The labour market calls for skilled labour, and the adult and continuing training system plays a part in this. It is important to ensure an up-to-date adult and continuing education system, and we are giving a significant boost to adult and continuing education. With the bill here, we are implementing part of the tripartite agreement, and there are several good things in the agreement. I don't want to go into it all, but among other things. We raise the internship bonus to 25,000 DKK. per training and ensuring that employers actually receive it if they meet the requirements. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201113413	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. And then I give the floor to the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201113420	I would like to start by thanking the parties supporting this bill, which, for my part, is the first concrete implementation of the tripartite agreement concluded by the government and the social partners in October of this year. The tripartite agreement strengthens and modernises the field of adult and continuing training in Denmark, and this is urgently needed, because we need a flexible continuing training market in Denmark, not only for the sake of society, not only for the sake of companies, but indeed also for the sake of individual Danes. We must ensure that all Danes are able to do well in a world that quickly changes both the unskilled and those with a short or longer education. This bill, as I said, is the first part of the implementation in the Ministry of Education's area of the tripartite agreement of October this year, and in spring 2018 follows a further bill for the implementation of the agreement. The draft law consists of a number of different measures which I can briefly outline. Firstly, we propose to increase the work experience bonus that has already been adopted. The bonus will be increased to a fixed amount of 25,000 DKK. per internship student. The aim of this is to give companies a greater incentive to take more pupils into practical training. Secondly, the VEU contribution becomes activity-dependent. This means that the future will have to be adapted by law from year to year in order to balance expenditure and revenue over time. In the event of an increase in activity, the contribution will have to be increased and, in the event of a fall in activity, the contribution will have to be reduced. Thirdly, we propose to increase the rates of the VEU allowance and the SFU for participation in the FVU and the OBU for adults from 80%. 100 per cent. of the maximum daily allowance rate. Fourthly, we are relaxing the so-called Karen requirement. In fact, we provide for the possibility of derogating from the requirement of 14 days' employment with the same employer prior to the start of the training. This will apply to employees who are sent home because of the weather and where it is regulated in their agreements and accepted in the cashier's law. This will take the form of drawing up a positive list of courses which are particularly relevant to these companies and industries. Fifthly, we are extending the penalty clause in the compensation law. Enlargement means that, in future, a fine or more severe penalty can be imposed if one does not state that one's relationship has changed in the time after one has applied for VEU compensation. Last but not least, on the basis of a good and constructive dialogue with the social partners in the context of the consultation on the legislative proposal, I would also like to table some amendments. But I will come back to that later. I would like to thank you for the discussions we have had in this Chamber today. Continuing training is important for Denmark, but first of all it is important for each of the Danes who now receive a stronger and more flexible offer. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201113711	There are no brief comments, so I would like to thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201113734	The debate is open, and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr Seligman. Nick Hækkerup as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201113747	Thank you. The government chooses some points in its statement on its foreign and security policy strategy, and the natural thing here is of course to comment on them and then to worry a little about what is not in it. The first is migration, instability and terrorism. To put it bluntly, the current asylum system, which we have, is untenable. It's not fair. It's inhumane, and it's too expensive. We have to work on that. Social democracy wants us to work towards setting up reception centres closer to the conflict zones, where the protection needs of migrants can be clarified, and then we want much more focus on the causes of irregular migration. The next point in the statement is Russia. It can well be said that Russia has rediscovered the great-power ambition and is putting it through in what Russia sees as its own sphere of interest, that is, the thinking that was actually put through in the wake of the Second World War. We've seen it in Ukraine. We have seen it in Crimea, Georgia, Moldova, and we have seen it very much in the Baltic region with armaments, with aggressiveness, with harsh rhetoric, and we have felt it with the involvement of the West in our democratic elections. This is important for our defence policy. In fact, it is of particular importance that we place Danish soldiers in the Baltic States. For the Social Democrats, NATO is the cornerstone of our Danish security structure and, in the view of the Social Democrats, Denmark must ensure that it is a credible, effective and ready partner in NATO. We have looked with some concern at the government's disagreement with itself in the analysis of Russia: on the one hand, the Minister for Defence, who is tough and sharp in his attitude to Russia, and on the other hand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is more soft and doubtful. Mostly we have seen it in connection with the otherwise relevant chronicle, which was written by the Danish ambassador in Moscow. Just as far as Russia is concerned, it would be a good thing if the government's line were uniform and clear. The European Union is the third point. In other words, it must be said that the European Union has found it difficult to provide appropriate responses to the migration crisis and, moreover, advocated an economic policy that has spoken to the elite and not adequately protected those who needed help when the financial crisis swept the world, which is, I believe, the main reason why the European Union has ended up in a crisis of legitimacy. I just think that we should stick to the fact that the truth is that Danish prosperity and prosperity are on the shoulders of opportunities to trade with other countries and that Danish jobs exist for thousands because we are part of the European Union. For the Social Democrats, the answer lies in the fact that the European Union must focus on the problems that concern what is usually called ordinary people, i.e. those who populate Europe, for example. • to use resources to combat tax havens, to protect the EU's external borders effectively; otherwise, it will not be possible to have open internal borders; • that freedom of movement must be followed by protection against social dumping, wage dumping and unfair competition. At some point we are going to be in continuation of Brexit when it falls into place. You can choose different paths in this context. It can be said that when the UK then leaves the EU, we must continue with an EU in the way that we know. It may also be said that this may give rise to reflection on how the European Union should function in the future. One of the first questions that arose is, of course, whether we should continue to maintain the budget currently available to the European Union and allow countries to pay more into the budget, or should we say that we will cut the budget in proportion to the payments made so far by the British? The question will also be brought up to date by the number of Members of the European Parliament. Should the European Parliament be reduced by the number of Members that the British have had, or how should it be dealt with? It is our view that we must do the last thing, so that we do not have to stand in a place where we say: now the British have gone out, then we have to lift the budget and all of them pay more, allocate the number of British MEPs' seats to the other countries. This is the kind of discussion that we are going to have, and where it is important, I think that we on the Danish side are reasonably clear as to where we stand. The fourth point is also relevant, as are the others, namely globalisation. We must note here, and this is also the case in the report, that globalisation has led to an increase in global prosperity over the last 30 years. However, it must also be noted that the gains are not quite as sharp as they have been mentioned. This is particularly true of the Western world. Even in Denmark, it is actually the case that from the mid-1990s until 2008 the richest have 10 per cent. of the population experienced a three times greater increase in income than the middle class. In fact, in many countries, for the first time in 200 years, the prospect is that there is a social group, the lower middle class, which has the prospect of their children having a standard of living that is lower than their own, which gives rise to considerable concern, and which, I believe, is one of the reasons why we see the political polarisation that we are currently seeing in the Western world, that is to say that we are pulling towards the political right and left wings. And I guess that's because globalisation has allowed market forces to buzz out there. We in the Social Democratic Party believe in market forces as an effective means of changing society, but as a means and not an end. That is why we also need, for example. trade agreements which shield and fence market forces where, for example, consumer protection, the environment, workers' rights, as in the case of the US Trade Agreement with Canada, CETA, and the forthcoming agreement between the EU and Japan. I have to leave the Arctic alone, taking into account time. I think what the government has chosen to write about the Arctic is sensible and relevant. Then there's that outside the statement. In fact, we are in a situation where since World War II the United States has been Denmark's most important ally. The United States has been because the United States has led the development and guarantee of what we call the free world. The free world, which was originally a counter-position to the Soviet Union, but which has developed standards and values of democracy as a form of government, respect for human rights, prosperity through trade between countries, a world which stands on the law and the law and not the law of the strongest or the most brutal, on international agreements, on cooperation, such as the Soviet Union. The United Nations, the WTO and NATO, etc. These are precisely the standards and values on which our Western democracies are broadly based and which have provided security and security and which have brought peace. These are the values and standards that have led to a billion people being lifted out of poverty, that more and more children in the world are being educated, that there is a sense of shared responsibility for our planet, and not least that the world has been spared devastating wars. It is not an exaggeration to say that exactly the world order is under pressure now, among other things. Because the United States is withdrawing from its traditional role, as is seen in the context of the Paris climate agreement, for example, in the context of trade agreements, and when we see the role that the United States has taken on itself to be the only superpower to be the world's policeman. And, on the other hand, China is emerging, not least with the huge Belt and Road initiative, which, in terms of size and extent, bears comparison with the American Marshall Aid after the Second World War. God knows it has a different content, but it's just a big player entering the room that the Americans unfortunately seem to be stepping out of. Exactly that and exactly that development is potentially of huge importance to how the world is going to look forward. And it is therefore relevant that we in Denmark, together with like-minded countries, should relate to what we do and how we ensure that the free world world order is not left behind and replaced by something that we do not want. Unfortunately, we also benefit from this discussion after the statement. But let this be my and the Social Democrats' comments on the government's foreign and security policy strategy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114735	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114741	Thank you. What we are discussing today is the foreign policy and security policy strategy. It is not Europe in particular, it is the whole world, and it is both soft and hard safety and so on. I am therefore surprised that, following on from the statement, the Socialist rapporteur really does not mention organisations such as the Council of Europe, does not mention organisations such as the OSCE, nor does he mention organisations such as the United Nations. That is why I just want to hear: what role do the three organisations play in the Social Democrats' bid for a security policy and foreign policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114827	That is what I was trying to say at the end of the day. Søren Søndergaard. It was, in fact, that the world order that we must advocate and stand guard over, among other things. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, international cooperation agreements are in place, and I mentioned the United Nations, the WTO and NATO in a nutshell, but we might as well have mentioned the organisations that the questioner also mentions. The international organisations are extremely important for a small country like Denmark. And why are they? They are because otherwise we will end up precisely in the situation that it is the large countries that will put their power through.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114909	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114910	I am glad that the Social Democratic Party believes that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. The Council of Europe is extremely important. But what is the Social Democrats' bid for what we do? The reality is that those we have left to be the big payers to the Council of Europe are Russia, that is Turkey. They have now announced that they will no longer pay. The Council of Europe stands on the brink of bankruptcy, I would say. That system is in deep crisis because among other things. Denmark has pulled out more and more and is concentrating on the European Union. The only thing we can contribute is how to restrict human rights and set a limit on what needs to be dealt with. What is the Social Democracy's idea of how the Council of Europe will play the role that Social Democracy wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114956	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201114958	In fact, I believe that, even when it comes to the Council of Europe, it is one of the organisations that is relevant and right, but where, as the rapporteur also says, there is a need, in our view, to stick to how we ensure the continued relevance of the organisation, that time does not run the risk of running out of it, that there is no development that has been carried, not by political desires, but by other desires, thereby pushing the organisation the wrong way. I believe that the most important thing is Denmark's continued strong commitment to the Council of Europe, also in line with the other international organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115037	The next question is Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115040	Thank you. This is, of course, a very broad debate, and many things could be tackled, but I would like to take up the debate where the previous one left off, because Denmark currently holds the chair of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, which is why it is extremely relevant what we actually think about these things in the Parliamentary Assembly. And when we discuss whether the Council of Europe is relevant, in other words whether this institution, which is intended to safeguard human rights and the rule of law in Europe, is relevant, I have to say that when I look at Putin in Russia, at Erdogan in Turkey and at others such as Turkey, I have to say that I look at Putin in Russia, at Erdogan in Turkey and at others. Orbán in Hungary, I think I am being strongly stressed that, in order to strengthen human rights, there really is a need to increase the pressure on these growing authoritarian regimes. That is why I would like to hear: what is the position of the Social Democratic Party that a few months ago in Jyllands-Posten one could read that the Danish Foreign Minister had been in Hungary and, together with the Hungarian Government, would work to restrict the initiatives of the Court of Human Rights in relation to the Member States?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115148	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115149	It is of course no secret that we think that there is reason to take a critical look at the activist line taken by the court, that is to say that judgments have been handed down which we do not believe have sufficient political legitimacy, and that a court, moreover, applies to this court, that is to say, to other courts. In our view, we should keep within the legal mandate that it has and not be politically creative itself. Otherwise, we run the risk that the court will move some developments towards something that does not have democratic legitimacy and that at some point this will lead to a distancing of the court, which will thereby undermine what it is really there for, namely ensuring respect for human rights. It is as great a mistake as the activist judgment, which was the policy of the European Court of Justice as it was then called, but which is now called the European Court of Justice. So activist courts: no thank you! Let us stick to the fact that politics is what politicians do because politicians have the political mandate. The court hasn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115257	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115259	Yes, it could be a long debate. I would, for example, like: I believe that if we do not develop the interpretation of human rights, human rights will become indifferent, in other words the secret of letters would be a little indifferent if it were not also applicable to our e-mail and the right to privacy in this regard. The right to homomarriage is, for example, the right to homomarriage. A new interpretation made by the Heads of Government of a large number of the Member States of the Council of Europe, such as the Heads of Government of the Member States of the Council of Europe. Putin, Erdogan and Orbán are not particularly happy, but I am extremely pleased that they have been included in the dynamic interpretation from, for example, the United Kingdom. The side of the Court of Human Rights. But there is something I would like to ask the Social Democrats specifically. It has been raised in this debate that a whole specific thing that could be done would be to sign this Protocol 16, which would allow the Supreme Court to obtain a comment from the Court of Human Rights prior to a decision, but that protocol has not yet been signed by Denmark; the protocol has not entered into force, among other things. Because there are ten Member States, including Denmark, which has not yet signed it. Is this something that the Social Democrats think the government should do in concrete terms to ensure a positive reform of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115411	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115412	It's a dangerous starting point to take. Second Vice-President We have to keep the chamber tone here! ) Sorry! It is in many ways a dangerous view to take a stand where it is said that because there is no support for the democratic development of human rights, we must have the court do so. I mean, get in the game, okay? That is simply no way to develop politics, yes, perhaps if you are the Enhedslisten and the old comrades of the former Soviet Union, but all of us will not say that politics must be developed by a court without democratic legitimacy. I bet you can also think of other sentences, which Enhedslisten should hardly be hailed by the court, for example. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposal. At least I don't think it was. The development of human rights must take place politically, not through the courts, and they must be done otherwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115507	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur, who was very committed. Next in line, sir. Søren Espersen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201115523	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for an excellent statement. Fortunately, when it comes to Denmark's foreign and security policy, which the government draws according to the Constitution, there is traditionally very large and broad support in this Things. In fact, it is only a few times in the post-war history of the country that this theme has caused division and triggered parliamentary drama. It is the footnote period in the 1980s and participation in the Iraq War which constitute the most significant exceptions. So it is the norm that we find each other across the middle, which I also track down will be the case in the case of another defence settlement, which this time will last six years. I do not want to go into the discussions we are working with in the conciliation circle here, but I just want to say that it is the view of the Danish People's Party that our defence must be as general and flexible as possible, since it is no human being who can soberly predict what security policy scenario Denmark is going on in 2023. We don't even know what it's gonna look like in six months. The crucial thing for DF is that we do not make hoovesa legislation in defence in view of the situation as it is right now, but that we leverage the defence to solve the challenges that no mother's soul had imagined here at Christmas time in 2017. As far as we are concerned, the major security policy challenge right now is two cases. The first is the Islamic terror. This is not a situation that ends even though the Islamic State has now lost its geographical area. We must anticipate decades of struggle against these crazy people. The second major challenge is migration. Millions of people from the Third World have now set a course for Europe, and it is no use believing that foreign aid could be the factor that will make millions stay at home. Then we will certainly be talking about a 100-year or 200-year project, and then the European culture will be over. However, in the Danish People's Party, we largely agree with the government on foreign and defence policy, and the discussions that we keep with both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence on this matter always take place in a good, confidential and secure atmosphere. We have solid confidence in the way in which the two ministers manage their offices. It is very important for me overall to make this clear before I address those areas where there may sometimes be disagreement. It is primarily about Russia. We see Russia's threatening statements, military construction and exercise activities in the Baltic Sea as a government with great seriousness. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has stated in his statement that the answer is both dialogue and a firm hand. We agree with the Minister that Russia does not pose a military threat to NATO countries, including non-Member States of Sweden and Finland, but that Russia, with its currently very annoying and completely unnecessary way of acting, will be able to create uncertainty for the neighbouring countries which are not favoured by NATO membership. Together with the EU countries, Denmark is part of the sanctions policy. • An approach that Dansk Folkeparti is not in favour of by principle. Cuba was sanctioned for almost 60 years, and I know there is still a Communist dictatorship there. Iran was for 35 years, and there is still an Islamist dictatorship. In my view, we can sanction Russia all we want, but it will probably still be there in 50 years' time as well as in 100 years' time. It may not be with Putin at the helm, but very conceivable with someone or more who looks like him. So, in general terms, on our part, on sanctions: no, thank you. Sanctions alone are a blow to the face of our own business and exports. There has been an estimated Danish export loss of approx. 5 billion kr. in the food sector and the Russians are still getting food on the table. Denmark's status as a warring nation is of course not new. Over the past 1,000 years in Denmark, we have been at war or war-like state for 300 years, most of which with our favorite enemies the Swedes and the Germans. But the new thing is that our soldiers and their battles are now taking place thousands of kilometres away from the borders of our country and that we are not there to defend our homeland or to win the war, but are there for all kinds of other reasons to create peace, for human rights, for democracy. And that sounds beautiful, but the question is whether this is a direction we should keep going in. We see the sacrifices made by our young soldiers; the shortcomings suffered by spouses and children; the enormous financial costs associated with our participation in war thousands of kilometres away; often in tribal wars or religious disputes, which in no way concern us and where it can be difficult, not to say impossible, to assess whether we are really on the right side. Is that a direction we want to continue in? Now look to Afghanistan. After 11 September, we were there, we sent fighters, tanks and 1,000 soldiers, and with good reason. But the soldiers were going to stay out there for 14 years, and when the agenda for our intervention was changed to something quite different after a year, it was that it went wrong. Now it was not a question of al-Qaeda or the Taliban having a bank; now it was a question of using all our energy and all our strength to establish democracy and human rights in Afghanistan. This is, of course, a quite impossible task. And why is that? Yes, only for the reason that a large majority of Afghans despise democracy and laugh at the word human rights. But why should it take from 2001 to 2017 before you could recognise that it wasn't necessary? Now it will undoubtedly end in Afghanistan, as could be predicted as early as 2001: the Taliban will quietly regain power in the country. And the problem is that the organization is as popular as it is in the country. That's why you're gonna get the power back. One is ready to march into the offices of Kabul, and the problem for us right now is that we do not understand the Afghans. Nor did Britain in its time or the Soviet Union for that matter. So when the last Western soldier leaves Afghanistan soon, hopefully, and we settle for sending some big bombs every now and then against terrorist camps, we should ask ourselves whether we won or we lost, or whether it ended in a draw. Perhaps there is someone here in the Folketing who thinks it is a strange question to ask, but it is a very real question in my optics. Because is it even longer allowed to go to war for the purpose of winning the war? I find it hard to imagine proud victory marches down Strøget. I have to confess. We don't do that in the West, because it could easily upset our enemies. And we don't want to upset our enemies. On the other hand, we cannot admit that we lost. No, you'd better keep it all quiet and get a draw like that. Quote: It is not about winning the war, it is about winning the peace. That is what the mantra always sounds like from the Western powers, who are failing in several wars gradually, for example. Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. They then forget to tell us that we have neither won nor won. It is possible that I sound very old-fashioned, as I am, but I would very much like us to win the wars in which we participate. I would very much like our goal in going to war in the future to be to defeat the enemy and win the war. And then, I would say to the Foreign Minister, let the peoples be left alone to govern their country in the way they find best to do with Sharia law for my sake. I don't care. The ones about it. Everyone has the tyrants they deserve. That is probably how we should generally begin to think, that is, how we Danes are to control our country. We would not like an outside military force to dictate any more than other peoples would like us to come rushing. I think we need to think again, and I say this deliberately again, because that was Denmark's foreign and security policy not long ago, when it was not part of our military task to solve the internal problems of other countries by conducting a democratic mission. It is very important for us in the Danish People's Party to get to grips with precisely this debate, this discussion. And I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120455	Thank you. There are brief comments, and the first questioner is Mr. Martin Lidegaard, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120500	Thank you for an excellent speech. On a long stretch I kind of share the Danish People's Party's analysis, including the need to look at what we have been in Afghanistan and several other places. What has succeeded, what has not succeeded? It has become a more complicated world we are in, and we need to learn from both our successes and the opposite, plus that it has become more complicated. I just don't think you can solve that complexity by saying that now we just have to pretend that everything is like it was 100 or 50 years ago, that is, there is one victor and one enemy, etc. The world has become more complicated. But what I really want to ask here is that the Danish People's Party is, after all, opposed to sanctions against Russia. I just find it hard to imagine that when a country breaks all international law and by armed force takes away the territory of another country... which is something other than human rights within one's own country... then the world community does not respond. Should the international community not react in some way? So, I fully agree that sanctions are a two-edged sword, because it also becomes problematic for ourselves; they do not work; they are not a miracle cure. But I also find it a little difficult with the view that there is nothing to be done, that is to say that it has no consequences when you go in by armed force and take part of another country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120625	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120627	But I agree with that. I mean, there must also be a state order in this way, and there has not been a state order here. Crimea may be showing a situation that makes this very, very difficult, because we have, of course, lifted our sanctions in Crimea. I don't think there are any people present in this Things that have the idea that Crimea will ever again be part of Ukraine. It's not gonna happen if green snow falls. We know it, and yet we have lifted sanctions in Crimea; it makes it difficult. I guess we shouldn't have done that, 'cause at some point we're gonna have to get out of this. We cannot, of course, have sanctions against Russia for the next 20-25 years or 50 years, but by then Russia will still have Crimea. I fully agree with the need to respond, but sanctions are probably not the right way to do this. We'd rather screw up some other buttons like preventing the entry of key persons, etc.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120732	If there are any follow-up questions, please press the questioner. There is. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120737	That is what is at the heart of the matter, because the sanctions that have been imposed are precisely the same. prohibition of the entry of key persons with special responsibilities. It is, of course, very targeted Crimea, but also Russia's active aggression in the Donbass region and eastern Ukraine, which is helping to destabilise large parts of the country. It also causes headaches in the longer term. Now I also have a share in it because I was Minister for Foreign Affairs when we introduced those sanctions. I'm behind them, and I stand by them. That is because the alternative to sanctions for me is some kind of military response or something that could completely get the situation out of control. I just find it hard to find a better tool in our toolbox, you might say, than just very targeted sanctions. And that is why I am surprised that the Danish People's Party is so persistently opposed to those sanctions, because I think it is actually a rather moderate and very precise reaction, one might say, even if it does not solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120835	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120836	Well, I'll never say never, I won't. In other words, I am sure that the sanctions imposed on South Africa at the time were indeed important. If we then say that sanctions can sometimes be envisaged, then at least that is how I think about the business community in this and not so much that it does not work, and I think it is essential to say that it is not the business community that is suffering. Then we must also be ready in here for sanctions, because it is easy to do with a majority in Parliament to help the business community with money, for example. for the next 1, 2, 3 years until they find new markets. It is not fair that we make a political decision on sanctions and sit here with halo around our heads, and it is still poor food producer you or that will suffer from this. So are we ready to make the big billion cheque every time we impose sanctions? I doubt we can get this through in the Folketing. But if we can, I think it's a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120937	The next question is Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201120940	Thank you, sir. Søren Espersen for a speech I think thought provoking. In particular, I noticed the passage in the speech where Mr. Søren Espersen touched on the problem of giving a mandate for a type of action, and in some time the mandate for the action changes, and then you really are in a completely different situation. There it is, then, that I will ask Mr. Søren Espersen, whether it really represents some perhaps delayed understanding of Enhedslisten's point of view in relation to Libya, where we were in the situation of sending soldiers off with the clear mandate to defend the civilian population, and within less than 48 hours it was changed to about regime change, in other words to change the regime, and why the Enhedslisten, who had not given a mandate for it, withdrew its support for the action. So was it a late understanding of Enhedslisten's actions in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121040	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121042	We could say that. Well, it's true that when we were in this late night hour and had to get the plane going, it was to save Benghazi and Benghazi's people, as I remember, and it was then changed to just a regime change. In Afghanistan it was then changed from something else and in Iraq also from something else to make it fit better together. So, sir... Søren Søndergaard may be right. I guess that's what complicated these things. I don't like finding another explanation, in case the first one doesn't really work. This was also the case with Saddam Hussein, who found that it was not the case with weapons of mass destruction and relations with al-Qaeda and so on, and then came up with something else. I don't like that kind of form, so I'd like to give it to Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121136	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121138	I just wanted to say that I couldn't have answered the question better myself, so I thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121141	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121143	I think that is almost the greatest honour I have ever experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121154	So we move on to the next question. Sir. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121154-2	It might also have felt a bit like being hung by a pickpocket, but leave it alone. Thanks for a good speech. On a number of lines, the rapporteur expressed what must be called a reasonable isolationist foreign policy, that is to say that the countries must deal with it themselves; we must not interfere in that; they must deal with it themselves. And I think that there are a number of situations in which we are present in the world where we are interfering, partly for idealistic reasons, but also because otherwise there will be a situation which will have a spill-over effect on us which will have an impact on us. In other words, it could be, for example, that we cannot deal with migratory flows in the neighbourhood, we know that this is of enormous importance to us. If we cannot combat terrorism in the world, there is a considerable risk that it will rub off on us. In fact, I would just like to hear the rapporteur's comments on this, i.e. whether they are views that are shared.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121259	No, I wouldn't say that. It's really funny, because when you sit and go through colonial history and find out the mistakes they made back then, you can see that it was precisely because they carried out a mission and wanted to make the world according to their own religious thinking. That is what I believe is still the case now with a democratic mission that will probably end up in the same desperate way as the other one. I think it is essential to say that every nation has the right to organise its own future and that we should not intervene unless it bothers others, because then I think action should be taken. But isolationistly, I do not think we can be talked about, because we are 100% in favour of NATO cooperation, and attacks on NATO countries are something that concerns us. NATO is a great organisation that we appreciate. So it's not like I don't give a shit about everything that's going on around the world. I just think that, in general, people should be left in peace and, by the way, ensure that they have good trade relations and have diplomatic relations with all countries, and then they have to find out for themselves how they manage it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121409	The latter part I very much agree with, in other words, that prior to all military activity, good commercial relations and so on can prevent. I fully agree with that. What I noted the questioner said was that the countries must do as they please, unless it bothers others. And there are some situations where we have to say: here we are acting, among other things. Because it can just potentially bother us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121434	I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121443	Then I would like to thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and give the floor to the next speaker, Mr President. Peter Juel Jensen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201121451	Thank you for that, President. I should like to say hello to the rapporteur for Foreign Affairs of the United Left, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Michael Aastrup Jensen, and regret that he did not have the opportunity to be here today. But he's doing his job somewhere else, and instead he sent me. I would like to begin by commending the ministers for a good and very comprehensive statement. The world is changing. We can no longer count on the end of history, as optimistically formulated after the fall of the Berlin Wall. The years when we could sit back and raise the peace dividend are over. Denmark's security is again a subject that will be on the political agenda. Trump's leadership in the United States, Brexit and an increasingly aggressive Putin's Russia have challenged the entire world order of the world order that we have known since the end of the Cold War, and this, of course, also presents challenges in Denmark. We're a small country. That is why our commitment to NATO, to the European Union, to the United Nations is extremely important, because it is in these fora that we, together with other countries, find solutions to common challenges. At the same time, it is important that we in Denmark have the opportunity to engage internationally, where, in cooperation with our allies and partners, we can make a difference. It is therefore crucial that Denmark has the ability and capacity to participate in international operations, and despite our size Denmark takes responsibility. This is why Denmark is contributing soldiers in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Mali. However, it is not only enough to ask with soldiers. Danish diplomacy plays a very important role in safeguarding Danish interests abroad and within international organisations. Denmark's ambition is high and therefore it is natural that the External Action Service should be strengthened. We simply have to do so in order to have influence, and that is why the government has strengthened Danish diplomacy and the taking of interest by 75 million. kr. increasing to 70 million. kr. Annually from 2018 onwards. Denmark has historically been closely associated with the United States, regardless of who was president, and it is no secret that Trump is a mildly speaking alternative one of the kind. Many of the President's statements cut our ears on Danes, but that does not change the fact that relations with the United States are extremely important for Denmark. The fact that the President is called Trump merely means that we in Denmark and Europe must continue to fight hard to get the United States on board when it comes to agreements, for example. climate, security and free trade. Trade with the United States is quite important for Denmark. The United States is Denmark's largest trading partner outside the EU. There are more than 700 Danish companies in the United States and there are over 70,000 employees. This must not, however, result in us abstaining from criticising the American administration when there are issues with which we fundamentally disagree, and it is in fact also part of a strong friendship to be able to be dus in that way. The great challenge for both Denmark and Europe is Russia's aggressive behaviour. This is true in relation to Russia's continued illegal occupation of Crimea and involvement in the civil war in eastern Ukraine. It is absolutely essential that democratic institutions in Russia's neighbouring countries be strengthened, especially in Georgia and Ukraine. Both countries have experienced how Russia has put action behind words and used weaponry to force its views. Ukraine, in particular, continues to have major problems in building trust in its institutions. Corruption and abuse of power are a daily disorder. Denmark, through its neighbourhood programme, is helping to strengthen, among other things: Courts of Ukraine and Georgia. It is an important work in which Denmark has contributed quite considerable sums over many years. Russia is very much behind cyber attacks on important social institutions in the Western world. Denmark has also been affected, including the defence, where Russian hackers have tried to access. This means that Denmark has to take its measures together with our allies. This is true in relation to the defence of Denmark itself, which must be strengthened, but it is also important that we have effective safeguards against cyber attacks, which are able to counter Russian attempts to spread fake news in European media. It is therefore timely care that the government is putting forward a significant strengthening of Denmark's cyber defence in the project for a new defence settlement. With unrest in the Middle East and a massive population explosion in Africa, there is massive pressure against Europe's borders and therefore also against the Danishs. Traffickers earn a lot of money selling an unrealistic dream of a rich life in Europe, whereas the truth is that it is a dangerous journey and a life as illegal that can become reality. The migration flows towards Europe are a huge challenge that is high on the political agenda, both in Denmark and in the rest of Europe. Denmark has a responsibility to help people flee from war and natural disasters. However, this must be done in the neighbourhood rather than through the asylum system. In other words, we must not support the business model of traffickers. Instead, we must help as many people as possible for the same money, and that is best done in the neighbourhoods. Against this background, the government has taken the initiative of appointing a deployment ambassador and sending out two alien attachés, as well as setting up a deployment unit in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Integration. There will therefore be stronger action in the field of broadcasting. These should be the words of the statement made by the government and again thank the ministers for a good and thorough statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201122108	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Nikolaj Villumsen as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201122127	Thank you. For the past 15-20 years, Danish foreign policy has more or less been blindly followed in the tail of the United States. Among other things, it has. brought Denmark into the war in Afghanistan, Iraq and Libya. The result of the many bombs that Denmark has thrown, the result of the many soldiers and the many billions of tax dollars lost by Denmark, has, frankly, been increased chaos and extremism. ISIL has grown up in the chaos created by the American and Danish invasions in Iraq, in Afghanistan, despite some 16 years of war, the Taliban stands stronger than ever, and in Libya, NATO's decision to break the UN mandate led to chaos and instability, which we are still facing today, not to create a political solution focusing on protecting the civilian population, but instead to throw bombs and create an uncontrolled regime change. Right now, as you know, the President of the United States is Donald Trump. His policy not only creates hatred and divisions in American society but also threatens to throw the world into new incalculable wars. If he attacks Iran, millions of people will risk being driven on the run, and the Middle East can sink even further into an even greater chaos. If he attacks North Korea, millions of people will risk dying. If he succeeds in undermining the Paris climate agreement, then the question is whether there will be a future for future generations at all. Therefore, in Enhedslisten, we believe that the main focus of Danish foreign policy should be to try something new: try to separate Danish foreign policy from blind tailing to the US, try to free Denmark from Trump's whims and instead seek closer cooperation with clear and close friends and cooperate closer security and foreign policy with our Nordic neighbours, for example to strengthen the UN and create a stronger international legal order. Similarly, it is quite obvious to work with our Nordic neighbours to work for mutual agreements on disarmament and détente in the Baltic Sea region. Because one has to ask oneself, when one reads the statement by the Foreign Minister, why we can have a policy of relaxation against Russia in the Arctic, but we cannot have it in relation to the Baltic Sea. That doesn't make sense. The current arms race, frankly, increases the risk of conflict, and it creates neither security for Denmark nor for the Baltic. Not least, we see that the arms build-up on both sides of the Russian border leads to the strengthening of Russian President Putin towards the forthcoming Russian presidential elections. This is a sad situation for Russia and a sad situation for everyone who wants democracy and freedom. Instead of spending billions on armaments with an increased risk of conflict, Denmark should focus on strengthening the green transition and ensuring development in the world's poorest countries for the benefit of the most poor and vulnerable people and for help in the neighbourhoods, so that the neighbourhoods that care for the vast majority of the world's refugees today do not collapse. It is positive that ISIL is more or less defeated in military terms, but if we do not win peace in Syria and Iraq, it is only a matter of time before we see the next civil war and wave of extremism. There is a need for massive political pressure on the Iraqi Government to stop attacks on the Sunni and Kurdish populations in Iraq. This cannot be done by giving military support to the Iraqi Government, as we have unfortunately heard, in the words of the Minister for Defence, the abuse of prisoners in front of unfortunately powerless Danish soldiers. Let us pull the Danish soldiers back from Iraq and instead work to strengthen those parts of Iraqi civil society that want a fight with corruption and sectarianism. Let us work to put pressure on the Kurdish regime in Northern Iraq to issue an election to the presidential and parliament so that they comply with their own constitutions and rules and so that the Kurdish people have a chance to put an end to the corrupt Barzani plan, which, unfortunately, has been driving the country down for far too long without political pressure from the West to ensure compliance with the rules and constitutions of the Kurdish territories. In Syria, pro-democratic forces in the SDF alliance have liberated an area the size of Belgium with millions of people, both people who have lived in the area for a long time, but also refugees from other parts of Syria. I think we've all seen these pictures of brave men and women who have recently liberated Raqqa, for example. They have liberated their territories from the Assad regime and from ISIL, but they lack support to rebuild Raqqa. They lack support to rebuild other devastated cities after they have been liberated. They lack food and medicine so that the people are not forced to flee to Europe, and they lack political help and support so that they are not destroyed by the Assad regime in a moment, so that they are not overrun by the clergy regime in Iran or run over by the despot Erdogan in Turkey. These regimes all have in common the fact that they have no interest in seeing a population of Arabs, Turkmen, Kurds and Christians unite in a common alliance, as has happened in some parts of Syria, where the SDF alliance has freed the territories. It threatens these sectarian regimes because it can be said that this is another model of cooperation in the Middle East. But if we mean it seriously in Denmark, if we mean it seriously in the Folketing, when we talk about help for the neighbourhoods, then this is where we have to take action. Then it is here that we must help so that refugees are not forced to flee to Europe, but they can live in and develop their territories, which they have liberated themselves from a brutal regime of Assad, which they themselves have liberated from extreme forces from ISIL. Denmark should work actively to support pro-democratic forces both in Syria and in Iraq, but also in the Middle East in general. I have to say that I am deeply ashamed that Danish media have been able to read that it has now become the case that surveillance equipment can be exported to despotic regimes, among others. The Middle East and North Africa, regimes which we know are actively taking action against human rights defenders, imprisoning those who oppress them and thereby having a situation where Denmark ends up helping to hold some despots in power instead of supporting a civil society in bringing about progressive change. Honestly, it will not bring about stabilisation, on the contrary. What we need from Denmark should, of course, be working for stabilisation, work for development, and we can do that in concrete terms. I have mentioned what we can do in Syria, in the Kurdish areas of Northern Iraq, and I have mentioned what we can do in Iraq, but I also think that an important place when we talk about the Middle East is Israel and Palestine. After all, the obvious thing is to stabilise that conflict, to gain recognition from the Danish side of Palestine as a state, so that you can have a viable and sustainable Palestinian state side by side with Israel, which Denmark fortunately recognises well today, so that there can be a lasting and sustainable peace and a free and democratic Palestine. There is no doubt that if you do so, you will be helping to stabilise a region that is unfortunately currently suffering from chaos. When I read the statement, I must say that I find it embarrassing how little room the Foreign Minister gives to the Council of Europe. Denmark currently holds the presidency, and at a time when we see that despots such as Erdogan, Putin and Orban are in power in the countries of the Council of Europe, Denmark should work to strengthen human rights. Instead, the Danish Government, led by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has sought support from among others. the authoritarian Hungarian regime for an attack on the Court of Human Rights. Honestly, I think it's under all criticism. The Council of Europe is a huge success for Danish foreign policy. Human rights and the rule of law help prevent conflict and chaos. I think it is positive to see how Putin, Orban and Erdogan are forced to stand up to the European Court of Human Rights for their failure to respect fundamental democratic rights. The government should work to push the crooks instead of pressing the Court of Human Rights and the human rights institutions of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123137	Thank you. There are brief comments. The first question is Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123142	Thank you. One of the things that I think must be great about being a Unity Lister is that you always know that they are the right ones to support. I think you have such a green woodpecker book, where it says exactly what is democratic forces and what is not. The rest of us have such nagging doubts every time someone says they are in favour of democracy. It is not always certain that this is true. It was also called the Deutsche Democratic Republic at the time. People cannot always be trusted when they say they want democracy. Why is it that Enhedslisten can be so sure that those random people and movements you just got hold of are just the right ones?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123219	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123221	I assume that the rapporteur is thinking of Syria, i.e. this SDF alliance. It is clear that I do not think that it is a place like Syria that is simple or easy to build democratic structures after a violent regime, as the Assad regime has been, but one can say that the Enhedslisten is not alone in supporting these forces. After all, we have a broad majority in the Folketing, among other things. with the Danish People's Party, who voted to give them air support with fighter planes. What's my point is, we can't just leave this alone. If we do not support the construction of democratic civil society, if we do not help the pro-democratic forces to come to the negotiating table to negotiate the future of Syria, where Turkey is currently keeping them out, then we simply will not have peace and stability in the region. Then we will not have a situation where it will be possible for the refugees to return. And I've understood, among other things. Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, chairman of the Danish People's Party, wants refugees to be able to return to Raqqa. So it should be logical that the Danish People's Party supported Enhedslisten's proposal for reconstruction and help for these areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123335	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123336	No, but now that word was mentioned again, the pro-democratic forces. I think it is incredibly easy to throw out, and I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur has ever heard of any popular rebel movements against dictatorship which did not say they were democratic. In fact, we heard that from Ayatollah Khomeini when he left Paris. It was then also to restore democracy in Iran. I would like one to have a little more understanding that this is not straightforward and that it is very, very strong when Enhedslisten firmly states: exactly this small grouping we support, it needs every help. I find it difficult.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123422	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123423	Yes, if we are talking about Syria, then we are talking about an area the size of Belgium with about 4 million inhabitants. I have visited the area myself and have talked to people down there when local elections were held for the municipalities here a month ago. Here in January there will be local elections for the entire liberated area. I don't think things are perfect down there, but I think it's a little absurd if we stand here in the Folketing talking about help in the neighbourhoods or, as Mr. Kristian Thulesen Dahl, chairman of the Danish People's Party, for example, made it necessary to contribute to the return of refugees to Raqqa if we do not take a concrete approach to what the situation is there and, for example, provide reconstruction material and make it possible to build stability and institution in these areas. Otherwise, we will continue to have a situation in which people are forced to flee to Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123515	The next question is Mr. Nick Hækkerup, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123518	Thank you, and thank you for your speech. In fact, my question is quite short and it is whether the Enhedslisten believes that the behaviour that we see from Russia and Putin in relation to Crimea, Ukraine and the aggressiveness in the Baltic Sea, etc., reflects Russia's rediscovery of its ambitions to become a great power.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123545	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123546	After all, we ourselves visited Russia with the Foreign Policy Name, and I thought it was very clear to see that what the Russians were trying very hard to achieve was to be recognised on an equal footing with the West, but of course also on an equal footing with the United States as an area that can control some other neighbouring areas. There is no doubt about that, and I am critical of the fact that the United States sometimes interferes and supports some despots, both historical and contemporary, around the world to have some control. We see Russia doing the same. After all, it is terrible to see how Russia does not behave properly towards its neighbouring countries, but ends up in conflict with virtually all neighbouring countries to which they are bordering.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123633	If Russia then has great-power ambitions, I would like to hear the Enhedslisten's proposals on how it should be handled and whether NATO has any relevance in this regard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123649	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123650	Well, I think it should be handled. Specifically, on the one hand, we supported the EU's sanctions following the annexation of Crimea and, on the other, Russia's military involvement in eastern Ukraine, because we believe that it should have a consequence and that economic and political pressure should be put on it. We have also argued for a no to this Nord Stream 2 pipeline in the Baltic Sea. Where I think the waters divide between Social Democracy and the Enhedslisten is that we simply do not believe that one becomes safer by arming. On the contrary, with increased armaments in the Baltic Sea, there is a risk of increasing the risk of open conflict, and there is also the problem of removing Russia's focus from the major social problems and the corruption that Putin's regime is facing. Instead, he can blow himself up in the run-up to the presidential elections and probably get a stronger position. So that's where we disagree. In fact, we believe that it will end up strengthening Putin instead of weakening Putin, which is our objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123744	The next question is Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123749	Thank you. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen came a long way, and that's all right, that's how it's supposed to be in a debate like this. I have a question for an area a little far from here. It is Venezuela, where you have a President who has run the country economically, oppresses all democratic rights and is a huge, huge problem, not least when he at the same time calls himself left-wing. When he was elected, Enhedslisten's international committee sent him a very, very warm message of congratulations. We haven't really heard anything from the Enhedslisten since then. Yes, sir, a few colleagues. Nikolaj Villumsen, e.g. Mr. Pelle Dragsted, I have heard disapprove of Maduro, but I have not heard any opposition from the Enhedslisten as party, from the party's international committee, from the party's leadership, and I would like to hear from the rapporteur here today whether we can count on Enhedslisten to take a completely consistent and unequivocal stand against the repression of the population and oppressed democratic rights taking place in Venezuela, even if the regime calls itself socialist.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123902	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123903	- Sir, you can. Holger K. Nielsen be quite calm. It is not new when I say, on behalf of the Enhedslisten, that the Enhedslisten rejects the repression taking place in Venezuela and simply because people claim to be left-wing, it is not an excuse to violate fundamental human rights. That is the clear principle of the Enhedslisten, and that is also the principle we have pursued in relation to our criticism of the repression that is taking place in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123932	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123935	I am very pleased to hear that, and I think that is very fine. When I asked, it is because it has puzzled me that the International Committee on the Enhedslisten for me, as I have seen at least, has not spoken about it. But now I have it from the rapporteur here, which is why it is excellent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123950	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201123952	At any rate, it is now from the horse's own mouth as political rapporteur for the Enhedslisten and the Foreign Affairs rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that I have made this clear, and I hope that there is no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201124003	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. We'll move on to the next speaker, and that's Mr. Knox. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201124014	Thank you for the floor. During the year I visited Brussels, London, Edinburgh, Dublin and Belfast as a member of Parliament's Brexit Subcommittee. In September I had the honour of being a delegate to the UN General Assembly in New York, and here in October I followed up with, among others. the Minister for Foreign Affairs and several of those present here in the room visiting the Al-Asad Air Base in Anbar Province, western Iraq. Diplomats are polite people... that's something the job requires... but it beats me anyway, when I travel around the world, that there is an incredibly high respect for Danish diplomacy and foreign policy. I think it comes from the fact that we are earnestly and carefully cultivating the large and central organisations of which we are a member, that is, the European Union, NATO, the United Nations and the WTO. I also believe that it comes from the fact that, although there may be disputes within Denmark, we are pursuing a development policy that is truly very respectful, not least in the United Nations. And then we participate in military missions around the world, and we do so in a very professional way. The Danish soldiers are doing a good job, and it is noticed by our partners. After all, it has been said by some of the previous speakers that one would have liked to have had another committee of activities in which the External Action Service participates and on which the government is focused. I would just like to draw your attention to the chronicle of the Foreign Minister in Politiken the other day. There you can see that Denmark's ongoing foreign policy activities consist of a lot more than they are captured in the five focus areas. Trade promotion is mentioned around the world; the situation in the United States, which is of course some kind of unknown territory, is mentioned, I think one can say; there is the whole monitoring of the development of free trade, which is also very dynamic, not least in the Pacific region; and there is, in general, a commitment to the development of the Far East and not least in China. However, I certainly believe that these five focus areas, which have been taken out for further discussion, are very well-chosen and relevant, and that a full description of the government's activities has been given. So what I'm going to crack down on isn't something with flaws and shortcomings and things that should have been much better, but I would say that although we receive an incredible amount of paper here in the Danish Parliament... maybe sometimes too much paper... I might have thought on some points that the statement was longer than it is. It is often formulated in such a way that the tectonic plates in foreign policy are currently moving and that is a metaphor. The tectonic plates are the plates on which the continents are located and which are the basis of the continental drive, but therefore, metaphorically, this means that there are some very large, deep things that change in foreign policy. And so I would like the government at some point to invite the Folketing to some kind of future workshop or something. At least I would very much like to do that. There are some political tendencies that go a long way in the future and that I think we are going to deal with much more, and I would like to mention them. Then it may be that we can have a discussion on it. And what I want to say then does not come in a order of priority, in which what I mention first is to be understood as the one that has the highest priority. When I look out in Europe, there is a phenomenon such as identity policy, which I believe will be dealt with more in foreign policy in the future. In Spain, we have seen the consequences of Catalan identity policy, and I do not think that the latter has been said in this case. But what are the driving forces of identity policy? I find that difficult to understand. There is a witty dog who says that socialists and liberals agree on one thing that is wrong, namely that everything is about money. As I said, it is only a witty remark, but there may be something about it, after all, about many jokes. Identity policy is not just about money, it is about feelings, and it is about many other things. But how do we understand that? Is there anywhere else in Europe that you can imagine that identity policy can develop into a force that you can count on? And what are we going to do about identity policy if it becomes a political force that cannot be sidelined? Then I have a headline that may sound a little strange, but I have written here in my paper: A challenge to the Westfalse system. So this is the system of nation states, or we have a political space that is a well-defined nation state. This seems to me to have been under pressure this year, and I think the government has actually tackled it very well by verbally helping the Dutch Government and expressing its sympathy. However, Germany and the Netherlands have, this year, experienced the consequences of Turkey's President Erdogan's apparently thinking that he is a kind of head of state for all persons of Turkish descent and that many people of Turkish descent apparently also believe that he is in some way, in some sense, head of state for them. And that means that the political spaces in which we are used to thinking will, to some extent, have more porous limits. I would not say that they are disintegrating. I am not standing here and having a fixed and final conclusion, but again I am calling for a kind of future workshop among the foreign ministers present here. What challenges does it pose in a country if there is a larger contingent of people who, in one sense or another, believe that their legitimate political representative is the head of state of a country other than the country in which they are staying? This is a political issue of the utmost importance which the governments of Germany and the Netherlands have had to deal with to a great extent and in which I believe that due diligence is in some way appropriate. The last point I would like to mention is therefore also a somewhat worrying point. It is a new division or a new division of Europe. How serious are we gonna take this? I think it is quite clear that the Visegrad countries and Austria do not really want to follow the political line that can be described as the main line of the European Union. How great is that division? One can take it lightly and say, when one looks at the opposition that is being formulated against the central policy of the European Union, that Austria and Hungary seem to be under some kind of mental recovery • I do not think one should stretch the metaphor too far. So what kind of division do we see in Europe? How are we supposed to understand it? And how are we to prevent Europe from being divided again, after we have brought Europe together with great pains and pains and pains, what has been a very great advantage? These are reflections in the slightly longer term on Danish foreign policy and how we understand our being in the world, so to speak, as I hope we in this group of rapporteurs, where we are actually often able to have some very good discussions, can also discuss, and I hope that the government will also take part in that discussion. Because in the slightly longer term, I think that this is something that we will have to do a great deal of work on, perhaps not my generation of politicians, but the next generation of politicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201124936	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201124952	Thank you. In the alternative, we have read the report with great interest. We think it is very positive that the government starts by recognising that Denmark, of course, has an interest in having strong multilateral organisations that can make decisions. We are also pleased that we are also working on long-term measures in relation to the fight against migration, with a focus on, among other things: Women's rights. Having said that, the statement is unfortunately too much an expression of a short-term and self-interest-focused approach to foreign policy. In addition, a lot of good measures, such as the common European asylum policy, remain in empty words and outstanding promises. Finally, the government is a little concerned about the climate crisis and global inequality, which should really be our main concern. The government rightly describes pressure on European borders due to flight and migration, but the flow of refugees and migrants we are experiencing today is not near what we will experience if we and the rest of the world do not soon take the happen in the other hand in relation to the climate. If the current climate change continues unsatisfied, in 2050 we will have up to 200 million climate refugees, more than three times as many migrants and people on the run as today. When so many people move from one area to another, from one continent to another, we face serious problems. That is why we need to talk at least as much about the climate crisis as we are talking about a humanitarian crisis. These are long-term challenges requiring long-term international solutions. Here it is absolutely crucial that, in cooperation with the developing countries, we also help them adapt to climate change, in other words, what is called adaptation in the COP negotiations. We find the money to support the natural changes that they must also bring about because of climate change. If we have said international solutions to the climate crisis, we must also say the Paris Agreement. We can read that, fortunately, the government shares the concern that Trump is pulling the United States out of the Paris Agreement, and we will propose to the government to honour its words to fight hard for international cooperation, which ensures the best future conditions for future generations by taking the lead that has been chosen in relation to coal. This can also be done in relation to the rest of fossil production by stopping looking for oil and gas and making plans for phasing out our own production, so that we are thus involved in international development. In the slightly shorter context of the humanitarian crisis we are facing, both the European Parliament and the Commission would like to resolve the refugee and migrant problems together. The Commission has come up with a solution. And what is absolutely crucial here is that we look at the fact that we cannot solve this as a single nation. We need to do this together. Unfortunately, however, we just lack the concrete solutions and more than words from among others. the government and the Council of the European Union. It is just like the other institutions that have actually made concrete demands. And we think this should be an absolute priority, because it is only together that we can solve the challenges that have triggered a serious political crisis in the European Union. We have to remember that 84 per cent. In other words, the refugees are living in the developing countries. It is not the majority that comes to Europe. By far, the vast majority are in the weakest, vulnerable countries, and we need to understand this from Europe. We also need to understand, when we make third-country agreements, that we are aware of all the challenges that may be involved, and here I am thinking of the Turkey agreement, where we have outsourced a challenge to Turkey, which puts us in a slightly weak position when it comes to criticising violations of human rights, the imprisonment of parliamentarians, journalists and also the ever-increasing repression of the LGBTI area, where cultural events have been recently chosen to be cancelled as film festivals. As far as all this is concerned, we are very weak because we have outsourced these challenges to them. So to a little praise. There has to be, because there are also very good things. We would like to commend the government for the innovation centres and for the new Techa ambassador. It looks largely like a success, and it is a really, really good initiative. And it creates a breeding ground for new, innovative ideas and developments at a time when there are so many different trends and so many cross-border developments, and that is why we must of course also use foreign policy to be there. We would like to encourage, as we have done in the past, perhaps also to think about creating a climate ambassador post, so that we can also go in and work across the External Action Service on this important, important issue. In relation to economic diplomacy and the government's very general focus on export promotion, it is important for us to point out that we do not think the External Action Service should develop into a pure export service. A concrete example is that trade and trade policy are very good as tools for the benefit of humanity and our planet, but simply creating economic growth must not become an end in itself. We have to ask: what is it that we want out of it? We find it rather problematic that development and foreign policy, as we generally think it is happening in this statement, should become narrow and commercial and then become the fight against migration. This whole approach with something for something where aid should be conditional on the partner country's willingness to cooperate to take migrants back, we think is problematic. It's gonna be too one-sided. We need to look at it more widely. Overall, in the alternative, we would like the Danish foreign policy to focus more on how we actually make Denmark the best country for the world, so that it is not a unilateral foreign policy where we go out and achieve something, but so that we see ourselves as part of the world. Because we believe that we can help create a more sustainable, freer and more equal world for all. We can do this by being at the forefront of climate change and dare to be ambitious and progressive, and we can also do this with regard to human rights and, of course, by strongly supporting the Council of Europe, where we are currently holding the Presidency. But we can also, in all sorts of other international contexts, go in and be active and really do this for the common good and not be one-sided in our approach to it. So a strong call for us to ensure that foreign policy becomes a real global policy, because we think that is what is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201125721	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. Next in line, sir. Martin Lidegaard as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201125733	Thank you very much, President. And thank the government for the statement. I want to get to the bottom of it, even though it is impossible to reach the whole world and its surroundings in this limited time. But the government itself has a number of areas that it highlights. The first thing that is being highlighted is the area of migration, where I would at least like to acknowledge that the government is taking an EU approach and recognising that without very strong cooperation, not least between the European Union and Africa, we simply cannot control this situation. Against this background, we are also very pleased with the agreement reached yesterday between the European Union and Africa. And we will certainly encourage the government to keep that track. One small line: almost everywhere you can write it, the government makes a lot of sense in linking development aid to repatriation agreements. We think it would be a good idea to sort out repatriations, but in practice we may have a little less faith in it. If we now look at the countries that are involved, then most of them are, after all, some who do not receive assistance from Denmark, and then it is difficult to connect it. And in two of the top five countries that are ready for repatriation in Denmark, namely Iraq and Afghanistan, I do not really believe that the government is doing that, at least I do not want to drop down on the stabilisation efforts. In any case, we have just approved a major contribution to Afghanistan. So it is not so easy in practice, I would just like to point out, and that is why you can get the feeling, when you read the statement, that it is more about pleaseing your parliamentary basis than actually making the very big difference; but we agree with the objective. Then I would like to say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is incomprehensible to me that an entire statement on security and our foreign policy interests can be made in the year 2017 without really mentioning the climate area. Just one figure: In 2016, 23.5 million people were driven on the run due to drought and other extreme weather. These are three times more refugees than were driven on the run from conflicts and wars three times more refugees. The climate is a threat of security both directly and indirectly, and if it is not an integral part of our security and foreign policy strategy to do something about it too, then I do not think we have the root of the nettle, and I think we are committing a great sin of omission which we cannot at least live with. The next issue raised by the government is Russia and security in our neighbourhood. We agree with the government's line. We probably do not have much faith that hard arms build-up in the Baltic will benefit or lead to greater deterrence of Russia. NATO already spends 19 times more money every year on its defence than Russia does. On the other hand, we think it makes sense to combine a firm hand with an open hand, and here we might actually miss a little focus on what you could call people's activities. We believe that it is important to maintain a dialogue with Russian civil society and people, while at the same time having a firm hand with Putin. Exchanges of students, democracy projects, media projects and such things, we would like to see a little more focus on both in Russia and in Ukraine. Then we come to Europe and Brexit, where we share many of the government's concerns. But there are also some questions that are pressing. The government is quite right to point out that one of the major issues next year is the EU budget after England withdraws. As far as I am concerned, it will be the litmus test of what a new Europe we see. For one thing they are endless negotiations with England itself, but it is just as important what the 27 countries that remain will agree to give priority over the next four years. What you choose to spend your money on there says a lot about what this world is all about. That is why I would like to ask the Foreign Minister here because it says that it will be an exciting discussion about where the government is in that discussion. What does the government want to turn up in the EU budget, and what do you want to turn down? Let me give you some examples: do you want to increase aid to the neighbourhood, try to develop sustainable solutions, also in relation to migration in Africa, strengthen development policy cooperation? Do you want to turn up the energy union, for the funds needed to build better infrastructure in Europe, for climate action, and do you want to turn up research and development as something that can strengthen Europe's future? And how are you going to finance it? Hopefully, this will be cutting a little bit of agricultural aid, which often does more harm than good. Or what is one's priority and not one's priority? I think that is an insanely important democratic debate, for which we should also have more time here. Then the government has a section on globalisation and economic and technological development, which is, of course, in a hurry. Imagine that the OECD's projections say that over the next 15 years the world's GDP will double. It is 3 billion more middle-class citizens in the world that we face. That growth is fantastic if it succeeds in making it sustainable. It can actually eradicate poverty, make it possible to achieve the UN's 17 sustainability targets and make it much harder for extremists to spread their diabolical ideology, etc. and so on, if we can feel a growth for the next 15 years that is sustainable in every sense of the word. On the other hand, it is not difficult to conjure up the nightmares that we look into if growth is not sustainable, becomes unequal and is not spread out, so that we eradicate poverty, and if that happens in a way, so that the climate completely succumbs and thus also the civilisation that we know today. Once again I must say that I do not think much has been left of it in the Minister's statement. Finally, there's the Arctic. After all, we agree with the Arctic strategy underlying the work of the Danish Parliament. We also agree with the part of the defence settlement that we have already come a long way in in the sense of what we need to do. But it is also clear to me that we are not in the end at all. Our Arctic strategy is evolving continuously, which is why we still see a huge potential in a slightly more offensive approach in the Arctic area. It is both about exploiting the unique position we have, as the only country in the world that is both in Arctic 5, the EU and NATO, in the field of research, in terms of promoting investment in Greenland and strengthening the Kingdom community, etc. etc. There was not much new, if I may put it that way, in that section of the government statement, but there was one thing that I attached myself to, and I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely that one works for one, and I quote: Arctic financing facility. I would like to hear a little more about it, that is, what you really imagine about it. I think that we have a lot of potential in getting together with Greenland and the Faroe Islands in an active Arctic profile. While all this is going on, we are negotiating defence reconciliation, and it is moving forward quietly, and I think that we will agree on it before Christmas I very much hope so. And there should be no doubt, given that I have explained such the pillars of the Radical Left's foreign policy view, that what we are going to weight, and which I think we are doing well to weight in that defence project, is not just gunpowder and bullets, but it is a much greater focus on the preventive and stabilising efforts that, I hope, will enable the countries around Europe to take better care of themselves. I very much disagree with Mr. Søren Espersen in that it is not our headache and that we do not have a self-interest in actively trying to build the capacity of police and defence, for example. in North Africa, in the Middle East, which enables those countries to take much more care of their own future. I believe that in some cases we have a moral obligation to do so, but I also believe that we have a clear self-interest in it. Perhaps we could discuss what we can actually do to ensure that migratory flows are brought under control, ensuring that the growth we are getting in any case over the next 15 years is more democratically based and more sustainable than if we do not interfere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201130702	Thank you to the honourable Member. There is a brief remark from another honourable Member, Mr President. Søren Espersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201130710	Thank you and thank the rapporteur for raising some interesting issues. The rapporteur mentioned this here with the African Union and the European Union and the agreement that has now been settled and which is described today by Politiken. I think this is a terrible agreement because Mogherini curiously described it as an agreement that gave hope to many Africans to be able to come to Europe. I think it is quite wrong to give that hope. Why should you give that hope? What is it that means that the EU must also open up the possibility of migration from Africa into Europe? Why?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201130759	The obvious answer is, of course, that the Danish economy and, incidentally, large parts of the Danish public sector are facing a massive shortage of hands and labour in the coming years, which cannot only be solved through free movement in Europe, because it is a challenge facing all European countries. What is important in this is that it is entirely up to the individual countries whether they want to take in foreign labour. This has nothing to do with the refugee problem. It is if you need doctors, if you need all kinds of qualified labour, that you can choose to take them in and where the Africans, as I read the agreement, want, you can say, a more controlled and more agreed way of dealing with it than the illegal migration that is taking place today, in which no one, and certainly not in Europe, has any interest. So, for me, this is an attempt to create control over an area that is not currently under control, and if we then need to, and I think we do that personally, Mr. Søren Espersen may not be able to get any skilled labour because we simply have a demographic development that means that we don't have enough hands at home, we can do it, but we can also not. That is why I do not really understand that Mr. Søren Espersen is so sorry about that agreement, because it is not something that forces Denmark to do anything; it is just something that gives greater clarity and greater control if it succeeds in implementing it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201130924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201130925	I may have misunderstood it, but I understood it in that way that a bunch of people are being sent southwards. I think there were 3 800 people mentioned and every time people were then sent back to the countries where they came from, access to the country was to be measured in the same quotas. But what you're trying to do now is make something illegal into something legal. Isn't that right? However, in connection with the explanation given by the rapporteur, namely that it can provide the opportunity for the Danish economy to receive much-needed help, I would say that it can be done today. What is the problem if there is some fucking engineer from Kenya that a Danish workplace needs? I'm gonna let him come. That is the way it is, and it has always been, and it should remain so. But what I object to here is the situation in which the hope is given to a great deal of hope that Europe is now opening its borders. And I certainly do not think it should be done, because I think we have an obligation to our European people to avoid the mass migration from Africa.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131037	The second question is one and a half minutes. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131041	I certainly do not, therefore, read the agreement that has been reached as an opening up of Europe's borders. On the contrary! It is an attempt to create orderly relationships where there isn't. That is quite correct, as Mr. Søren Espersen says that today, as a Danish company, you can get foreign employees, but there are some reasonably restrictive requirements that must be met, including some income requirements. One must therefore be quite well paid in order to hope to be able to enter and work for a period of time in Denmark, and at least it is something that Danish business is deeply concerned about, and both Danish Industry and Danish Businesses, and I do not know what, have held one conference after another and have asked for it to be easier. So there must be a challenge. It is not something that should stand instead of getting more Danes to work, because we still have a few Danes we also need to work, but there is ample need for both. Today, as a result of this agreement, 3,800 people who lived in terrible conditions in Libya have flown to their home countries, away from slave-like conditions, abuse, and what do I know? That's fantastic. There's not in this that there's gonna be 3,800 the other way, as I read it. But I am reading, and I think that is what Mogherini thinks African countries want stronger cooperation, that if there are citizens who want to look for jobs in our part of the world, it must be easier and simpler to go to, and I really see nothing but that we all have a great interest in that happening.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131215	Then it is the honourable Member, Mr President. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131219	Thank you. The radical rapporteur, who, in many ways, made an excellent speech, talks about defence reconciliation, and he garneres it with a rhetoric that he has spent a great deal in this whole process, namely that less money must be spent on gunpowder and bullets and more money on preventive interventions and humanitarian aid. So is it that my questions are: if you look at the proposal the government has made, is it anything but gunpowder and bullets? Is there anything else in this and do you have a radical idea that you can radically change the balance between gunpowder and bullets and another form of security policy? And if we fail to do so, will we still join in a defence settlement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131307	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131309	Unfortunately, we are the only party currently sitting around the table, perhaps apart from the Liberal Alliance, which is very much concerned with preventive and stabilising efforts internationally, so I do not think I can guarantee that we will be able to change the whole package. It would not be entirely democratic either. However, I certainly have the expectation that we will get a very large print, in the sense that when we leave the negotiating table, hopefully with a joint settlement, there will be a significantly more funding available for preventive and stabilising interventions than would otherwise have been the case. I have that expectation, and it will also be very important to see whether we can ultimately see ourselves in a defence settlement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131351	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131357	This means that one has the idea that less money should be spent on gunpowder and bullets and more money on stabilising interventions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131410	That's correct. We have done so in public, so I can say that here too. Our starting point has been the desire to double the framework for the environment, peace and stability, or at least earmark some of the funds we allocate to international operations, for peace and stability efforts. It is simply because our basic idea is that action may be necessary. I have basically the same scepticism as Mr. Søren Espersen to see how much it is worth and to say that you have to think crazy well before you do it. But what I am quite sure of is that if one chooses to take a strong approach and has not previously thought about stabilizing action to prevent new conflicts, it will certainly not do any good.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131452	Thank you. There are no more brief remarks to Mr. Martin Lidegaard, and then we go to the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201131513	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which I think in many ways is a fine document which is worth discussing. Denmark is a small state, we are a small country, and one can always ask whether a small state should even deal with foreign policy and spend as much money on what we do, etc. Can we have influence? Yes, the starting point is that we can do that and that we can get it because we are in alliances. We can't do it ourselves, but we can do it with others, the ones we go with. That is the whole idea of Danish foreign policy, and that is also what permeates this statement. It is the Nordic co-operation, which is not mentioned much in the statement, unfortunately, and I think this is a pity, because it is part of the overall Danish foreign and security policy; it is the European Union through the EU; it is the transatlantic through NATO; and it is the global through the UN, that is, a number of organisations where we, together with other countries, can go out and influence the world that surrounds us. This is a right and good starting point for Danish foreign policy, which we fully share, and it is also important that we take these alliances seriously. In this context, too, a little heart sigh: it happens regularly that the national debate, which can sometimes become ample populist, can actually have consequences for our foreign policy position. I am thinking in particular of the fact that the decision to stop quota refugees for Denmark has major consequences for our relations with the United Nations and major consequences for the United Nations. It is a completely central part of Danish foreign policy since 1945 that the United Nations is very important, also that we are responsible for the work of the United Nations, including the taking of quota refugees; after all, it was a Danish High Commissioner, Poul Hartling, who carried it out at the time. We have put great emphasis on it. In other words, it does indeed matter, I think, when the Danish Government has some agendas at home to satisfy the parliamentary basis, it has implications for our foreign policy. It could also have been dealt with a little more in this statement. If we then look at the problems and threats we are facing right now, I think we will see that most of us are very concerned about what is happening on the Korean peninsula and that there are two not very predictable personalities to each other, Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump. It may then be that you are dealing with such two personalities that are not so predictable some would use stronger expressions about them but the problem is here that they have nuclear weapons, and that is why I think we also have to think about this kind of conflict in the Danish foreign policy context. After all, nuclear weapons are not there to be used, if I may say so, they are a political weapon, but I think what if it gets out of control and if you have some erratic people facing each other? We can be happy that there were some sane people in 1962 during the Cuban crisis; we can be happy that there were both Kennedy and Khrushchev who pulled themselves together and actually prevented it, because we were very close to a nuclear war there. In this situation, there are two personalities, Kim Jong-un and Donald Trump, who do not have the thoughtfulness, and therefore it can become life-threatening. This certainly leads me to say that I perhaps think that the government should have made a little more of disarmament in this statement, and especially in the nuclear field, for example. that we are dealing with the UN nuclear ban treaty, which Denmark would not agree with, and that the argument for that was that this sort of thing belongs to the NPT. This argument can in fact be discussed, and under certain conditions it also has a certain rationale in itself, but in the NPT field one is not particularly active on the Danish side either. So at the moment nothing is going on about disarmament in the nuclear field • Obama took it up when he became president, he forgot it rather quickly, unfortunately, but I do think that there may well be some forces, some countries that take up that agenda in various international forums, and in particular do so at the moment, when it actually seems to me to be becoming increasingly present, unfortunately. That also leads me to say that, of course, we also have to assess relations with the United States after Trump has been elected President, that cannot be all, but it does mean a great deal at the moment, even in relation to the Middle East, where there is a great risk of direct conflict between Saudi Arabia and Iran, and the United States has a great responsibility for this because all its eggs have been put in Saudi Arabia's basket, while threatening Iran with everything. It can also be fatal to all of us. So there we have to think about foreign policy, towards a little more independent from the United States. The Foreign Policy Name was here in China and Japan not long ago on an excellent trip, where we got the impression that China is a power that we have to take far, far more into thinking. Sir. Henrik Dahl mentioned that the plates are shifting, that the tectonic plates are moving out at the moment, and it is very much about Asia, how Asia is becoming far, much more central. What do we do there? Don't we have a policy on that change? I may be missing that, and I hope that we will get it a little more developed. I regard a broad approach to security policy as important. Climate policy, as others have mentioned, is an extremely important part of security policy, as is the problem of refugees, inequalities globally, including the new conflicts, which are not military and which come up around cyber, etc. That then makes me say that we have to discuss the rationale of the very military security policy that Denmark has been responsible for, at least since we joined the Iraq War in 2003, where we have spent enormous resources on war in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, etc. We need to have an analysis of this: have all the resources we have used economically, in terms of human lives, been worth the effort? Has the output, the result we have got out of it, been worth the price it has cost? There I think, if we think a little about it, we have to say to ourselves: no, it hasn't. It hasn't. After all, we have not achieved what we wanted, either in Iraq or Afghanistan, not at all in Libya, etc. When I think about how much money we have spent on it and how that money could have been spent alternatively, should we at least not have a discussion on how we might use the resources a little differently from the Danish side? I mean, we should be committed, but is this the right way we have been, and should we perhaps not think a little differently in our security policy? It is a lot about getting a smaller, if I may say so, militaristic approach to it, a less belief that military solutions are an advantage. Military solutions are always a bad solution, but it can be the least poor one. That is why we are not opposed to military solutions either; we actually supported the air operation in Syria because it was necessary to turn Islamic States away at that time, and especially in relation to the Kurdish territory. But we are very critical of the deployment of ground troops, because if you do not have a proper enemy image, it is very difficult. Finally around Greenland and the Arctic: Denmark is a small state, but if we include Greenland, we are actually a quite large country, and to the extent that we have foreign policy capital, it is Greenland. That's to say what it is. That is why we are being taken seriously in a number of places. Therefore, I may not quite understand that one is not a little more aware that if this is to be done sensibly, we need to have a little more offensive, direct contact with Greenland's self-government about foreign policy. We are discussing a lot with us our role in the Arctic Council, Arctic 5, and how we have an Arctic policy, we are doing so behind defence policy, but basically it is about getting an interaction with the Greenlanders, which is why I would like there to be a little more thoughtfulness, reflection, also in the Danish government, and also in the Greenlanders themselves, in order that it can be constructive and positive.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132546	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132551	Now SF isn't gonna be in the settlement this time, but about that gunpowder and bullet discussion, I have to say, I don't understand it at all. If not a military budget has to do with gunpowder and bullets, what does that have to do with? We have other elements, we have development aid and civil preparedness, which together may amount to 17-18 billion. kr. Isn't that all? It can be said that we are doing a great deal already, including in this regard. And why can it not be that a military budget has to do with good material and talented soldiers? Then I don't understand anything anymore.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132645	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132646	No, this goes a little into the discussion that I had with Mr. Martin Lidegaard before. I am not going to go into how the negotiations are taking place in the defence committee right now, but my question sounded a little different. It was: Wouldn't it be relevant if Mr. Søren Espersen and he did so himself, when he stood up here, did a major analysis of whether it has been worth the price to use so many military resources in the Middle East? Has it been worth the price? Couldn't they have been used differently? And is that something we should be looking at further? There are a number of considerations in this statement about how to do things differently and a little better, but should we be there militarily in the way we are there at the moment, in the Middle East? And if we should not, then there is no basis for rethinking our security policy instruments, for example. in relation to the Middle East, so that it becomes much more stabilisation, humanitarian aid, etc.?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132743	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132745	Again, I think it's a special way of setting it up. For the civilian part, for example, was granted. in Afghanistan with the construction of schools and the opportunity for girls to go to school, which will certainly not happen when the Taliban takes over again, even it is not worth it? Well, I don't think you can make it up that way. When you engage in another country, whether military or civilian, you will make big mistakes. The reason why we used to act militarily in Afghanistan, I do not think there is any doubt about that, was that there was a threat, yes, even an attack on a NATO country. It's another discussion, but we always make mistakes in these things, whether it's civil or military.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132832	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132834	That's where I think the chain's gonna jump off for mr. Søren Espersen. It is true that in 2001 it was after 11 September, but when we joined the ISAF in 2005 I myself was the rapporteur at the time, it was much more about a stabilisation effort, and it was the one that has caused the very big problems. It was supposed to be a stabilisation effort which, one could almost understand, had to have a civilian purpose, build schools and support the government of Kabul, etc., but very quickly it became a direct war. Why did this happen? How did this happen? Should we not analyse it a little more thoroughly, also in order to ensure that we do not make the same mistake again?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132921	Thank you, sir. Holger K. Nielsen. So I would like to know if anyone would like to speak on behalf of the Conservative People's Party? There isn't. Then I would like to welcome our honourable Member from Greenland, Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, who will be 40 years old tomorrow. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201132938	Thank you. In Greenland we usually say that the day before your birthday, you smell, so I think that I do today. But thank you very much. I would also like to thank the government for this statement, based on the foreign and security policy strategy. When we had the debate last year, there was a broad desire for a more forward-looking strategic debate on the foreign and security policy situation. We think this is important, because these debates should not be based on more backward-looking statements, but rather have a more forward-looking focus. It is important that we here in the Danish Parliament also deal with the trends of the future and with developments in the world community as a whole. That is why I would like to thank the government for this statement and, with our comments, we will try to give an input to the debate with a more forward-looking focus. Over the past many years, the Arctic has received greater attention in the world community. The Arctic has also received this from the government. The Arctic is among the top five in the government's own foreign and security policy strategy for 2017-18. That is, of course, the last point of the strategy, but it is nevertheless included. The government has also carried out an Arctic analysis for the future tasks of the defence, and the government has created a strategy for education and research in the Arctic. Today, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, together with Naalaksuisut in Greenland, is hosting an event on the UN's global goals in the Arctic. Meeting the UN's global goal of less inequality and sustainable cities and communities is an important prerequisite for growth in the Arctic. In the rest of this rapporteur's speech, I would like to give my opinion on what we from Inuit Ataqatigiit also consider to be the prerequisites for a growing Arctic. Attention in the Arctic has gone from a primary focus on climate change and a magnificent nature, which we also have in Greenland, to also focus on economic development and on the people, who in my view make up the Arctic to a large extent. In the Arctic, it is important that we show the way in terms of being able to balance between sustainability and business development. If we focus solely on the full protection of the environment and nature, we are setting our feet for an Arctic in development. Often we see that these well-meaning advocates that everything in the Arctic should be protected are not part of the Arctic, but often live outside the Arctic. One of those examples is the somewhat misunderstood protection of whales, as seen from Brussels these days. Inuit Ataqatigiit therefore urges the government to support Greenland's efforts to make sustainable catches on whales and thus, in their statements to both the EU and the International Whaling Commission, IWC, take care of Greenland and the interests of the whole Kingdom community. We must pave the way for economic development, and here it is important to have a strengthened dialogue and a joint effort to create growth in the Arctic. A strengthened effort in the Arctic Council and, in particular, the Arctic Economic Council, must continue to take place in a very close dialogue with the Naala Suisut and with even greater involvement of Greenland's business community than is the case today. If there is to be real growth and economic development in the Arctic, it is essential that we ensure more investment. The development of airports in Greenland must help ensure more tourists to Greenland, and with new infrastructure it requires capital injections. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we believe that economic diplomacy needs to be increased, which it is quite obvious to work with Denmark on. Together, we can more proactively pursue an export and investment promotion policy using both existing forums such as the Export Council and newly established organisations and tools. I am therefore also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs reports in the statement that the government is helping to uncover the possibility of establishing a new Arctic financing facility. With regard to growth in the Arctic, there are a number of prerequisites that precede it. A well-educated population is very much a prerequisite for a growing Greenland, an Arctic in growth, and the same is true for our Arctic neighbouring countries, where a trained population is the key to development in the same way. If we are to become more self-supporting in Greenland and the Arctic, it is crucial that more people get an education. We in Greenland have a very great responsibility to strengthen the primary schools if we are to have significantly increased the level of education in Greenland. At the same time, it is important that we can attract young people who choose to go out to study after finishing education, and we have to see across the Arctic countries that there are many young people who travel south to Oslo, to Toronto or to Copenhagen to get an education and that not everyone is returning. That is why it is also important for our young people to see prospects in coming back to the Arctic and contributing to the development that is going to take place there. It must be attractive to work in the Arctic, which we, as politicians, must also support. The Government's Arctic research strategy for 2016 calls for stronger efforts in relation to Arctic research, education and innovation. A strengthened international collaboration between Greenlandic, Danish and foreign research environments will benefit all parties, and the proposal for an Arctic research hub in Greenland will strengthen this cooperation and help anchor research in Greenland. One of the things the strategy also envisages is an analysis of the relatively high apostasy that is among Greenlandic students in Denmark, and we also think that we should focus more on this. If I go back to foreign policy and security policy, and perhaps especially defence and security policy, then it is also relevant to mention that we from Greenland and Inuit Ataqatigiits want a peaceful Arctic. We see this as fundamental to ensuring an Arctic in growth. That is why security in the Arctic should also be at the heart of the future defence settlement. In Inuit Ataqatigiit, we believe that it is quite obvious today to use the new conciliation as an opportunity to ensure a more locally anchored defence in Greenlandic society. Today we see that there are too few people from Greenland employed in the defence and in the Arctic Command, despite the fact that many otherwise possess the competences, characteristics and local knowledge that can help strengthen the defence's task solution throughout the country. And we believe that we should change that with the coming defence settlement. In Greenland, defence mainly solves civilian tasks such as fisheries inspection, support for scientific expeditions, search and rescue services (Search and Rescue), marine surveying, environmental monitoring and pollution control. It is especially here that it is obvious to involve and train more Greenlanders in the defence in Greenland. Specifically, we propose that the Day of Defence be held in Greenland, that a civil defence training be established in Greenland, where local young people can voluntarily take a defence training based on Greenlandic conditions and train in Greenlandic conditions, and that a voluntary team be set up which can relate in an organised and structured way to the voluntary work that is already being done today when accidents occur. In general, it can be said that there must be a focus on a more locally anchored defence, but in this international cooperation, which is also extremely important for Greenland, it is also important to have useful competences so that you can meet the demands made in preparedness and defence. In conclusion, I would like to thank you for the debate and I would like to emphasise that our common objective must be a sustainable and secure Arctic which is constantly in positive economic growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201133849	Thank you to Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. There are no brief comments. And then we turn to the honourable ministers. The first is the Foreign Minister, who is welcome on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201133908	Thank you. And thank you for a very, very good debate. One has to say that we are getting far around, and it can be no different, because Denmark is a small country and the world is great. And there's really, really much moving around the world, whether it's the tectonic plates that Mr. Henrik Dahl was talking about, or something in the very near. A great deal is happening, and so it can be said that this is reflected in the government's foreign and security policy strategy, which applies precisely to 2017-2018. That means there's a new one coming. And it can't be any different in a world that moves as fast as it does. It is difficult to make long-term statements, which you can be sure will apply 5 years later. We saw it most recently when we received the much-mentioned Taksøe report, which came in May 2016, I think it was where Brexit and Trump were barely mentioned, which then came immediately after. This is how fast things are going, even when some of our greatest thinkers in the field sit down and try to look in the crystal ball and try to see how we can possibly rethink our foreign and security policy strategies. In the strategy for 2017-2018, we have chosen to focus on five main issues: firstly, migration, instability and terrorism; secondly, security in the neighbourhood; thirdly, Brexit and the future of the European Union; fourthly, globalisation and economic and technological diplomacy; and fifthly, the Arctic. One can always discuss the order of priority, that is to say how much is expressed in terms of priorities or not. Some rapporteurs and, in particular, a rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen has said that we only play a role in world politics because of the Arctic. Otherwise, nobody listens or looks to Denmark. I actually disagree. I agree that we play a major role, among others. Because of the Arctic, but I do not agree that, apart from it, no one is looking to Denmark. I believe that the foreign and security policy which has been pursued for many years and which, moreover, I would like to acknowledge and also take part in the praise of the parliament generally has very broad support, has led Denmark, to use an American presidential concept, punches above its weight. And that is absolutely right. That is also what is expressed in what Mr. Henrik Dahl talks about the fact that, when you get around the world, there is seen and nodded with great recognition to the efforts that we make and the sacrifices that we also make around the world, among other things. which we saw not least in Afghanistan. We are nodded to this, and we are also nodded to the efforts of our soldiers here and now, among other things. in Iraq, their professionalism and their ability not only to have a deep understanding of where one comes from, but at the same time to understand where one comes to, and to produce results that may be greater than what others can deliver, in relation to the size of the contributions that we make. There are a number of areas where we, it may be said, the government has changed or tightened the course, and we have generally done so in close cooperation with the Danish Parliament's parties, also in the last year, where I have had the honour and the pleasure of being Denmark's Foreign Minister. In relation to Russia, which has been mentioned by many, I can say that it is true that we are walking on two legs. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party spoke about this and also acknowledged that it is the right approach. Of course, we think so too. On the one hand, we have the sanctions policy and we can always discuss whether the sanctions are working or not working. Sir. Søren Espersen also mentioned that there are examples that sanctions have most likely had an effect, for example. in relation to South Africa, which was mentioned as an example. On the other hand, we use every place we can get away with it, that we have a dialogue with the Russians. This is among other things. through Arctic cooperation. I myself have attended meetings both in Arkhangelsk in northern Russia and in Fairbanks, both with the participation of the Russian Foreign Minister, and this of course gives us some opportunities. And I think it was sir. Martin Lidegaard, who said that we are sitting in all these places as we are doing, whether it is Arctic cooperation, it is NATO, it is the United Nations, it is the European Union. We're everywhere, and we're probably the only nation that's everywhere. It is clear that it also gives us some opportunities. However, we are also here to back up the call for us to be involved in NATO's advanced presence in relation to the Baltic States. Is that an escalation? Yes, it is in itself because you are helping to send forward forces, but it is, of course, in order to descale the conflict, and I believe that it is working. It seems, in terms of getting isolated and focusing on the fact that we are united, that we are getting clear signals about it, and it is being taken down, I am sure, also from the Russian side, despite those who I think it was the Danish People's Party's rapporteur who used the expression, annoying ways that the Russians are behaving at the moment, and I completely and completely agree with that. Another area on which the government has focused a great deal and which has also been affected today is Brexit, which is one of our greatest foreign policy challenges and which has a number of tentacles in a wide range of areas. Specifically, it is true that we have some commercial interests, not least in relation to agriculture and fisheries and to having a classic ally that leaves a cooperation. That is why I myself took part in a series of alliance journeys, that is to say, attempts to find out if there are other places where we can find someone to work with when one of our allies disappears. But it also has some very concrete challenges in relation to a country such as Ireland and Northern Ireland, that is to say bordering. I know that many from the Folketing have been over there and have themselves observed how difficult the situation becomes as a consequence of Brexit. Nordic co-operation was also affected, and it may be somewhat in line with that with the European Union. In any case, in my own family we have a classic and long history as far back as the discussion on Nordek and the EC: what should be chosen? Which way? It was then not Nordek, and it was the Finns in particular who had to give up at the last minute under the influence of Soviet pressure, and it became the EC instead. What's up? Can we use Nordic co-operation? Yeah, at least that was some of the points I made myself when I entered the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the first day. Maybe one of them. in writing. - (FR) For family history, for historical reasons, I think that there is some romance in it and something obvious with culture, one has the same cultural background, etc. So perhaps we could use it to a greater extent, and I think we are doing so in a great many areas too, and then we will just have to see that the illusions are being broken. We saw that, among other things. at the latest in relation to EMA, in relation to where it was located. Had there been a strong Nordic cooperation that had reached out, EMA would have ended up in Copenhagen. I am absolutely convinced of this, and it would have been in the interests of both Copenhagen and Malmö, and I believe that the banking agency had ended up in Ireland as well. Unfortunately, it did not end that way, so this is an example that it is not on the Danish side that it lacks the will to do something in that area. We need to get the Brexit country in a sensible way, and we need to move on from there. This includes, among other things: also that we need to use Brexit to become more focused on how we use European work. European work must be focused where it brings added value to citizens and not spread out in all sorts of other areas. Turkey is another example that has also been addressed in the debate. The Prime Minister and I ourselves have made a clear recommendation that there should be a full stop to continuing the idea of Turkey's accession to the European Union, and we criticise Turkey in the places where we should do so, while also knowing that we have necessary and close cooperation with Turkey, for example. in relation to closing and maintaining a closure of the Western Balkans route. In relation to human rights raised by the Enhedslisten, the whole point of this, as the Socialist rapporteur has also explained, is an attempt to protect and protect human rights and, now that we have the Presidency of the Council of Europe, we are discussing what it is like: should it be an activist court that should put the line, or should it be politicians who should put the line here? That is what this is all about, and that is what we will hopefully succeed in, so that we can have popular support for the whole area. It is important that we succeed in doing so. In the Middle East we are present and I have spoken about it and we are here, among other things. to ensure that the flow of refugees stops. Fortunately, we have also seen a decline in the number of refugees on two of the routes that exist and, unfortunately, an increase on the third route from 11 000 to 22 000, I think, over the past year. But resisted the big fall that has been on the other two routes, it was a clear and marked fall that is happening at the moment. It does, among other things. I am sure that the Minister for Development will also discuss later on where we have focused on the fact that we have development aid, and it should be used as a springboard for that, as we do, for example. have seen in Ghana, where I was down last week with the queen, where we go from AIDS to trade. The aim is, of course, that you take up the next leap and become part of the middle class, and when you become part of the middle class, the pressure to leave a country will also fall, thereby helping to solve one of the challenges that Mr. Søren Espersen also mentioned. The United States: I have said several times in the past that the United States consists, American presidents come and go, and we have to deal with the American President who is sitting at all times, and so do we. I think I made some of the points that have been raised in the debate, and otherwise, of course, I would like to take this opportunity to discuss them in more detail on the issues that may come up. We have also agreed to distribute some time between the two ministers present today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201134955	But we have also saved 9 minutes and 13 seconds for the Minister of Development. And then we have a few brief comments to make to the Secretary of State. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135007	Thank you. It can be said that it is the case with the European Court of Human Rights that if you disagree with its interpretations, such as the fact that homosexuals also have the right to marry, then, as countries, you can collect and draw up a protocol, a convention, against it. It is an opportunity that you have as countries. So I'm just not buying this thing about being powerless as a politician. On the other hand, I am extremely surprised that the Foreign Minister, in his capacity as chairman of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, has, over the next six months, been indulging in this fight against the Court of Human Rights and, unfortunately, has received the support of the Hungarian Government, which, frankly, is suffering human rights. I find that worrying. At the same time, we have a situation in which the Danish Government both refuses to sign, but also refuses to ratify this Protocol 16 to the European Convention on Human Rights. So what is it that makes the government sit on the hands of a concrete constructive, positive reform of the work of the Court of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135137	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135138	First of all, I completely disagree with the fact that we are taking part in a fight against the Court of Human Rights. In fact, we are trying to protect the Court of Human Rights, so it will be there in both 5, 10 and 20 years' time, and we will not end up in a situation where there will be such a great popular uprising against certain judgments that are handed down that it will end up undermining the entire judicial system. In fact, I think it is timely care to enter into that discussion. I also believe that it is being recognised very, very many places. Then it is asked about Protocol 16, where you can say that there are two votes missing for it to come into force. There is also the second Protocol 15, I think it is called. Unanimity is required for it to be adopted. There, some national considerations can be more taken into account in the judgments handed down. Both are being looked at very carefully by the government, and we will come back to that in connection with our Presidency.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135235	Well, thank you. It's just that it seems a little absurd. We are blowing to a huge attack and, yes, I call it an attack when we are harshly criticising the Court of Human Rights and even doing so in cooperation with some countries which really do have a human rights problem and which, I believe, should be pressured to live up to their obligations. At the same time, we are not doing what is perfectly logical: we are simply signing and ratifying that protocol and making other countries do the same. It's not due diligence in my world. But I would like to hear something from the Secretary of State. He says he is tired of these judgments and says that there is a very great deal of opposition to human rights, which is not something I feel. In any case, I do not encounter criticism on the streets and strides of human rights from ordinary Danes. What exactly are the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, of which the Minister for Foreign Affairs is tired?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135328	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135330	Once again, I think it is a rather unfortunate way of discussing this by saying that we do so in close cooperation, and then one or two countries are mentioned. We're going to discuss this with everyone during this period. We have a conference that will take place within the next month, I think, in Kokkedal, where we have a first expert hearing on this to get deeper into it. There can be no doubt that there is an ongoing discussion in the public debate. It is there in relation to some of the judgments that are handed down, where we have had examples of people that we would rather see the heel than the toe of. There are, of course, two sides of that coin. One side is, of course, whether we ourselves have done our legwork well enough on the Danish side. And then there is the other side of it: if we have had a misconception of what we can and what we cannot do, what do we have to do with the misconceptions? Or is it because there has been a practice that means that we are thinking in advance that we cannot quite get through with the line that we really want? That's where, among other things. Protocol 16 comes in as an example which could be a way in, in other words, where you get access to hear from the Court of Human Rights before you end up with the final clarification. All of this is going to go deeper into the work that has already been started.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135452	Sir. Holger K. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135454	I think it is gratifying that the Minister said that he is pleased with Nordic co-operation. It is perhaps a little too bad that it was then not more highlighted in the statement. But it may also be a pity that he is taking up the matter of the Agency again. I simply do not quite understand that. I was aware that this was a closed vote, which was voted on, as is the case in other assemblies. It may be rare in the European Union in this way. But there was a vote in a secret, closed vote. Finally, Denmark lost. It was a long way up to Boat No. 1 and No 2. And whether the Swedes had voted differently, it hadn't really mattered whether Denmark had got it or not. That is why I do not understand why the Minister went out with the heavy attack on Sweden. How does this help Nordic cooperation in the future? I think that was deeply, deeply strange and reasonably uniplomatic, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135612	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135613	I stand by it completely, as I said after the course there was. We've spent a lot of resources. Many countries do. There were a lot of people who wooed to get this agency, and I would just like to point out that we were among the top three countries. So we were very, very close. One of the things that could have led to this was, of course, better coordination between, among others. the Nordic countries and the alliances that we could have built up. We were very, very close to succeeding with it. It is, of course, always a balancing act, because we wanted it to be in Copenhagen, and the Swedes wanted it to be in Stockholm. Could a solution be found? One of the proposals that came from Denmark was at one point in time that there were also reactions from the Swedish side to working together, which went across the bridge, Malmö-København, for the benefit of the southern Swedes, who certainly responded positively to it, and of course for the benefit of Denmark. Now we ended up in a situation where we were split up. And no, there wasn't going to be a lot of votes until there was a completely different outcome. Then we would have been in the finals against the Italians, and there we would have won. That's the way it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135727	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135731	Well, it is not true that we would have come to the final if Sweden had voted for Denmark. Now I do not remember the figures, but that is not true, I would say to the Minister that this was the case. Then the Minister says that we could have created alliances and that it could have created a different situation. Yeah, maybe, but he doesn't know that. I fully agree with all the considerations he has about the advantages for Denmark and Sweden, both of them, and that it was not particularly appropriate for the Swedes not to work better together. Yes, yes, but now we had lost that vote. Then why go forward with those very negative remarks compared to a good neighbor? If you want to get Nordic co-operation up and running, it is totally unnecessary and an expression that you might have been a bad loser. I do not think that this is a particularly favourable situation either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135821	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135822	No, we weren't a bad loser, we were almost a winner. I think it is important not only to have toasts about Nordic co-operation, but also to be able to grab hold of each other, just to tear each other's ears when you can clearly see that it is not going to be more than the bowl speakers. We didn't coordinate it well enough, and it had made a difference. Because it had not just been 1 Swedish voice that had then been moved, but there had been more votes that had been moved and thus we had ended up in another situation. So we were very close, and it was actually just the Nordic co-operation that failed, and it did to me that we did not achieve it. And that's really too bad. It would have been a huge gain for all of us if it had succeeded. So it's really just a call for • and then we're on the line, I can hear that we need to strengthen Nordic co-operation. We need to get better at coordinating these things and not just leave it at the bowl speeches. But it also requires that we say it quite clearly when we think that it failed here. And here it just didn't work out. I also have the impression that there is a great deal of agreement in southern Sweden, i.e. that it was a biscuit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135925	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201135929	Thank you. The Foreign Minister now mentioned that he was looking forward to a conference in Kokkedal on the Council of Europe. That conference has then been held and I had the experience to attend it. Now it cannot be quoted from it, because it was like part of the rules of that conference, but I would probably not say too much if I quote myself as saying that I do not believe that the government there was in favour of a change in the direction that the government was talking about. But this will probably be reflected in the minutes drawn up by the working party responsible for the conference. What I find interesting is not that the government will be working on that field. It's kind of okay if you want them. That is the priority. So we are in a situation where large countries have massive human rights problems. Developments in Turkey with hundreds of thousands of people who have been fired or imprisoned or put under administration etc., it affects a lot of things. We are a situation in which the two major payers to the Council of Europe, Turkey and Russia have decided that they will no longer pay, with the result that we must find a solution if we want to preserve the European human rights system with the Council of Europe and the Convention, etc. What is then given priority by the Danish Government is a question of a relatively limited importance, what should we say, in which, moreover, it has not done its homework well enough because it has not taken advantage of the opportunities which lie there. I would just like to ask the Minister to take a position on this priority: when will we, as President, take action against the major problems of the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140126	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140128	One doesn't rule out the other. I am sorry, but I have just returned from eight days' journey to Ghana and India, so I have not been able to obtain the minutes of the conference in question. Sometimes it can feel like you've been gone for 24 hours, and then you realize that it's actually 9 days you've been gone, and that's how it is. But that is just one element in the work that we are now at the forefront of, to find out how to find the right balance. I do not think that one excludes the other, that is, the fact that you go in and try to look at how we can ensure that you land in the right place, because in every court there is a dynamic margin for judgment. Just as the Socialist rapporteur says, it is politicians who set the framework for this, and it has to be. It must ensure that that court is there and that there is respect for it and that human rights exist. This brings me to the second point, because I fully agree with the rapporteur that there are many countries where you can see that these rights come under pressure. But they are only seriously in a terrible situation if the judicial system itself collapses. So there is good sense in the way the government goes about it. I do not need to agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur on this, but that is the way we believe that we are ensuring the long-term.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140252	I certainly should not criticise the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the fact that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not just know that that meeting had been held. What I was just trying to say was how I perceived that meeting. We can discuss that then. However, we cannot discuss that the Council of Europe and the Convention on Human Rights and the Court of Justice are extremely driven by politics and politics. Even if it's the judges, they're politically elected. The judges of the Council of Europe are politically elected. I have been sitting there for many years, and I have not really registered that Denmark has interfered and has gone into that election and has also pointed out that one should choose a certain type of judge who had a certain opinion. That would have been possible. It had been possible to come down and deal with the judgments before they were handed down. This has not been done except in one case. There's Protocol 16, where you have some options. So you haven't done your homework. But what I am actually interested in hearing is: What about the big questions? What initiatives has the government taken in relation to the huge problem that those who are now the big payers to the Council of Europe, Russia and Turkey have decided no longer to pay? What is the government's proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140402	Allow me to remind you on this lovely Friday afternoon that the first line from both sides is 1 minute and the next line is 1⁄2 minute. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140411	Thank you. We are already engaged in a dialogue on the situation mentioned here in relation to the Russians and the Turks. There is no final clarification, because it is also a question of policy here, to see if we can find a way forward that will not undermine the Court of Justice here either, which I agree will be a livelihood if we end up in a terrible situation where they finally withdrew their contribution. So I hope that we will not end up in that situation, and there is no final conclusion to that, as I hear it at this stage. There's a dialogue on these things, and hopefully it ends in the right place. In relation to the minutes of the sitting itself, I would like to say that, since I was not present myself, I shall not make my report yet.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140456	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more brief comments and I understand that the Minister for Defence does not wish to speak. He is certainly not physically present, and that is a prerequisite, so we shall move on to the Minister for Development Cooperation. Then we even save 9 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201140517	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for a very good debate on the government's foreign and security policy strategy. I would just like to say a few words about a single chapter of the strategy, which has been mentioned by several rapporteurs, namely the whole issue of migration. I agree with what has been said by several rapporteurs, namely that migratory flows towards Europe are one of the greatest political challenges facing us. That is why we have addressed it in the foreign and security policy strategy, which clearly shows that we want to reduce the irregular migration and the pressure on refugees against Europe. Looking at the figures, we can see that it appears immediately that the number of migrants against Europe has been reduced, and the number of asylum seekers has also been reduced. In relation to the whole issue of migration, development aid obviously plays an important role as a tool in the foreign policy toolbox. And, of course, with development aid, we can help to address the root causes of migration, in other words, to help create a hope for the future of those people where they are, so that they are not forced to migrate or migrate against Europe because of poverty. So with development aid, we can contribute to investing in job creation and education and entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship and much more, just as with our development aid we can also contribute to fighting for women's rights, including the right to control our own bodies. It may sound like something that may not directly have anything to do with the issue here. But it still does. Indeed, figures show that if only women in a number of developing countries receive the same rights as men, then global GDP will be increased by as much as 25%. And that is why it has something to do with the question here. Having said that, I fully agree with Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen in that development aid alone cannot solve the huge challenge that we face. And that is not the point either. However, with development aid, we can help to create the prerequisite for investing in the private sector, for increasing trade between Europe and Africa or, at the very least, with Africa. So development aid, as I see it, is an essential factor in addressing precisely the root causes of migration. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned an entirely dew-fresh example of how we have actually worked over the years, and there is also the prospect of this in the future, namely in connection with the long-standing cooperation country Ghana, where the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been visiting with the Queen with a major Danish business delegation. I find that very, very gratifying, that is to say that we have reached that point. If we look at the domestic situation, we can see that, fortunately, the tight immigration policy is working. The tight immigration policy, adopted by a broad majority here in the Folketing, seems in such a way that there is a prospect of a transfer of 2.1 billion. kr. I would like to make a few comments on the development budget. And with the additional funds that are likely to be transferred to development aid, we have the opportunity to do more in the world and to support the neighbourhoods, for example. support the neighbouring regions of Syria. It is about helping to carry out the great tasks that Lebanon and Jordan promise, how many refugees are housed. And with our help, hopefully, we can avoid what in this context is called secondary migration, that is, fleeing from the vicinity as a refugee. By helping, we can ensure that there are living conditions that allow you to stay in the vicinity. With the draft budget that is under discussion right now, we have earmarked the largest humanitarian budget ever. That's 2.5 billion. kr. that we have set up will be used in humanitarian aid during 2018. The large amount of money must, of course, be seen in the light of the global situation in which we are currently witnessing no less than 65 million people fleeing from their country of origin to another country or being internally displaced. We know from numbers that if you're on the run, you're typically a refugee for 17 years on average. In other words, we are helping to carry out a huge task. I would also like to say a few words about recent developments and, of course, about the recent summit between Africa and the European Union, where I myself had the opportunity to represent Denmark. The title of the summit was investment in young people, and it actually succeeded in reaching agreement on increased investment in young people in order to help create the hope of a future for the millions of young people who otherwise have no prospect but of unemployment. And it is typically the young people who do not have jobs and therefore do not have the opportunity to try themselves and their family who choose to migrate against Europe. However, the summit agreed on massive investment in job creation, training for young people and entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. The European Union launched a new investment plan that can be compared to our IFU, i.e. an opportunity to form the basis for increased private investment. The summit also took a position on the repatriation of rejected asylum seekers, and what was discussed was fully in line with what has been adopted in the past, among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: In the margins of the Africa-EU summit, agreement was also reached between the European Union, the African Union and the United Nations to take action against the atrocities currently taking place in Libya. A task force has been set up between the EU, the UN and the African Union, and it needs to look at how this can happen. However, I think it is a good thing that the African Union, on behalf of the African countries, has shown responsibility and has agreed to take back the citizens who have been stranded in Libya, where we have witnessed lately that no less than 700,000 stranded migrants are staying under awkward and horrifying conditions, which are totally unacceptable. However, as I said at the summit, there was agreement between the African Union, the United Nations and the European Union and, as I said, I think it is a good thing that the African Union is ready to assume its responsibilities as well. With regard to the United Nations, of course, it is a question of giving the large UN organisations, with their expertise, the opportunity to work in Libya, and Libya has agreed to do so, in other words to allow the international community to do so. The EU's task will be to help ensure that stranded migrants are given the opportunity to return to their home countries in a dignified way. That was just a few comments on my part for the debate here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141452	You're welcome. There are a few brief comments. It is the case that the speech by the Minister for Development gave rise to a few reactions at least a desire to participate in the debate. The first one's from sir. Nikolaj Villumsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141506	Thank you. After all, an important part of the debate on development aid is also the debate on what development aid is like. And the ECE has come up with some new guidelines, and I would just like to hear from the Minister whether the new guidelines will be incorporated into the Government Finance Act for 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141535	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141537	We will, of course, follow the OECD reporting directive, that is, what presupposes what is abandoned as development aid. And it is quite correct, as the questioner says, that there has been a clarification of what we call the DAC directive, because there have been discussions about what could be DAC and what could not be DACe particularly in relation to the costs of receiving asylum. We will continue the practice that Denmark has followed so far, namely to DAC what can be DACed, and we will, of course, adjust our practice according to the new guidelines. It is the case that there will be some expenditure which we now have the opportunity to DACe and which cannot be DACed forward, but then there will be opened up for other expenditure to be DACed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141633	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141635	Thank you. I think I forgot the D in the OECD when I asked the Minister I am sorry, of course. It is quite true that these new clarifications have been made. So just to be absolutely sure: well, it simply comes in the 2018 Finance Act from the government that you follow the new clarification from the OECD?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141654	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141656	Now it is the case that the clarifications have just come into place here a few weeks ago, and we are looking at what this is actually going to mean. So, of course, it is not included in the draft budget, because there has simply been no physical possibility of that, but I can assure you that we will comply with the DAC directive. And it has also been agreed that it can be introduced from 2019, so there is no requirement for it to be introduced in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141733	Thank you to the Minister for Development Cooperation. There are no more brief comments and, as no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. It is a statement, so it is not for the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141746	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 5 December 2017. I give the floor to the rapporteur for the authors of the question, Mr President. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201141821	Thank you, sir. President. See, in March 2017, the President of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, launched his five visions for the future development of the European Union. The visions ranged from a reduced EU built around the single market to a vision of a European Union as a federal state, in which the European Union carries out a very large part of the tasks that are currently being carried out by the Member States. The five visions came to the world on a backdrop of crisis in the European Union in the light of the British referendum of 23 June 2016, the result of which was that the British voted to leave the European Union, an imminent presidential election in which Marine le Pen might be able to become French President, and an American presidential election, the outcome of which had not been as the EU elite would have wished. The European Union was in crisis, as several Heads of State and Commissioners put it, but, as you know, that state of crisis has subsequently been lifted, namely in Jean-Claude Juncker's speech on the state of the Union. Here Juncker said that the crisis was over and that it was now time for the European Union to move forward towards further integration, for example. By joining together the post of President of the Commission and the post of President of the Council, and by the way, he advocated further strengthening European cooperation. When Juncker launched his five visions back in March, it was actually the first time since the Laeken Declaration in December 2001 that the EU allowed the heretical thinking to return power to the EU Member States. That is what many people have forgotten today, in fact part of the background to the convening of the Convention, which wrote the Constitutional Treaty, which, after being voted down in France and the Netherlands with editorial amendments, became a Treaty on which the Danish people were not allowed to vote. As you know, in the Constitutional Convention, the possibility of returning power to the nation states was not seized, rather, on the contrary. However, here in 2017, we have a new opportunity, at least in principle, to stop the gradual take-over of power by the EU countries, but this obviously requires us to seize this opportunity. We have only been very sparingly involved in Parliament's Committee on Europe in the government's deliberations on how to conclude on Juncker's five visions. The government has not asked for a mandate from the Folketing, which could otherwise have been appropriate when we discuss the EU's overall development for the next 10-20 years. That is why we in the Danish People's Party felt it was necessary to call this inquiry debate in order to get the government to involve the Danish Parliament and the Danes in the debate on the direction in which the EU should develop in the years to come. We look forward to hearing what the government and the parliamentary parties have to say to the discussion that has now been opened with Juncker's five visions that power from the European Union can actually be returned to the national parliaments.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201142127	Thank you. And then the trip has come to the Foreign Minister's reply from the platform. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201142140	Thank you. I am pleased to have the opportunity again to discuss European politics with the parties of the Folketing. It is a discussion that the government is in the process of influencing and influencing, which is why it is important for me here once again to explain the main points of the Danish policy, the Danish side. There are a great many indications of how the European Union will develop in the years to come and decades to come. In the spring, the Commission presented a White Paper with five scenarios for the future and with a number of ideas in the major areas. I have been asked about the government's attitude to the scenarios and how the population should be involved. It's really quite simple. Scenarios are a basis for discussion, not a proposal for adoption, and therefore we should not take a position on the scenarios one by one, nor are the scenarios mutually exclusive. The elements from different scenarios can be combined. The Commission states this quite clearly in the White Paper. On the Danish side, we have welcomed the White Paper. It is useful that after Brexit the European Union should take the time for thorough discussions on the future. We should not just pretend that nothing had happened and then put EU cooperation on autopilot, because nobody can have an interest in that. The White Paper has served its purpose in many ways, the debate on the future of the European Union is well under way, and that is why, in my reply, I would like to stress the current EU debate rather than the debate that took place in March when the White Paper came out. The starting point for the government is that the EU is a key part of the solution to many of the challenges that Denmark and Europe face. As the Prime Minister made clear at the opening of the Folketing, the EU is the crucial platform for defending Danish interests in the world, but at the same time it must be a much more focused and more effective EU that we have in sight. Look at all our challenges right now. We have been talking about them just now in the debate that preceded this: terrorism, protectionism, an expansive Russia and a United States that withdraws a little bit, let alone irregular migration; here we need to stand together in Europe, and the European Union is simply part of the solution. Now look at all the possibilities: the single market, where Danish companies can sell without barriers to trade to 500 million consumers. It would be extremely problematic if Denmark were to be outside, and this applies to a whole host of policy areas. Will Denmark, for example? could go alone on the digital agenda? Would we be able to get good free trade agreements with Australia and New Zealand? However, we must also recognise, even if we are actively involved in the debate on all fronts, that there will be some areas where, due to the reservation, we cannot influence the debate to the same extent, yet we must remain vigilant about our interests and move the European Union in the right direction. It is an EU that is big on the big issues and that is small on the small ones. An EU that focuses energy on core tasks: peace, freedom and free trade. And then it is a European Union that spends its time creating concrete results for the benefit of citizens and businesses rather than institutional discussions that take time and effort away from what really matters in everyday life. Only if we keep the European Union on track can we maintain our support for cooperation. In September, Commission President Juncker launched his vision for Europe in his annual speech to the European Parliament on the state of the European Union. It is Juncker's job to set out the vision for the European Union, and we welcome that. We also fully agree with Juncker's strong focus on the common values as the core of the European Union and on his strong focus on, among other things. free trade. Nor should we forget that the Juncker Commission focuses on implementation instead of trying to solve all the problems of new legislation. However, in many areas we are sceptical about Juncker's many visions. I do not think we should waste optimism on lengthy discussions on institutional changes. We are, for example. not supporters of merging the role of President of the Commission with the President of the European Council. The European Council needs a President who speaks for the Member States. After Juncker's speech, French President Macron also launched his vision. A great deal can be said about these, but basically I agree with many of the policy areas on which Macron focuses: economics, security, migration, the deployment of foreigners without legal residence, and a strong EU voice in the world. This does not, of course, mean that all of Macron's concrete proposals are necessarily the right ones to solve the challenges. I think, for example. not that a new common asylum agency is the way forward. Speaking of Macron, I would also like to comment on how I would prefer people to be involved in the debate. Macron's vision, which Juncker has also endorsed, is that the European Union and France are launching a series of so-called democratic conventions that can be held in the countries that want to join. The participants will then have to deal with a set of key issues. That is not the Danish approach, and that is why we are sceptical about the proposal. The debate on Denmark's role in the Europe of the future must be organised in Denmark, not in Brussels or Paris. I believe, from the outset, that we already have a fairly good EU debate in Denmark, both here in the Folketing and in the general public. Both parties and organisations are good at reaching out and debating, for example. in connection with the public meeting on Bornholm. I have also noticed that there were a number of discussions about the European Union when our ambassador was at home in Denmark this summer and met with the public in various connections. The EP's European Committee hosted a public hearing in the spring, and the EP's EU-Information also makes a good effort to inform about the EU and initiate conversation and debate. The new ideas about the future of the European Union are already part of the debate at home, for example. Today here in the Folketing. We will continue to discuss the subject on a regular basis and involve the Danish Parliament as ideas move from abstract to more concrete. I would like to go into some detail about some of the most important areas that are currently being discussed. There is a great deal of focus on the further development of EMU. It is positive that the Commission is focusing on promoting national reforms and on, for example, promoting them. completing the banking union and establishing the capital market union, but the Commission and others also focus on more far-reaching proposals on common financial policy, a euro budget, an EU Minister for Finance and much more. Denmark will not stand in the way if the euro countries decide to strengthen their cooperation, but the government believes that it is an open question how far-reaching proposals on common financial policy, an EU Minister for Finance or a euro budget should contribute to solving the EU's challenges. There is a risk that it will further divide the EU and weaken the countries' incentives for responsible politicians at national level. National reforms and sound public finances, in line with the EU's existing recommendations and rules, are absolutely the most important means of strengthening European economies. And a few words about the social area. The government wants a socially responsible Europe that aims at inclusive growth and where we learn from each other's experiences. Denmark has a lot to offer. We have come a long way when it comes to labour market reform, equality and education. But we must not expect solutions from Brussels in areas where responsibility for action lies primarily with the Member States. The government supports the free movement of labour, for it is a prerequisite for growth and employment in Europe and in Denmark, but the rules must be based on common sense and fairness. In a number of areas, existing EU rules go too far. Welfare benefits must, as far as possible, remain in Denmark and go to those who work to contribute to Denmark for a longer period. If the EU's rules are not seen as reasonable, support for free movement will crumble, and we will not be well served by that. Free trade is high on the EU agenda. The Commission is providing convincing efforts and impetus in the various free trade tracks that Denmark, as an open export-oriented economy, can be very pleased with. Fortunately, many of the world's large markets are queuing right now to conclude agreements with the European Union. We have reached an agreement with Canada, it entered into force in September of this year, and we have reached an ambitious political agreement with Japan. Mercosur countries Mexico, Australia and New Zealand are next. This is extremely important for Danish export-dependent companies. After Brexit, we lose a strong supporter of free trade within the European Union. Open markets and liberal trade policy under increasing pressure from globalisation-sceptic and protectionist forces are one of the things we face. Denmark must therefore work hard in this area to ensure that the EU continues in the right direction. In short, we have plenty of work ahead of us. The government agrees with those who take a positive tone. It is improving economically throughout Europe, growth is increasing and unemployment is falling, and we have seen a significant drop in illegal migration. Our many initiatives have begun to work, but we must constantly make the European Union more focused and effective. At the same time, we have seen since Brexit that support for the European Union in Denmark and in many other places has increased.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201143130	We shall now proceed to the debate, and the first person to speak is Mr Beazley. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party, who is the proposer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201143146	Thank you to the Secretary of State for that. That was not surprising in itself. What was perhaps surprising was this straw-man argument, namely the question of standing alone. But nobody talks about Denmark standing alone on a plow field and looking out over the rest of the world and closing in. We have always advocated cooperation. What we need to be aware of is that this is where we are in a water divide where we have to choose between different roads. And there I found it very difficult to find out exactly what kind of road the government was really going down. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has taken over the rhetoric from the Prime Minister before the Liberal Alliance came into government, namely that the European Union must be big on the big and small on the small. But then it is the question of the definition: What is the big one, and what is the small one? We can go into that in more detail. The funny thing is that, before I went to this debate, I found an old article from 29 December 2016, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who at that time had just become Minister for Foreign Affairs, said about future European policy under the heading: "We are going to see a new European policy for Denmark'. I just have to say, I haven't seen it yet. I do not think so many others do, but of course we will be happy if we see the new European policy at some point. At any rate, it is necessary, because the issue is that in six months a historic crisis has been cancelled in the European Union by the fact that the wind is back on the EU's sail, as Juncker said, and that the European Union has an historic opportunity to establish greater, deeper and more integrated EU cooperation. I think that sounds terrific, to put it bluntly. Nor should it be something that a new Danish European policy could support. I have to say that I am surprised that the Foreign Minister says that the Foreign Minister agrees with much of what Macron spoke about in his Sorbonne speech. Because what exactly was Macron talking about in that Castro speech on the Sorbonne? He said that he wanted all EU countries to join the euro; he wanted to introduce a common financial policy, a common military, a common corporate tax, a common financial tax, harmonised asylum procedures, common European identity documents, common EU border police, common CO2 Then I think you have an idea of what kind of a situation this Macron wants and where the Foreign Ministers agreed with much of what he was talking about. I'm surprised, I have to say. Juncker was thrilled too. He wrote on Twitter immediately after this speech: A very European speech from my friend Emmanuel Macron. Europe needs courage. Thank you for your support for the work of the European institutions. I can't believe Europe needs a different kind of courage. I think that Europe needs a kind of courage that is about us also saying 'no'; that we are also opting out, in relation to what the European Union should be dealing with. And the funny thing is that Europeans agree with me on this. The proportion of EU citizens supporting EU cooperation has been steadily declining since 2004. And in 2016, for the first time, the proportion supporting the EU in the ten largest countries reached less than 50%. According to a study from the Pew Research Center. At home, it is not really much different. Now this study was done at the beginning of the summer, but nevertheless Ritzau caused Voxmeter to conduct a study published on 2 June 2017, which replied 56.3 per cent. by the Danes that they wanted the EU to have less power • less power! There were 20.1% who believed that the EU should have more power than is the case today. And, of course, there were some who were unsolved. I just think that the government should move on to the ball course that is open to say: we also want the European Union to have less power; we also want to address some areas where we say that here the influence must be returned to the nation states. And I have to say, I'm a tiny bit disappointed that we're not hearing from the government today. Against this background, I shall make the following proposals for adoption, and I shall make them on behalf of the Danish People's Party. And the proposal for adoption reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament instructs the government to work for more power to be transferred from the EU and back to the nation states, where the democratic legitimacy to take decisions exists first and foremost. The Folketing instructs the government to work towards setting fence posts for what the EU can and cannot interfere with. Parliament calls on the government to use the launch of Jean-Claude Juncker's five visions to work for a fundamental reform of the EU towards more democratic, slender, transparent, open and economically transparent cooperation. Parliament stresses the importance of involving the population in reflection on the future development of EU cooperation. • V 5. • V 5) • V 5)
ParlaMint-DK_20171201143728	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we will move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Claus Larsen-Jensen from the Social Democratic Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201143751	Thank you. When we discuss the European Union of the future in the Social Democratic Party, the starting point is that we are strong supporters of EU cooperation, because it is of great benefit to Denmark and the Danes. The European Union ensures peace, stability and prosperity in Europe. We must be aware that, in the future, Europe's economy and population are a larger or smaller part of the world where we need to cooperate with our neighbours. All Europeans and European countries face major internal and external challenges that we can only or best solve together with our neighbours. As a small country with an open economy, Denmark benefits greatly from EU membership. 578,000 jobs are directly linked to the export of goods and services. We have expanded our domestic market from 5.8 million to 500 million, living by common rules. We produce goods and services that we sell to the rest of the European Union in the single market for 622 billion. a year. We can use the European Union for international trade agreements. The fact is that without a membership of the EU, Denmark would be in a situation where the standard of living and welfare of the Danes would be inferior. But the European Union must not be just a large internal market and international trade agreements. Social democracy is too equal and fair competition for business in Europe, but this presupposes that there must also be equal and fair conditions for employees in Europe so that the free movement of labour does not lead to social dumping. It is the vision of the Social Democrats that all Europeans and countries in Europe are guaranteed the basis for development, economic and social progress to the level that we know about in Denmark and in the Nordic countries. Social welfare is a universal and cross-border vision for social democracy. Here Denmark can actively contribute models. I would like to point out that the Commission actually refers in some of its proposals for the future to Danish models. We do not know the outcome of the Brexit negotiations, but there is much evidence that it will hit the UK and the people there economically hard. Brexit is a terrifying example of how wrong it is when you choose not to cooperate with those with whom you actually have the greatest intercourse. Brexit has sparked the debate on the future of the European Union: where we want to go with the European Union, what we want to cooperate on and how we want to cooperate? This lies in the five scenarios of the White Paper, and it is likely that there will be a mix of what form you can choose. For social democracy, the single market alone is not sufficient as the European Union, because it will mean that there will be no regard for the environment, the working environment, the climate, employment, education, social development and fair conditions in the labour market. A smaller but more effective European Union sounds to many as attractive, but in practice it excludes a number of areas that the population and a majority of political parties attach importance to. An unchanged EU is not realistic and therefore there is much evidence that, despite Danish reservations, which could point in that direction, we are going to see a multispeed Europe where those who want more can do more. But we will have a divided European Union, we will have a multispeed Europe. We think it is necessary for us to have a proper debate in this House and a frank debate with the people that, in this situation, Denmark risks landing more marginally as a member of the European Union. We see, for example, not only because of our reservations, but also because of the fact that the other countries will cooperate more, that 23 countries will join in joint enhanced cooperation on defence, among other things. two neutral countries Sweden and Finland and 19 euro area countries are talking about closer cooperation. The Commission's proposal for a European pillar may end up with 19, 20, 25 of the other countries. We have our model, our labour market and welfare model, but we will have to consider how it could be arranged in such a way that it does not harm us. From Schengen and euro cooperation, we know that when a number of countries come together and agree something, it often sets the standard for the rest of Europe. We would have liked to have raised this discussion because we should have asked ourselves whether we really think it would be interesting for Denmark to land in a more marginal situation. We are genuinely concerned that because of the fact that other countries are increasing their cooperation in a number of areas, we are reducing our own participation and influence. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Socialist People's Party, the Left, the Conservative People's Party, the Liberal Alliance, the Alternative and Radical Left, I should like to make the following points: proposals for adoption The Parliament considers the debate on the future of the European Union important on top of the UK's decision to leave the EU. The Folketing therefore considers it important and necessary that there be a debate both within the Folketing and among the people about the future of the European Union. The EU is an important platform for defending Danish interests. The decisions taken jointly in the EU on the form of future EU cooperation also have implications for Denmark. The Danish Parliament believes that these proposals and challenges should meet offensively in the debate on this in Denmark. The Danish Parliament considers that there is a need for a broad political debate with the Danish people about the future of the EU and Denmark's position in it. In general, the Danish Parliament considers that the debate on Denmark's role in the future EU should be organised in Denmark and that the ongoing involvement of the Danish Parliament and the public should continue to be in accordance with Danish culture of debate and the Danish EU decision-making procedure and via the Danish Parliament's EU-Information. V 6). Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144400	It inspired a number of colleagues to make some brief remarks. The first is sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144410	Thank you. It is always interesting when there is a new rapporteur. Well, now we're used to listening to Mr. Knox. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, and I must confess that it is my impression that he estimates a tiny bit more skeptical melody than that which Mr. Claus Larsen-Jensen represented. I don't know if this has anything to do with the fact that sir... Claus Larsen-Jensen has a past in the European Parliament. I'll leave that unsaid. I'd like to say to Mr. Claus Larsen-Jensen... that the one about peace and stability and Maybe it lasted until 2015. Then there was an Angela Merkel who opened the gates wide open for influx and mass immigration. We have a situation where we have war in Europe between Ukraine and Russia. So that one with peace, security and stability no longer holds. But there's something I really want to hear. I don't know if sir. Claus Larsen-Jensen is deliberately imprecise in his rapporteur's speech, so I have to ask a very specific question. See, sir. Claus Larsen-Jensen like Denmark closer to the core of the EU, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144514	I'd like to say to Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, that the views I represent here represent the Social Democracy, and they are also comprehensive to Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen and the Social Democratic Parliamentary Group. So there's no variation in it. And that you have been past the European Parliament and gained some experience on having been eight years here, among other things. Most of the time as chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Europe is not something that should count negatively; on the contrary, it should be the case that one had a little more insight into how and how the relationship was between the national and the purely European. At the heart of the European Union? Well, I see us as part of the core of the European Union. We also believe that we should be part of the core. I have noted that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in some recent interview, among others. has said that it depends on what is really at the heart, and that is, of course, true. But what is really at the heart of what I am trying to say here is that we actually think it is a great advantage for Denmark that we are a member of the European Union, and we would like to say that to the Danish people. We have so much economy and we have so many jobs out of being part of the European Union. We also have a massive influence on the European Union. The developments that are taking place as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon mean that we should be discussing, not just in our areas of reservation, we know the discussion in the area of justice about Europol • whether we are landing in a marginalised situation. This also applies to some of the new areas. And there is my message in this sense that let us have a frank discussion of what it means to us, negative and positive, and we must also think about how we could, in a good Danish pragmatic way, find an appropriate position in relation to future developments. That's kind of what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144702	I recognise that these are quite complex things we are discussing and that it is very difficult in one minute to put into a small box, but I would urge it anyway. Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144712	I'm trying to make it by 30 seconds. Since mr. Claus Larsen-Jensen was a member of the Folketing last time, I now have the impression that something of a change of mood has taken place, after all, in relation to the European Union, at least partly with the Social Democratic Party. But I would like to know whether the Social Democrats are still in favour of abolishing reservations, for example. Is that unanticipated? Is it unthinkable that we should be part of the core? We are not discussing membership of the European Union, because we are discussing the direction of the European Union. And there it might be interesting to find out whether social democracy has changed course. That was very unclear in relation to what Mr. Claus Larsen-Jensen said.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144750	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144755	However, I think it is quite crucial that we read the Socialist programme of principles and the section of Europe which has just been adopted here not so terribly long ago. That's very good in line with this. However, what the questioner refers to is that we have a focus on the fact that there are some areas that are not in balance in the EU context. After all, there is no point in there being an economic and social inequality in Europe which is enormous. It is no good for us to have freedom of movement unless, at the same time, there are equal and fair conditions vis-à-vis employees. It also offers unfair competition in relation to business. That is what I am saying, and that is where scepticism and criticism lie. But it is on the basis of helping to develop the policy and getting things right within the framework.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144841	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144843	Thank you, President. I listened forward to the fact that Mr. Claus Larsen-Jensen and the Social Democrats are in favour of a multispeed Europe, whatever that means. It may be that one has not reasoned on it yet, i.e. whether the Social Democratic Party believes that Denmark should be in the elite and among those who have a jet engine towards the United States of Europe, or that it is perhaps a more moderate pace to move. But what I'd like to hear about, too, if you don't mind, sir. Claus Larsen-Jensen can reply to the first question I asked about, because then I would also like to have an answer to this question: when the Social Democracy has reached a conclusion on whether it should be ultra-fast or whether it should be at a more moderate pace, does the rapporteur also think that referendums are a good instrument to reconcile, whether what the government and the majority of parliament think is in line with what the Danes are saying? We have seen in several previous referendums that the majority of the Folketing and the government have been completely out of line with what the Danes are saying about the European Union and the degree of integration. So does the Social Democrats think that referendums are a good instrument that needs to be used more forward-looking?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201144949	In other words, referendums are used in cases where, under the Constitution, we have to exercise jurisdiction, and that is the way it is. And here it is not relevant to raise that discussion at all, because it is not a topical issue. What I am saying is, in fact, that we have a multi-speed European Union, in that there is something that we do not participate in. There are 23 countries participating in the new defence cooperation, and the rest do not. With regard to the social pillar, it is proposed that it should be the 19 euro countries, but that more can choose it. What I am saying is: let us now have a proper discussion in this House and with the people about whether, when other countries go further in some areas, we should be involved or whether we should not be involved and how and how; then we should get rid of ourselves. That's why Mr. Mikkel Dencker too far ahead in drawing a conclusion and saying that that is the policy. No, this is the start of a discussion about the consequences, about the positive and negative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145056	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145058	Well, I am fully aware that there are more schools in the Social Democratic Party as to how fast to go in EU policy, and I think that today's rapporteur is more advanced in terms of the United States of Europe than many other members of the Social Democratic Party are. But what I was actually trying to ask is this: when the Social Democrats have discussed whether to support the United States of Europe or whether to slow things down, would referendums be used more to reconcile the course of action with the people than just when the Constitution requires it? Because I know that the Constitution requires this in some contexts, but referendums could also be used more often to test whether what politicians believe is now in line with the wishes of the people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145146	I have to put an end to the misunderstanding that the questioner has: social democracy and I am not in favour of the United States of Europe. We are in favour of close cooperation between independent nations, in which we exercise competence in some areas where things can best be solved together. I think that is quite crucial, and that is quite a crucial difference in approach. And if you try to impose on me that I should represent such a view, I would say that it is simply not right. On the question of speed, there is no difference of opinion as to how quickly one has to achieve something. No, there is an attitude that we should think very well about as Danes in relation to our EU membership, in terms of what we should participate in, and how and how. We have to deal with the fact that some other countries want something more than we might want and where we hesitate and then clarify with ourselves what we want in relation to it. There is the difference of opinion in this House the more between us and parties that are in favour of the European Union and parties that are not in favour of the European Union, and we can hear that here too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145259	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145300	Perhaps I was just not aware of it for a moment, but could the rapporteur not, for the sake of me, sum up the proposal for adoption in two sentences?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145312	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145316	Now I don't really know if we're gonna make a pixi version like this. What is the starting point for this question is the question of the debate in this society about the future of the European Union. The two main points that have been emphasised here are that, in accordance with the procedures we have, we need to have a proper discussion of the substance and that there is a desire for the people to be actively involved in that discussion. I don't know if it's gonna make it any easier.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145352	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145354	Yeah, it's a complete relief. What I'm just thinking about is, if that's the point, why aren't all parties invited? Are there any parties that do not want a debate that does not believe that the people should be involved? I don't understand. Because that's how I heard the statement.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145417	But I would say that it is not now I who negotiated the proposal for adoption definitively, so I do not know who has made contact with, but if Enhedslisten and Mr. Søren Søndergaard thinks they want to be part of this proposal for adoption, so I think they should be welcomed. It must of course also depend on what the other parties are saying, but I cannot imagine that it would not be a very good idea. That would be a new policy in Europe and in Denmark and in the Folketing. So welcome, sir. Søren Søndergaard!
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145443	Thank you, sir. Claus Larsen-Jensen. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Jan E. Jørgensen from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145501	Thank you for that and thank you for the floor. I look forward to the debate; it is in full swing because it is an important debate. The Commission presented back in March a so-called White Paper on the future of Europe, and they did so because they wanted to make an input into what might be called a reflection process on our future EU cooperation. We have to admit that it has been a quite turbulent year, the worst expressed in the British's lamentable Brexit and the White Paper should then serve as a tool for a more open discussion on how we each see the European Union of the future in the various Member States, and I think that the ambition has actually been very successful, and the debate we have today bears witness to that too. I am, of course, pleased because the debate on the future of the European Union is necessary. We must, of course, decide on the direction in which we want cooperation to go and not just turn on the automatic pilot. The European policy of the current government can be clearly expressed in what is in the government's constitution, namely that we want to work for a strong, slim and effective European Union. The government's starting point is that our EU membership is fundamentally positive for Denmark. The European Union is making a very significant contribution to our prosperity, prosperity and security, and over the last few years the European Union has shown itself to be a guarantor of peace, freedom and free trade, and we believe that there is a very good reason to hold on to this. We must work together, we must legislate in all areas where it makes sense. At the same time, we need to focus on the principle of subsidiarity, and every time we meet a challenge, we need to remember to ask ourselves whether we are delivering a better result if we are dealing with the challenge at EU level or whether it is something that individual Member States should solve themselves. A concrete example has been the debate we have had on the social pillar, which has filled a great deal this autumn, and here the position of the government has been quite clear: the Left and the Government do not want the European Union to develop into a social union. It has been crucial for us that the pillar respects the principle of subsidiarity and the national labour market models. So we want a focused approach to the European Union, we want to use our EU cooperation to deliver concrete and tangible solutions to the cross-border challenges that concern the citizens of the European Union and that the Member States cannot take up separately. And what is that? Yes, these are our migration challenges; that is the question of external and internal security; and that is the question of growth and employment. The Danish People's Party then asks which of the five models best suit Denmark. You can't answer that exactly. That's not the idea either. Well, the idea is that there's something in most of them that can be used. However, I would like to say here that the model that states that we must have a European Union which is equal to the internal market, the free movement of goods, is not going to be supported, and that hardly surprises the Danish People's Party, even though I think that this is the path that the Danish People's Party wants if we do not even go out completely. If we look at the others and look at the model that could be described as the status quo, i.e. the first model, an EU with an unchanged course, then in reality it is not the status quo, because there is already a decision on a number of reforms of EU cooperation, so the status quo is not really even the status quo, and then there will be areas where we need to do less, but where we need to do it more effectively. There will also be areas where we may have to withdraw altogether, also as a result of Britain's withdrawal, including the funding that Britain has provided, and there we will then have to have a discussion about whether we should just cut everything down or whether we really should lift some things and then remove some other areas completely. So the five scenarios are therefore the basis for a discussion, and they are not proposals for actual adoption. We must work towards a strong, slim and effective European Union that delivers solutions to the challenges we have, and the debate on Denmark's role in the Europe of the future must of course be decided in Denmark, and I believe that we already have a very well-established practice for this. Then, of course, our Prime Minister and our Foreign Minister must continue the excellent work they are already doing to create effective alliances between the other Member States, which contribute to the success of the views we have in Denmark in the European Union, so that we can keep our cooperation on the right track.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201145959	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are two brief comments, the first from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150005	Thank you. Well, I can start by confirming Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen in that if we are to choose one of those scenarios, it will be about the internal market without the free movement of workers, which is also not included in it. But I'm actually gonna try to ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen to such rhetoric about the European Union, for I have noted that on 8 July 2017 Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's colleague, the Minister for Education and Research, out with a message in Information, where the Minister for Education and Research said that Denmark is defensively left and can be put outside influence in the new Europe, and that it is the fault of Social Democracy and the Danish People's Party. That's what the Minister for Education and Research said. Then he went on to say that he wanted Denmark to be one of the driving forces in EU cooperation, and then I just want to hear Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, whether this is an expression of the views of the Left, so not so much that it is the fault of the Social Democrats and the Danish People's Party, because it is always that, but more that with the driving force.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150114	I thought it was a good interview with the Minister of Education and Research, which I read with great pleasure. Perhaps I can also read out a little of what is in the Left's programme of principles. It says: "Denmark must be a fully-fledged member of the EU. Denmark should be part of the single currency, the euro, and Denmark should participate fully in the EU's common defence policy. Denmark should also participate fully in judicial cooperation and in cooperation on asylum and immigration policy, to the extent that this is compatible with Danish immigration policy. That is what we mean, and that is what the Minister for Education and Research says in the interview referred to. After all, we're watching this whole thing with the • and it's also a scenario • that those who can and will continue, and then the rest of us can stand back if we can't and will. It is also difficult as a small Denmark to say that large countries that have a desire to move forward with cooperation must not do so. Well, there has to be the answer somewhere: well, then you do it, and we're left. And that is a pity, because it means that decisions that concern Denmark and concern the whole of Europe are taken in some places where Denmark does not have a vote. And I think Denmark has something to contribute with • The Left believes that Denmark has something to contribute with. I also think that the Danish people believe that Denmark is quite a good country and that we have some good things to contribute to the development of Europe. So it is a pity to stand by and watch us slowly and without the will of the Left being pulled further away from what might be called the core of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150243	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150244	It must be understood in this way that Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen agrees with the Minister for Education and Research and also with the Danish Minister for Education and Research's criticism of the government. Then, on the other hand, I would like to know how, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen looks at what the Prime Minister said to Politiken on 29 July 2016: "Everyone knows that the scepticism is the feeling of opposition to the EU • as we have seen in Britain, it is also to be found elsewhere. We must take this seriously. I'm having a little trouble making these two things fit together. On the one hand, we must be a driving force in EU cooperation and more pleased with the European Union, and on the other hand, the Prime Minister says that we must take this scepticism seriously. - Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen explain how it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150334	Yes, I can do that, and that is what the Commission has done with the White Paper. That is precisely to say that there is a scepticism, as we saw in Britain. There was so much scepticism that they resigned. I would be interested to see what the outcome would be in a referendum in a few months' time, because the reality is slowly emerging in Britain. So that scepticism is there and we must take it seriously. We have not taken it seriously enough; we have not been good enough. So, there has been such a tendency that something good has happened, because of something we have done at home in Denmark, and when something bad has happened, we have tended to blame the European Union. And many times it has been Danish overimplementation of rules that have nothing to do with the EU, etc. In fact, it's kind of the same thing as me, like Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, I think he recognizes from his work in the municipal council. There, too, we sometimes have the same thing about blaming all the bad things on the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150428	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150429	Thank you. In Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's speech to begin with I listened to Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen and the Left are bemoaning Britain's decision to leave the EU. It is not a surprise that this is the case, but what reflection has been given by the Left and by the rapporteur himself that this decision has been taken in Britain? It could be that there was something wrong with EU cooperation, that it had moved too quickly, and at least it has to be concluded that it had moved far out of step with the people of Britain. After all, a withdrawal is the ultimate consequence of the fact that EU cooperation had been removed from what was supported in Britain. So what kind of reflection has this led to on the part of the Left and on the part of the rapporteur? Could it be that, in the broad sense, and not only in the eyes of the British electorate, the European Union has moved too far along the line in other EU countries too, and that we should perhaps adjust the course and slow it down more?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150530	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150531	I think the answer is more complicated than that. In some areas, there is scepticism that the EU has moved into areas where it does not think the EU should move in. In other areas, the opposite has been the case: there is a feeling that the European Union has not done enough. For example, it does not seem that the European Union has been able to protect the external borders, and that was so much has happened since then. For example, the agreement between the European Union and Turkey has so much helped to limit the flow of refugees into the European Union that we saw, which I would say the Danish People's Party also thinks is quite good. So it is really a combination of the fact that in some places you might think that the European Union has interfered with something that you cannot see why you cannot just solve in the Member States, and in other areas you think that the European Union has been too weak and too ineffective. But I can then reassure you that both areas are being dealt with. That is also what we mean when we talk about both a slim and an effective European Union. It is an EU that deals with what is cross-border and does so effectively. That means more EU in some areas. I mean, in the legal field, for example, it is a pity that we had a 'no' vote. Just today, at the European Committee of the Regions, we saw another consequence of the fact that we are not involved in judicial cooperation, namely that we cannot exchange information on third-country criminals as effectively with the other EU countries as we would otherwise have been able to do.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150659	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150701	I could then hear that the British decision has led to some reflection. I hope that this will be carried out in reality at some point. But now the rapporteur also read out of the Left's programme of principles, it was shown that it certainly did not sound as if there had been any thought, at least not that anything had been corrected since then. Since one could now have the idea that the Left was perhaps a little out of touch with the people I could imagine that the rapporteur then thinks that indicative referendums could be a good way of reconciling expectations between the people and the government and between the Left and the majority of the Danish Parliament on EU issues and not just making referendums when the Constitution requires it?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150745	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150746	Therefore, when it comes to referendums and the Danish People's Party, it is sometimes a little difficult to find out what you really mean. They went out and promised the voters a new referendum on Europol, and they even promised to recommend a 'yes' if we could not get a parallel agreement, and then we did not get a parallel agreement, and then the Danish People's Party ran out of that promise. So we should not ask the citizens there. But now, obviously, people have to be asked whether we should be a member of the European Union at all. I mean, there are quite a lot of polling agencies, and I know what they are doing. And what has been seen since Brexit is that the views of the Danes, the views of the people move in one direction, and that is the direction that more and more people believe that the EU is fundamentally positive, that is to say agree with the Left and disagree with the Danish People's Party, and that fewer and fewer people want a referendum. So there I think we should listen to the people and let them take Christmas and summer holidays and do their work rather than trouble them with a referendum that there is nothing at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150849	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen for today's work. We shall now proceed to the next rapporteur, Mr President. Søren Søndergaard from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201150906	Thank you for the question. A little further to the discussion we had during the previous paragraph, I think I will take a slightly more general starting point than just those five scenarios that Juncker and others got written down on a paper, and the overall scenario is, of course, that the world is undergoing a huge change right now. The world is changing enormously, and so is the European Union. The European Union is also undergoing a huge change. If you take an overall approach to this, you might say that before, of course, the idea was that the European Union was on its way to becoming a European Union. If the term 'European Union' had been put in place for the consumer Ombudsman, it would have been condemned, for the European Union has never been the European Union, because it has been only a small part of Europe. But there was a certain rationale in the name of the European Union because there was rather broad acceptance that more and more countries would join, especially after eastward enlargement, and then the European Union would become what it has been calling itself all along, namely a European Union. What we can see now is that the illusion is broken away, so it does not exist anymore. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, of course, Britain has chosen to resign. Secondly, that there are still a number of countries, including the United Kingdom, which are still missing. a dear Nordic country like Norway, and there is also Iceland, despite the fact that there is a large majority of at least Norwegian politicians in favour of being in the EU, where the people say by a huge majority: No, we do not want to enter the EU. So there are a number of European countries that do not want to join the European Union. Finally, there are countries which may perhaps want to enter, or where the political majority, the people have not always been asked, may well want to enter, but which are just not allowed by the European Union to enter. So we have that three-part: some who go out, some who don't want in, and some who want in, but can't get in. That is why we are in a situation where we have to see today that so far as we can see for decades to come, the European Union will only be part of Europe. The European Union will not be Europe. This then raises a problem for us, because what about those of us who really want European cooperation? What about those of us who want to bind all the countries of Europe into cooperation that wants to combat crime, for example. We must not be specially reserved for EU countries, that is, for them to decide there, but that it should be for all European countries, and what about us who want human rights to be for all European countries and then what do we do? In this context, it is not a discussion about for or against the European Union; I would like to take it, it is just not the discussion I am raising here. The discussion I am raising is a discussion on how to create European cooperation for all, or at least for the vast majority of European countries, where the European Union can then form part of it. In my view, this requires a Europe in several spaces. This requires flexible cooperation. It can easily be binding in the areas of commitment, but it requires flexible cooperation; some will be in the euro, others will not be in the euro, some will be in the internal market, others will not be in the internal market, some will decide whether their railways should be nationalised or not nationalised, while others think that this can be done in the EU and so on. There will be differences. There must be different spaces in order to make room for European cooperation, which includes everyone. It must be a cooperation in which everyone is involved, but not necessarily a part of it. In this respect, I think it is appropriate to consider where the European Union is going, because many spells can be made, but I do not think any of those who are soberly looking at what is happening in the European Union, who do not recognise that the European Union is engaged in a process of centralisation. It is also said by some in here that we are being sidelined. Yes, we are being sidelined because the European Union is being centralised because more and more decisions are being taken in the European Union, because it is increasingly wanted to have a uniform line in all EU countries. When you saw what happened during the crisis in relation to the euro, I understand that it is said that we must have a common finance minister who must sign each country's financial laws before they can enter into force. Schäuble's words. I can understand that. That's a real attitude. That's what I'd say if I liked that project. So I think the road is perfectly clear. It is against a more centralised European Union that decides more and more. And it is on that basis that I think we should take the discussion on where we will place ourselves in it • where is our location? That is why, Mr President, I challenged the Socialist rapporteur. Claus Larsen-Jensen, a little on the question of what was actually the content of the statement that was there, because if it was just a content that was that we should have a discussion, and we should then involve the people in that discussion, then we are in it, because of course we must have a discussion about where we place ourselves in the new direction of Europe that is developing. The view of the Enhedslisten is clear that we believe that there are some fundamental problems with the European Union, but we are also ready to test them. There are many who say that anything can be changed in the European Union. All right, let's test it. That is why we are saying that we are proposing and hoping to obtain a majority for the Danish Government to go down into the EU or to or out of the EU, but going to the EU and conducting a debate on the basis that we in Denmark will be allowed to ban social dumping. We do not accept social dumping. We will not in any way accept that anyone can come and say: there are some rights for capital in the internal market or something that makes you unable to stop social dumping. We must be able to ban social dumping in Denmark, and we must be able to take the lead in Denmark if we want to make better environmental standards, better standards in different areas. Will other countries be involved in this? Excellent, then we can change it. Will other countries not be involved in this? Yes, then we must discuss and decide what we do in Denmark. This is also the reason why we in the Group of the Party of European Socialists are putting forward the following: proposals for adoption • With Britain's withdrawal from the European Union and the EU's unwillingness to accept new Member States, the illusion that the European Union should finally be able to embrace the whole of Europe is the illusion. That is why the government is called upon to work for European cooperation in several areas where there is room for all the countries of Europe, including the European Union. At the same time, the Folketing calls on the government to start negotiations with the EU on a new Danish relationship with the EU based on the right to stop social dumping and the possibility to take the lead in areas such as: food safety, chemicals legislation, environment, working environment, animal welfare. On the basis of the outcome of such a debate, a referendum should be held in which the Danish people will have the opportunity to decide on Denmark's future relationship with the EU.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201151735	Thank you. It gave rise to a few brief comments from Mr. Søren Søndergaard's colleagues, Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen first. No, we'll skip him. We'll take sir. Claus Larsen-Jensen instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201151746	I would ask the rapporteur just to tell us what it is for countries that cannot get in. So, does this mean that Enhedslisten does not think that there should be any requirement for people to enter so that they can meet the standards that we really want them to do in order for them to be able to join together? Then I'm gonna ask you if you don't mind, sir. Søren Søndergaard has some reservations about a multispeed Europe. We already have the internal market. Countries in the EEA, i.e. Norway and others, participate in the cooperation. We also have Schengen cooperation. It is also such a type of cooperation. But does the Enhedslisten not have a concern that this means that countries cannot be committed in the same way, so that the internal market can be linked with fair competition to a requirement that something should also be done in relation to social dumping?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201151851	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201151852	Well, I fully understand that the European Union is making demands on the countries that are going to join the European Union and is demanding that countries wishing to enter meet them. It has to be said that a number of countries cannot. If we bind the whole of European cooperation to people entering the European Union and the European Union does not believe that those countries meet the requirements, then they are in a limbo. We ourselves have experienced this on a journey with the committee when we were in Albania and when we were in Kosovo. There we saw it very clearly. Politicians were almost crying and saying that their entire universe was directed towards EU accession, and the EU said that no, it cannot. I do not really have a problem with the EU making those demands. I simply note that there are a number of countries that cannot come up with the current basis, and they will not be able to do so for many years to come, for example. Turkey. When will they join the European Union? I think it was the PM who said something about when the sun burns out or something. So it takes a very long time for Turkey to join, but does this mean that we should not have European cooperation with Turkey? Does this mean that we should not try to bind Turkey into European cooperation? It would be nonsense not to do that. Of course we do. In relation to the second question: there is a difference between a multi-speed and multi-space European Union. We propose European cooperation in several areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152025	Does the rapporteur not see that this is extremely contradictory? Turkey, for example, is now being mentioned. After all, Turkey is a powder keg to discuss, but after all they have been preparing for a long time and then do not meet the criteria. I guess there are many of us who generally think it is very good that there is that requirement. But Albania? I have just been to Albania and can see that they themselves expect that it will take 8-10 years to prepare their legislation and their basis for meeting the requirements for EU membership at all. Isn't it very good that there are these kinds of rules? I can't quite understand the logic of that. It will be such a combination of rooms with the Wild West in some places and something else in other rooms. It's not gonna be something that works crosswise.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152111	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152113	I have not challenged the fact that the European Union has rules that keep Albania out. But does this mean that Albania must be kept out of the Council of Europe? Does this mean that Albania must be excluded from other cooperation in the European Union or in Europe? Why would they do that? Now we have the whole case of Europol, where it is absolutely crucial whether you are a full member of the European Union, so that you can be part of Europol's governing bodies and one and the other and the third. But should not those countries that are not part of the European Union also fight crime? Why don't they have to be in it? Then you can say specifically that they do not meet any requirements in terms of being able to cooperate within Europol, and all right, then you can keep them out of this. In general, however, we must be open to all European countries being given the opportunity to participate. Why should Norway not be allowed to be a full member of a crime-fighting organisation in Europe in line with Romania? What is the cause? That is why we say that we want cooperation in several spaces. The formulation of multi-speed cooperation means that you all go in the same direction, just at different speeds. That is not what we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152228	Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152230	Yes, sir. Søren Søndergaard, in any case, is quite right, because that is the precise description of what a multispeed European Union is all about: we must all end up in the same place, but it is a question of when we end up there. I'd like to say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that there are quite a lot of parts of the proposal for adoption that Enhedslisten has put forward here, which we can easily see ourselves in from the Danish People's Party. We probably have the basic idea that as long as Denmark is part of the European Union, we are very pleased that some of these countries, like Mr. Søren Søndergaard mentions Turkey, Albania, Ukraine, I do not know whether Mr. Søren Søndergaard was mentioned Ukraine • is not part of the EU. However, on the day that Denmark may have left the EU, the European Union must, of course, find out. But what I really wanted to ask, sir. Søren Søndergaard was about this referendum, which we also very much want from the Danish People's Party. - Sir... Søren Søndergaard tells us why Mr. Søren Søndergaard will have completed the negotiations first, i.e. before a possible referendum?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152336	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152337	It is, of course, first of all in order to have the referendum decided at all. Well, we can hear what is being said from, for example. Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's side. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen says: there is no reason to waste people's time with that referendum, because there is a large majority for the European Union anyway. Okay, now we're some people who don't base our political action on opinion polls, but that's a very widespread view. That is why we say: let us create a new basis for such a referendum. And a new basis is, of course, to look at some of the things that we think very many Danes have an idea of would be good: that there is no social dumping and that we can take the lead if we, for example, take the lead. will ban poison in tattoo ink so you don't get sick from being tattooed. But we must not do that for the European Union. It is then the case that if we can be allowed to do so and in a number of areas can be allowed to do something, we can negotiate with the European Union and say: can we be allowed to do this? Then there is a new basis to consider. The basis may then be for the EU to say that it is okay, and it may be that there are other countries that go along with it and that EU rules are being changed; it may also be that the EU says: you can go fuck yourself and jump for the single market is above all else. Then we have a new clarification. Against this background, it is quite reasonable for the people to be given the opportunity to take a position.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152459	The questioner? No. Well, then, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen wants to say something.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152508	Yes, sir, I couldn't help myself. Søren Søndergaard makes it sound like there is the European Union, and then there are the rest of the countries in Europe who stand and look in like the little girl with the brimstones that look into the Christmas tree and are not allowed to be in anything. And that's not true. Well, it's not. There are more countries in the Council of Europe than there are countries in the European Union, and you can also be in Europol, although not as a full member, even if you are not a member of the European Union. You don't even have to be part of Europe for that matter: the United States has officers sitting at Europol's headquarters in The Hague. So, sir. Søren Søndergaard makes it sound as if the European Union is such an exclusive club that the rest of Europe's countries cannot be allowed to participate in anything, and that is simply contrary to the facts.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152556	- Sir... Jan E. Jørgensen does not explain to me why a country such as Norway cannot be a full member of a crime-fighting organisation called European police cooperation, in line with a country such as Norway. Romania or Bulgaria? Can't Jan E. Jørgensen explain that to me?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152616	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152617	Yes, it is because Norway is not a member of the European Union, and that is because the people of Norway do not want to be a member of the European Union, and Europol is part of the European Union. Well, it's not that weird. You may also agree with some of what Enhedslisten thinks, but do not really want to be a member of Enhedslisten. That's how I feel, for example. I would not like that very much; I would not like that. So that's not so weird. That would, of course, be to say to the people of Norway: you just have to be here, because now you think in the Storting that there are some things that make you want to join Norway in part of the European Union. You can't do that, so that's a strange question to ask. But now I asked Mr. Søren Søndergaard, about Mr. Søndergaard. Søren Søndergaard will acknowledge that what he said in his opening speech was not correct.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152703	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152704	No, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen didn't see. But I think that if I had been a lawyer, I'd say, "In the rest of my case." I think that means something like this: it completely confirms what I said. Norway cannot participate in police cooperation in Europe and fight crime in Europe in line with Romania, because the Norwegian people are so naughty that they do not want to join the European Union. Isn't that the whole point of this? Is that not why we need to have European cooperation in several spaces, where those who want to fight crime and live up to the standards that have to be 'because, of course, there must be something about data security and things like that' can be allowed to be together there, instead of making the European Union the sun that everything has to go through in a situation, and that is the point of my speech, where it is quite clear that the European Union will never cover the whole of Europe or just the majority of Europe? That is, in fact, our starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152807	Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152808	This is probably the most liberal project I have ever heard of from the Enhedslisten. It's such a free choice project. So I just have to ask: how do you get climate skeptical countries to enter the climate room? How to get cowboy capitalist countries to go into proper conditions for worker space etc. etc.? I have a tiny bit of difficulty in understanding a party that would like to demand a lot of taxes from the Danes, because one does not trust that people themselves will contribute in different areas, but when it comes to countries, one has very much confidence that, on the basis of liberalistic free choice principles, we will be able to solve all these major problems voluntarily.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152852	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201152853	Well, I think we have a fundamental disagreement here, and the disagreement is whether in the long run one can imagine situations in which people and people's governments and representatives are being voted down by other countries and yet the laws and rules that are being adopted are being applied. We don't believe that. We believe that the prerequisite for this to happen is for people to be convinced. Is that so unrealistic? Well, how did we get rid of the death penalty in Europe? I hope that Mrs Zenia Stampe will remember that we had the death penalty not too many years ago in Europe. There was the death penalty in Russia and there was the death penalty in Poland and there was the death penalty in England and there was the death penalty everywhere, but the Council of Europe made a protocol against the death penalty, and this led to movements in Britain, movements in Russia, movements in Poland, which fought to abolish the death penalty, and it helped to abolish the death penalty in the case of the last two countries; England was already a member of the Council of Europe. I believe that we must make sustainable solutions here, and we do so by building on democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153001	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153003	It is, of course, a great deal of trust that countries are shown, but a fantastic little confidence that you have in the individual people. That's where I think there's some inconsistency. I'm just gonna have to ask you, do you think? Soren Søndergaard really that we can solve a problem such as the climate problem? Changing your energy sector is so expensive. Thinks sir. Søren Søndergaard really, that this can be done purely by volunteering, by saying: We want to be a pattern of virtue. We'll take the lead. And then you think you can inspire everyone else? Thinks sir. Søren Søndergaard really on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153036	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153036-2	The question is, of course, whether what is happening is not that the climate-sceptic countries are currently blocking the countries that want to take the lead in doing so. If it is the case that a country can make a green transition which can be economically justified, one can imagine that there are people in other countries who will say over a long period of time: 'Well, we think it is a really bad idea for pollution'. We think this is a really bad idea. No, of course there will be pressure, and we ourselves see that in the United States. It may well be that a president has been elected, but there are a lot of states that say no, and that is why it is crucial to mobilise the people. The idea that you can have a good climate policy, which is opposed to the people, does not stand up. There is only one way forward, and that is to convince a majority and that it has confidence in people.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153135	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief comments. Then it should be the Liberal Alliance rapporteur that he comes here. Welcome to sir. Leif Mikkelsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153150	Thank you. It is because our rapporteur in this area, Mrs Christina Egelund, is at debate and could not be here, and then I have been fortunate enough to win that drawing here on a Friday afternoon. It is wonderful, because it is interesting, as always, to have European political discussions here in Parliament, and today we are discussing, on the basis of the Commission's White Paper, with scenarios for the future and a series of ideas which will form the basis for a discussion on the future of EU cooperation. After Brexit, it has been both necessary and meaningful for the European Union to sit down and discuss thoroughly what the European Union of the future will look like. Britain's withdrawal cannot and should not just be seen passively by the European Union, but should be used as an opportunity to look inwards. The Commission's White Paper sets out an important discussion on the future of the European Union, and this is a discussion that we in the Liberal Alliance look forward to following and contributing to. In the Liberal Alliance, our clear starting point is that the European Union of the future must be a European Union focused on core values, peace, freedom and free trade. EU initiatives that provide economic impetus that promote the open and free market should always be high on the EU agenda. We must constantly ensure that we work for an EU that is more focused and effective and that delivers concrete results for the benefit of citizens and businesses in the Member States, and therefore it is also crucial that the European Union is able to translate the slightly more abstract ideas and ambitions into concrete political action. Finally, I would like to say that we in the Liberal Alliance welcome the EU debate that is already taking place at home, both in public and here in Things. A good example is the debate today. We believe that a broad debate on the European Union of the future is extremely important, and so the Commission's White Paper, which came in the spring, also contributes to this. We look forward to the continued debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153405	Thank you, sir. Leif Mikkelsen. There's a brief comment, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153410	I would like to begin by thanking Mr. Leif Mikkelsen to take part in the debate. There is, after all, another party that is always conspicuous by their absence in this debate. I expect that to happen this time too, and then I will say a little about it when the time comes. So thank you to the Liberal Alliance for actually prioritising being here in the Assembly Hall and participating in the work of the people's regime. What I'm gonna ask, sir. Leif Mikkelsen says that now we heard Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen says that Denmark must be a driving force in EU cooperation. On April 4, 2014, Mr. Anders Samuelsen to Berlingske: "In general, Denmark must drop even more of any ambition to become part of the EU's inner circle if it is to the Liberal Alliance. ▪ What is the policy of the Liberal Alliance? So, the policy of the Liberal Alliance is the same as that of the Left, that is, that Denmark should be a driving force in EU cooperation against more union, or that is what Mr. On April 4, 2014, Anders Samuelsen said that we should abandon those who are ambitions to be part of the European Union's inner circle? If so, is the logical consequence of not convening negotiations for a new European political agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153527	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153529	It could, of course, develop into a very exciting discussion, and no matter when Mr. Anders Samuelsen has said that it is, in fact, very important for the views of the Liberal Alliance in this area, I would just like to say. That is why, of course, we agreed with Mr. Anders Samuelsen in 2014, and so are we today in the Liberal Alliance. We are quite critical of large parts of European cooperation. It is too bureaucratic and too heavy and introverted, and we do not want to be in that core. We want to put a serious question mark over this. That is why I am here today saying that it is for the sake of the Member States and businesses that the work of the European Union must be done, and it must be less bureaucratic, more open, more free and more dynamic, and we hope that this White Paper will be able to put forward a debate on this and that it can develop into it. These are the core values on which the European Union was founded, on which we should like to hold on, and not something that moves towards a European Union. We are not in favour of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153631	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153633	Then I would very much hope that the Liberal Alliance will be given sufficient gravity to force that view to the Left, because I understand that Mr. Rasmus Jarlov, when he speaks in the press... we don't see him in the Assembly Hall... in fact share some of the views that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen is here expressing himself. In the same article, Mr. By the way, Anders Samuelsen also states that Mr. Anders Samuelsen was prepared to break EU rules if they were in the way. It was so specific about the children's check. I do not demand that, but I have to say that I am a little disappointed that when you sit two parties that are sceptical of the European Union, you do not get on with that line. I mean, why hasn't the rhetoric changed compared to what we heard a year and a half ago from the government?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153723	After all, a government currently consists of three parties and three parties are working on what three parties are agreeing on, which means that it is a common denominator. It is, in effect, the price of democracy. That is a compromise, and we cannot go further than three parties can agree on, and we must then have that discussion within the government, with respect for such intergovernmental cooperation. That is why we do not state clearly that we want to do exactly that and that, without having agreed with our government partner, whether it is possible or not. That's how the Liberal Alliance works, and that's why it's gonna take time. Now there are also differences in the size of the three parties in the government, so perhaps the largest weighs a little more than the other two. That is why it takes a little longer, but I actually feel a rather growing understanding of the desire for a more dynamic drive on the European Union, and that we should stick to the original virtues that I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153814	It is fortunate that one of the major parties now has the floor. Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153819	Thank you. Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is trying skillfully to put some lice in the pelt, and it's nice that Mr. Leif Mikkelsen doesn't buy it. Because if you are going to clean up the bureaucracy in the European Union, you need to be there. Those who decide in the European Union are at the heart and what lies in, among other things. The White Paper is, of course, how to achieve a more flexible, more effective EU and that is done by cleaning up the bureaucracy that is, after all, in some places, just as it is here in Denmark. For example, it takes 14-16 months to deal with something as simple as an application for Danish citizenship; I do not think we can blame the EU for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153900	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153902	Now, it was not a question, it was a comment from one of the governing parties, and I think it stands for itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153911	The questioner? No. Then we're done with Mr. Kim. Leif Mikkelsen. Thank you so much. And the next rapporteur is Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist from the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201153921	In a question debate on these five scenarios, it's interesting to see why these five scenarios are even presented in this White Paper. That is, of course, because we in the European Union are in a political crisis. I say we because we are part of the European Union and we are because we have a number of challenges to which we have not yet managed to find answers together. We are, of course, doing so because Britain has chosen to resign from our community and it is being negotiated right now. And then it's wise to stop and see how we move on. The Commission has chosen to do this with these five scenarios, which are, of course, a very good tool to discuss, so that we can have a debate on something more concrete, instead of being extremely abstract and thrown up in the air, what is going to happen in the future. Here, like some things to relate to. What has actually been most interesting about the five scenarios is all the sixth scenarios that have come around. In particular, I have been very pleased with the sixth scenario that has been presented by a large number of civil society organisations from across the EU and which has been initiated by SDG Watch Europe and Friends of the Earth Europe. They point out that a scenario could also be to develop us into a sustainable engine that really supports green values. It's a scenario that I can stand and applaud. I think it is a really beautiful scenario that is very good in line with the policy that we would like to see pursued in the European Union. Juncker himself was also faced with a sixth scenario in its state of the Union speech. We discussed a little in the Committee on European Affairs how we should actually take up these state of the union speeches, but then the Danish People's Party had already called this question debate, which is why it is natural here to talk about how we should deal with the five scenarios and all the sixth scenarios that are there. In fact, I believe that this is the best thing for the European Union, and I believe that it is the best thing globally that we stay very united, so that we do not go into different spaces and have different speeds, but try to work together in this binding community that we have created. When I believe it, it is because there is something in the commitment where we are not always thinking about what is just good for Denmark, but actually about what is good for the European Union, that is, where we are not always thinking what's in it for me, but actually thinking about the 510 million citizens who are in the European Union right now and how we can move somewhere together. This is the Community idea that we believe to be important in the European Union. There are so many things we would like to change fortunately, because that is also why you go into politics, namely to change something. We would very much like to see greater democratisation of the European Union and its institutions. We would like to see the right of initiative transferred to Parliament and much more transparency in the various areas within the institutions we have created. In particular, it is the Council which has some major steps to take so that we can actually look right in and see what is going on. There are a lot of exercises that have been done with trialogue negotiations etc., where we do not really see what is just going on. There, we believe that increased transparency will be very good and, in fact, we believe that the work on democratisation and increased transparency is quite crucial for the future, in other words for our binding cooperation in the European Union. For what we see, unfortunately, when it becomes opaque and there is not much democracy, is a disintegration which we think is very, very unfortunate. But it takes courage; it takes courage to enter into the political struggle as it is, and that is actually what I think has been interesting with the many, many debates and talks that have emerged from these five scenarios. What I really want to say about this is that we must be brave, that we must dare to enter into a political debate on this and that it is not always about the simple question of a 'yes' or 'no' to the European Union. No, it is about what Europe we want and how we want to go to a place where we become more green, more democratic, more social. There I just believe in the commitment of the community, and also a little inspired by Enhedslisten's talk about these different spaces, my ambitions are greater than just sitting here thinking that we can do everything within our small square in Denmark, but that we can actually together, precisely because it is binding, help push for greater development. Our ambition for the European Union is that we take it to the political side, that is to say, that we stop asking 'yes' or 'no' all the time, but actually take it to the political side and ask: how can we bring about change for 510 million citizens of the European Union? And in the long term, when we take, for example, the climate agenda, as Mrs Zenia Stampe mentioned, it is again the European Union that can act as a catalyst for global change. So that is the future we see for the European Union. In terms of how we are going to take on what is also being asked about in this question, it is a lot about us taking this debate, that we are discussing it much more. I know that we have arranged a series of talks throughout Denmark. I'm going to couples' therapy with mr. Søren Søndergaard in Roskilde at some point in December, precisely about the European Union, and I look forward to that very much. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154459	It gave rise to a number of brief comments, and the first one comes from Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154506	Thank you. I really thought it was interesting to listen to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. So, I understand that what the alternative wants is that we have to be more democratic, more social and more green, and all that. I get that. But what I am concerned about right now and here is within what framework we should be, so I really want to hear Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist: Should there then be in the universe of the Alternative, for example. be more majority voting in the EU? When Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist says that Parliament must have more influence, does that mean that Parliament must take more decisions? In other words, should the decisions be placed before the European Parliament so that they are taken in the European Parliament outside the Council, for example? 'Cause it's all worth it. I have respect for all the things that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist would like to, but I just need to understand if it is within such a federal umbrella that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist sees these things done.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154615	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154616	No, it's not a federal umbrella. What this is all about is constantly finding out what decisions have to be taken. There are some that we best meet at supranational level. In other words, if it is a challenge with passports, we must of course do so together. Other decisions must, of course, be national. But all this sovereignty, and what it is that we are best to decide for ourselves, is a little out-of-date talk that I do not recognize from the reality in which we live. Because we have some challenges that are so cross-border that it is no use, we are just sitting here talking about them in Denmark. And there we welcome the way in which decisions are taken in the European Union today, where there are a number of majority decisions. We can't see any harm in that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154657	I think it's kind of like trying to knock the stick on a wall with a nail, it keeps falling to the ground. I would just like to know what kind of organisational framework this is for EU cooperation, as the alternative sees it. It is not a federation, but it is, for example, a federation. More majority decisions? Do you need more majority voting in the European Union? Should more power be transferred to the EU system? Because I understand that the political aim itself is about the same as that of the Enhedslisten, but there seem to be two very different ways of achieving that result.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154740	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154740-2	No, it is not necessarily more majority decisions, but when I talk about democratisation, and when I talk about the role of Parliament, it is actually because Parliament is democratically elected. We think that we can also leave them some right of initiative for them to come up with proposals which will then actually be considered by the various institutions that will have to do so. At the same time, we are also very much in favour of involving the parliaments of the nation states to an even greater extent. I think it is a good thing that this task force is now being set up, among other things. COSAC is participating and where we need to look at when we can work on the principle of subsidiarity, in other words the whole principle of subsidiarity, how we can work on it more actively. What I just think is good in the work that is going on now, which has come out of these five scenarios, is that you actively go in and say: Where do we really have some challenges that we should try to solve?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154836	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154838	I'm gonna go on a little bit in the lead that my party buddy used to run in before. The rapporteur's speech, which Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist gave just before, was a really typical alternative rapporteur speech, so I was not surprised. It was something with a lot of plus words, it was something with involvement, conversation, dialogue, and it was something with democracy and a whole lot of other nice things. It all sounds very nice and cozy, but if we now take very concretely the five scenarios that Jean-Claude Juncker has listed, then it may well be that there is not one of the five that the alternative exactly thinks is the most important. But what is the most appeal to the alternative, to be a little specific? Which of the five prefers the alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154921	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154923	I am very pleased that I am giving a typical alternative rapporteur speech, since I represent the alternative, so that in itself I take this as a very great compliment. As I said very clearly, I think that the most interesting thing has been all the sixth scenarios that have come, even Juncker has come up with a sixth scenario. So no, I don't need to point to one of the five scenarios. I think what has come from Friends of the Earth Europe is a very good scenario, which has been signed by a whole range of civil society organisations from all over Europe and which is precisely about how to create a sustainable and transparent Europe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201154954	Well, it also sounds good with sustainable Europe and transparent Europe, which I actually think are values that we basically share, but it may be more different how we think it should be implemented. But I would like to hear, also to be more in the specific world: is it more central decisions in Brussels that the alternative should be made? Or should influence and power be placed in the Member States? Is it federalism, or is it more a democracy based on the Member States' own local democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155027	There are, like two levels in the European Union, and I think that was very clear to the honourable Member's party colleague. After all, the European Union is made up of nation states, the European Union is us, and it is the nation states that have come together, but at the same time there is a layer that is about the citizens of the Union, the 510 million citizens, and there are some decisions that are best made because they are cross-border, with majority decisions, that is to say, just as we are doing today, and others are not doing so, and that is exactly what we are standing and discussing; that is what we are discussing right now, with a task force, to find out what levels we need to work on, and that is actually the work that I think it would be so nice to get more actively involved in. Because I don't hear it from DF that you just have to resign tomorrow, because if that's what you want to do, then it's also an interesting attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155117	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155118	I can't wait to get into couples' therapy with Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist. Is it on the fucking birthday, or...? It's about there. But I noticed that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist repeated the number 510 million several times and that Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said that there must be development and that must be good for democracy. Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist must not understand the polemic, but what about all those who are outside the 510 million who are part of Europe? What should their location be? Some do not want to enter the European Union, others cannot enter the European Union with the current rules. It is the European Union's decision what it is like, but they just can't get into the European Union with those rules. How are we good to them? Or is there a wall around the 510 million, what I'm sure of, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist doesn't want? It is a little related to the second question, the one with the several spaces. We have another room. It's called the Council of Europe. A lot of the tasks that lie within the Council of Europe are, moreover, slowly being pulled out of the Council of Europe and into the European Union, that is to say this about education and so on, even though the Council of Europe has a much, much wider scope. I'm not guessing that sir. Rasmus Nordqvist has something against the space called the Council of Europe. But what is the problem of having such spaces where all the countries of Europe can participate, and are willing to do so, on a binding basis, because the basis of the Council of Europe is binding? The Danish Government is very opposed to that, but it is, and we support that too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155300	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155301	I think that the two roles played by the European Union and the Council of Europe are very, very different. I fully agree that there are some outsiders who would like to come in. That is where I think we should help those countries to come in and be able to live up to those things, because it is clear that when we have constructed the structures we have in the European Union with an internal market where we do not check things in the same way, then we have to live up to standards. There are some standards in a number of different areas that need to be met in order to enter. After all, we must help those countries, such as some of them in the Balkans, to get in because they want to come in. Some people don't want to go in, too. Fine, of course we must have good cooperation with those we have with, for example, Norway, Iceland and so on. But I do not see the European Union as opposed to the Council of Europe; I see them as two very different sizes where different things are discussed. For me, the Council of Europe is not about an internal market in which we have opened the borders, where we can move around, fall in love, work, etc. across borders, as we can and which, of course, also requires common rules. These are some other things at stake in the Council of Europe. It is something more fundamental, it is the larger lines we agree on there, which are about what kind of rights you have as a human being, the whole human rights aspect. So it's two very, very different sizes and not necessarily just two different rooms you go into. These are two different sizes, and they are different tasks that lie within them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155419	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155421	Maybe we should take it in the couple therapy about the difference between size and space and something like that. After all, the Council of Europe is an example of a European space that is not the European Union. I therefore fully agree that those countries that want to join the European Union, where the problem is that there are not enough rights for their citizens or there is not enough data security or whatever it may be, they must be helped so that they can do so if the people so wish. I do not want to keep anyone outside the European Union who wants to enter the European Union, but the point is that if we look at a country like Ukraine, everyone knows that they will not enter the European Union for the next 20 years. Why is it not important to bind a country such as Ukraine into European cooperation, as with Turkey, as with Russia, not only in the area of human rights, but also in the area of the environment, or when it comes to what do I know? Why not open up that opportunity?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155520	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155521	Three things: I'll try to do it in 30 seconds, I have 10 seconds for each. Firstly, I am very much in agreement with the decision to freeze the accession negotiations with Turkey which are currently taking place, because I do not believe that they have anything to do with the way they behave with their citizens or with their democracy in the European Union. Secondly, the European Union already has close partnership agreements with a number of countries outside where we are working together, helping them and so on. I think that is precisely one of the obligations we have. And the last thing I want to say is in relation to the Council of Europe. So I cannot see it with my best will, and I really do love the Council of Europe, as binding cooperation as what we see in the European Union, where we are accountable to each other in a whole range of areas, and where we also go into more detail with the same rules and so on. So there it is at a completely different level in the Council of Europe. So I think comparing the two is a very, very biased and asymmetrical comparison.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155611	Thank you. That was impressive! Thank you very much, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist for today's work, and welcome to Mrs Zenia Stampe from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201155625	Thank you. So nobody is sitting here on a Friday afternoon following this debate, but it may be that some people are doing it at home, or some will later go in and see what we said in this very important and crucial debate. For it is for Europe is at a crossroads, the European Union is at a crossroads, and there are probably some who would say that it is a question of more or less the European Union. But it's probably a little simplistic, even if you look at what's the reason we're at this crossroads. It is, of course, not least the vote in Britain and also our own vote and the general scepticism that has been growing in several parts of Europe. It is a scepticism which stems from the fact that large parts of the population of several European countries feel increasingly alienated from the European Union. There is a perception that the European Union is interfering in too much, but also that the European Union cannot solve the major problems. That is why it cannot really be a question of more or less the European Union. For the two things are in some way also at odds with each other, i.e. getting involved too much, but being too bad to solve the big problems. If we look at these scenarios that Juncker has played out with, then there are, I think, only two scenarios that are realistic to continue with, and I shall start with the others. The status quo I think everyone can agree is not a viable path. I guess we wouldn't want to talk about standing at a crossroads. Then there is a reduced EU. After all, we cannot solve the major problems that citizens across the European Union are frustrated that Europe cannot solve together. An enlarged European Union, I think, will also be difficult for most people to swallow when you already have the feeling that the European Union may have spread over a little too much. That is why it is especially the two middle scenarios that are in play. A multi-speed Europe is probably more a construction of need than of desire, and it is, in fact, a construction that we already have, not least because of our own reservations. What you are thinking of here is perhaps more that you turn it around. Instead of being able to opt out or go out, there are some people who are allowed to run ahead, and that can be very positive, because then running may become attractive. Then perhaps it will be what you want to do instead of the situation that is now where it is attractive to choose from. I still believe that this is such an emergency scenario, but that it can become the realistic scenario if you cannot agree on anything else and the path that the European Union is developing right now. Then there is this European Union that everyone is talking about, which is what we really need to discuss. For that is what everyone is talking about, but it is also the most open issue, namely a smaller, but better, European Union, that is, what our Minister for Foreign Affairs has previously called a European Union, which is big on the big things and small on the smaller things, or, as the rapporteur of the Left has said, strong, slim and effective. The problem is: what are the big things, and what are the little things? Because I remember that it had not been many days after our own vote, when our own parties here in Parliament I think it was almost everyone, perhaps just except those who just say less and less EU • agreed that it is a stronger but slimmer EU. But when you ask them what it is, there is really a big difference at home, but there is also within the European Union, in relation to where you stand, i.e. whether you are in the north, south, east or west, on the red wing or blue wing. At home, Mette Frederiksen, who was one of the first to bid, has said that it is simply social dumping that is the focus point. We have heard that from the Social Democrats today, and I agree that this is a really important area, no doubt about it. Then we hear the Liberals, the Left and the LA who say that it is competitiveness and that it is free trade that we must concentrate on. If you ask the Conservatives, it is law and order, you ask the Green parties, it is climate and environment. If you ask a party like ours, that's probably all because we're a bit of it, and that's why we're a middle party. What I just think is the point of this is that it is part of the reality of the European Union, but also the problem. The European Union is an idealistic project, but it is also a realistic project. It's the art of compromise. It is not just to stand and negotiate on a particular policy area and then find a good solution in the middle, but it is also to recognise that if we want to get something through in an area that we think is important, then we may also have to accept that there are some other areas that come in, although we do not think they are important. It may be that we in Denmark think something is important and that there is something else that we do not think is important, but it may be that it is quite the opposite if you are standing down in Italy. It may be that what we think is important is completely irrelevant, but that what we do not think is important is important. That is also sometimes what is political, and we know that from here. What is merely the difference between national policy and Europe is that when we make a compromise at home, we know that it is part of the political game. But in Europe, the compromise becomes a disease, it becomes a diagnosis, and then the patient is ill because the European Union is now dealing with something that we think is so insignificant. But perhaps the reason why the European Union is dealing with what is so insignificant is that it is important for some others and that we have to deal with it if we want them to deal with what we think is important. If we do not start talking about the European Union from the realistic perspective, namely that it is not just a bouquet of flowers selected by Danes, but that there are also flowers selected by other countries, which they think are important, if we do not have the realistic talk about it and say that it is part of that project, and it is a democratic project, but every time we only have to stare at the times or at least the foreign flowers and say: Oh, what a bouquet that is going out there, because we have to have a leaner and stronger European Union, then I think we will always have this discussion, and I think we will always have this scepticism. Because then we will only focus on the bad, instead of saying, as we do at home, that a compromise is a compromise, but it is better to be in it than to be outside, because there were some flowers that we were allowed to place in that bouquet. That is why I would just like to say that there is no doubt that the Radical Left is a party that would like to have more of the European Union in many areas, because we are a party that believes that problems are best solved together. We are also a party that believes that problems are best solved in a negotiation rather than in a war. Whether it's wars with weapons, gunpowder and bullets or economic wars, cold wars, we believe in negotiations. Moreover, we are also a party that believes that all sorts of different areas of regulation must be regulated, whether in terms of employees' rights or climate, and that is why we want more EU. But the most important thing for us is that the house exists, whether we get it all in or not. I don't know what that clock means, but it probably means I'm about to finish. Third Vice-President Yes, that is quite right). That's good. I know it went out of fashion to talk about Europe or the European Union as a project of peace. Now it has come back because we have Putin and we have Trump, but I think it is very important to remember why we have an EU. We have a European Union because we believe that Europe can become stronger if we cooperate. We have a European Union because we believe that there are problems that will never be solved if we do not resolve them in cooperation, and if they are solved without cooperation, it will be through conflict. And we have a European Union because there are some small countries that have said that the only way they can influence is if we make binding international cooperation. Because if there are no obligations, it's just the big ones who decide. I think we should bear that in mind when we have these big discussions about the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160523	I can confirm that when the clock stands at 00.00, it is because you have spent your official speaking time. We shall now proceed to the debate, and there is a question from Mr Beazley. Kenneth Kristensen Berth to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160537	Yes, I do not really know what to say to the speech made by Mrs Zenia Stampe, because I had actually expected such a pro-European fire speech, but it never really got off the ground. In any case, it didn't get started until the add-on period. When the time had elapsed, the great voices of the Radical Left came out that you want more of the European Union and so on, and we are not surprised at that. Nevertheless, I actually think that the first five minutes were very balanced, and I think I have never said that before. But I just need to be absolutely sure. Mrs Zenia Stampe also had a bit of opposition to herself, which is why I would just like to clarify it. Mrs Zenia Stampe said in conclusion that the Radical Left wants more EU-- I have heard that before the beginning, but Mrs Zenia Stampe said at the beginning, before the additional period started, that one was actually in favour of the scenario that had less, but better, European Union. So I just need to understand how these two things are connected, because at first glance they seem to be in conflict with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160645	That's because it sounds quite right when you say: big on the big things, and small on the little things. But when you start asking the different parties just in our own Parliament what the big things are then, we can see that this big cake starts by being a big corner if you ask one party. Then you ask the next party, and then it expands, and in the end you have the whole cake you have today. In fact, I think it has been really difficult because when you ask the parties who are travelling around with this slogan, 'A slimmer, but stronger EU', what it is then that the EU should not deal with, it may well be that they can give some old examples. It can be something with some curved cucumbers and liquorice spies, and what it really was. Whether there was anything in it or whether it was just such media stories, I haven't really realized myself. But we do not need it to be concrete and not just a slogan. Because when it gets concrete, we can see that the entire game board is quickly filled out. Sure, for our sake, and maybe it's because we're a social liberal party. We like politics in these many different areas, i.e. green policy, workers' rights, free market, etc. etc. After all, we like it all because we are a social liberal party and because we believe in international cooperation, common solutions, solidarity. Therefore: No, we may not be for a slimmer EU, but the chorus cannot be opposed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160818	00.00! The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160822	Now I think that Jens Rohde in the European Parliament will be delighted, because now that pro-European fire speech came to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Mrs Zenia Stampe must be praised for that, because I think it is actually bubbling inside Mr Zenia Stampe. Jan E. Jørgensen to say something of the same as Mrs. Zenia Stampe says, but Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen not really allowed to, and so it is. However, I am glad that Mrs Zenia Stampe said that if it were for the Radical Left and the European Union, then the whole record should be filled. That's terrific. We cannot then report more EU-positively. So the pro-European fire speech came at the end of the supplemental period and at the questions. It's just noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160903	You don't have to tease each other with extra time if you live in a glass house. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160911	What do you want me to tell you? Sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth is so kind today. I don't know what to say to that. Why don't we just see if anyone else has a question?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160924	There are no more questions for Mrs Zenia Stampe or any brief comments, so we thank you for today's work. I do not see anyone from the SF present, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Jarlov no, nor do I see anyone from the Conservative People's Party present. But then we move on to the Foreign Minister, who is warmly welcome to the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201160943	Thank you for that and thank you for the debate and for your commitment to the debate and to the issue. I'm really, really happy about that. I am also pleased that there is such a great willingness on the part of the parties to discuss these issues, because there is no such final answer, and this is clear from the debate. There are different places of emphasis, and I guess that's the way it's supposed to be. There are some broad lines on which we seem to agree in the Danish Parliament at least on which a broad majority agrees. Firstly, the European Union is, after all, part of the solution. This is true when we look at some of the major challenges we face; it is true when we look at what opportunities globalisation and technology offer us. After all, there is a consensus that we need to use the European Union here in a sensible and constructive way on the issue of terrorism, protectionism, an expansive Russia, relations with the United States, some of the major areas where it makes sense to use the European Union. That's where we need to focus. There is no way around the European Union there. At the same time, from the government's point of view, it must be what has also been highlighted in today's debate, namely a leaner and more effective European Union. There Denmark tries to pull in that direction primarily by looking forward and not so much by looking back, but by saying: What is the focus supposed to be on? Yes, it is true, as Mrs Zenia Stampe has said, that if you ask the individual party around the Chamber, there are probably different offers. We on the part of the government say that it must be a freer Europe; it must be an EU with a focus on free trade and free movement; it must be an EU with a focus where concrete solutions are really provided for the individual population and for the people of Europe as a whole. Danish views have We take the debate continuously both in the public and here in the Folketing, and we must continue to do so. If the EU can stick together and solve specific problems, then support for the project will also increase, and so will it, in the context of a wakeup call. Well, when the British resigned from the project, we could see in the measurements that the support increased. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, I think it was, referred to a measurement of whether the EU should deal with even more things, and it was then used as a jubilant interpretation that the resistance might be greater than it seems, etc., namely that it was 56 per cent. or more, which considered that one should not concern oneself with further areas. But I agree with that. In other words, there is a wide range of issues that the European Union is dealing with today. The point is really just to try to focus on what for some of the areas we are dealing with today, which are the essential ones, and then use the forces there. This increases the likelihood of achieving goals and delivering concrete results. This is a bit like saying at once that you want to stop smoking, that you want to eat a little less and that you want to get in better shape. So the probability of getting to the finish in any of the three elements is very small. But if you focus on one of the points, it may be that you actually get to the goal and deliver the product on the specific point. And once you have delivered on it, you can move on to the next topic. So much remains to be discussed with the European Union. The basic thing is that the European Union is there and must be used for what makes sense to citizens and gives concrete results. And we would most likely be in a situation where we would reinvent the European Union if it were not there in advance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161325	Thank you. That was a brief remark made by Mr. Kenneth Kristensen Berth.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161329	However, this is a completely different rhetoric than the one the Foreign Minister had back in 2014, as the Foreign Minister was not Foreign Minister. I have to say that when the Foreign Minister had then become Foreign Minister there in December last year, the Foreign Minister promised a new European policy. I just have to ask the Secretary of State: where is it? What is the Foreign Minister saying today, which could not have been said in October 2016 by the Foreign Minister's predecessor? I'd like to know. And I am not the only one who has that question; many are considering it. If it is the case that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is proposing a new European policy and it may well be that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not have the outlines of it today if there is to be a new European policy, should there not there also be a new European political agreement? In other words, should we not have a new basis for discussing European policy, also in the light of the fact that we now have to take a position on these scenarios for the development of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161430	I believe that concrete changes have already taken place, including in the way we discuss European cooperation, in relation to what we did a few years ago, and there are many elements that can help us to end up in that situation. One of them may be that the Liberal Alliance has come into government, while another is that we saw a referendum where there was a majority that wanted it to go in one direction while we were some others who thought it should go in another direction, and then it ended in a different direction. The fact that Brexit has arrived also means that we are discussing the European Union in a different way. It is also that the Commission has changed direction so that it does not take as many legislative initiatives as it did before, but is more focused on implementing the things that they are actually addressing. So there are many places that are playing in the direction of what I said at the time, and which I think are more clearly and more clearly also the Danish EU policy. One last element that I could mention, where there has also been a shift, is that both the Prime Minister and myself have been out to say that, in relation to the European Union, we do not see any sense in continuing to give the Turks some perspective that they should join the European Community. It was not something that was part of the government's policy until the Liberal Alliance came into government, but at least now it is something that both the Prime Minister and I ourselves have been out to point out.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161544	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161545	That, of course, is fine, it certainly is. Just for the sake of good order, I would say that it was 56 per cent who wanted less EU in that study from Voxmeter, so it was not just a question of the Danes being satisfied with the existing one, because they would simply have power back, and I think that should also be a priority for the government, and I really think that the Foreign Minister owes it to him. After all, the Foreign Minister must remember that back in 2014, the Foreign Minister was prepared to break EU rules on children's checks, and today we are in a situation where we are paying SU loans to foreigners without having a Chineseman's chance to get them back. There may also be grounds for the Foreign Minister to go out and say that we have to simply break these rules for emergency reasons.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161631	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161632	I do not know how much to add in relation to whether the European Union should interfere in several things, or about the 56%. I think it's a good idea to get involved in fewer things. I can also agree entirely with that, because it lies in a leaner and more efficient European Union. So that is not something on which we necessarily have to disagree. I think we need to be careful that we talk further away from each other than is necessary and be careful to establish some contradictions with each other where that is not necessary. Right now, we have some issues on which it is very important to focus, and that is resolving the migration crisis, and that is where I think the European Union is helping to deliver with, among other things. the agreement we are making with Turkey. It is in relation to Brexit, that is to say to get it settled, and it looks as if there is a little movement in it now, so that something more realism comes into that discussion, and it is also a very important discussion to have. And then there are also some discussions that Denmark has been involved in travelling, among others. In relation to welfare benefits, whether there should be a social union or not there should be a social union, where things also look as they start to point in the right direction. I mean, it could be one of those things. Because some people have at some point been out to say that you have to solve this problem, otherwise the individual states will just act on it. It is better that we get into a situation where we solve it together than that we end up in that situation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161751	Then it's Mrs. Zenia Stampe.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161756	I would like to ask you about the big things and the little things, or how it is formulated. I just want to ask what are the big things and what are the little things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161813	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161814	Well, I actually think the answer is a little reverse of it. Instead, you have to look at what the five, six, seven, eight big things that we need to focus on are, and then don't spend a lot of time on the other. This is actually what the Commission has already begun to take the initiative in not having so many legislative measures. It is an expression of putting away the little things, and then you focus on the big things instead. That movement is already well underway, and I assume that the Radical Left rapporteur too fully agrees that this is a good priority. There is also a former leader of the Radical Left who is one of the Commissioners responsible for this change of direction. So I guess that's just something we can agree with. That's the way it is. This also corresponds slightly to the Liberal Alliance's approach to legislative work in general, namely to focus on the framework rather than go down in all sorts of details that could be resolved elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161904	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201161906	But then it'll just be such a chorus if it doesn't become more concrete than that. As I read the scepticism, it is also because there is a great deal of disagreement in some of the major areas, i.e. for example. migration. There are some who think it should play a greater role, so that we may be able to get a better distribution of solidarity here. I am not talking about just my own party, but there might also be some southern European countries that think it is really important, and there are some other countries that think otherwise. So I do not think it is possible to resolve the European Union's crises by saying that there are some important things, and these are the ones here, and then there are all those small, indifferent things, and we need to get them away. I really think that's a misread. I still miss hearing examples of what those little, indifferent things are, because has it really annoyed people so much that it doesn't matter? What I just heard before now I quickly wrote down some notes was economics, security, migration. I think maybe it was sir. Jan E. Jørgensen, who said that. I would just like to ask that question, because I assume that it is one of the important things, namely migration, which is totally debated and controversial and where there are many different views on what role the European Union should play. But I have to ask, because some of these areas are also characterised by the fact that we have a reservation. What is the government's position on an EU that is becoming stronger on the economy, perhaps on security, perhaps also on migration, in other words on three areas that are all subject to our reservations, or on euro reserves, or on defence reservations, or on legal reservations? What are the ideas of the government in this regard?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162039	The government has no ambition to go out and experiment with getting rid of any of the reservations. This is also true, although I have never concealed the fact that I would like to see people get rid of, for example. The defence reserve. And I would like at some point to end up with that, I already proposed the day after the last referendum a much more narrow referendum on police cooperation in Europe. But that's just not where we are. We also need to stop banging our heads right into defeat. There's no need to do that. We must do so when the time is right and when the time is right. That it is the case that there are some who are going to expand or develop European cooperation more in depth, and we are therefore being sidelined a little more, I suppose we can see an example in defence cooperation, where we are currently working specifically on some models. It is clear that every time we have it up and discuss it, I have to say on behalf of Denmark that we cannot, of course, participate actively in it because we have a reservation. That is how it is when you have had referendums on it and the Danish people have decided where the framework is, in relation to what we should be part of as a full member.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162148	Sir. Mikkel Dencker.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162150	Thank you. I would like to hear the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the following. Now we have had Brexit, and this has given rise to some reflection in many parts of the EU, both in the Commission and also in the government itself, and this paper has been arrived at with the five scenarios. Now that the government has reached a course, would you like to make a referendum to see if the direction taken by the government is in line with what the people are thinking? I think it is important for there to be consistency between what the government thinks and what the people think. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been very pleased about this in the past before he became a minister. Then does the Foreign Minister not think that there is a good idea for more referendums on the European Union, also in addition to those prescribed by the Constitution?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162243	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162245	The answer is no, and it is simply because I do not know how to cut it at all, in other words define it in such a way that it made sense to take it out in a referendum. So there are also things for which we have a Parliament, a representative democracy, and that is to say that it is a majority in the Folketing that is putting a line, at least a line for which the government has to stand by, and that is the way it is done. And then there are parliamentary elections every four years, where you can choose to say that this has been completely misguided by politicians, so that is why we choose some other politicians. I guess that's how it's supposed to be. Then it is sometimes in some very specific areas that we take some referenda, and we have done so at the latest in relation to the legal reservation. That vote ended as it did. It ended up where the Liberal Alliance also recommended that it should end. I would like us to get rid of the defence reserve, which I have mentioned as a specific issue, on which it would be wonderful to take a referendum. I just don't think you have to experiment with this right now, the way the situation is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162342	I am a little disappointed in that answer, because it almost sounds like it is V and K's policy to ask the Danes only in cases where the Constitution requires it, and otherwise in all other cases it is referred to as representative democracy, and it is then the Folketing that takes the decisions. So it's a little disappointing. But now I know that the Foreign Minister has a lot to say in the government, so could it not be that that influence could be used to influence the Left and the Conservatives to move towards more referendums? For I know that the Liberal Alliance, which the Minister represents in the Folketing, has advocated in the past. So isn't it an idea to use the influence to get more of them?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162429	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162430	No, because I am now being asked about a very specific, but very unconcerned issue, which would then possibly have to be put to a referendum, and I myself said that I do not think this is a good idea, so it would be really strange if I then, when I think it is a bad idea myself, went to try to influence V and K to think it should be a good idea. That would be very, very strange, so no, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162449	Thank you to the Minister for that. Then we start on the second round, which means that sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth has the floor. I shall tell the other rapporteurs that we have planned by the Bureau that there will be a shift until 1 p.m. In any case, if the debate were to develop along the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162510	That would be great. There is nothing like discussing the European Union, even on Friday afternoons. Moreover, Friday afternoon is very well suited to discussing politics at all. Nevertheless, I would like to take as a starting point the fact that we are probably rounding off the debate, but that is of course not a requirement. I would like to start by thanking the parties that have participated in the debate. And in fact, I would also like to thank Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, even though he wasn't here, for mr. Holger K. Nielsen usually takes part in these debates. But even this time I will not say that I find it very strange that the Conservative People's Party, with its rapporteur, Mr. Rasmus Jarlov has now not participated in a European political debate since 2015. So it is absurd that you can read articles in newspapers and elsewhere about what Mr. Rasmus Jarlov thinks about the EU, but in the Assembly Hall Rasmus Jarlov doesn't think he should show up. I find that unsatisfactory. It is fair to say that Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck thought it worth taking part in a European political debate, while Mr. Rasmus Jarlov was on leave. But otherwise the Conservative People's Party, which has otherwise been joined by x number of members to fill the seats that current ministers had not found occasion to discuss the European Union. I'm so surprised. But let's just leave it alone. I'm hoping at some point that you can get Mr. Keating beaten up. Rasmus Jarlov up from the cave he's placed in. I really think we have had an excellent debate. Of course it has not been so concrete, but it is also difficult to be concrete, one might say, in relation to these scenarios, because they are a little bit floating still away. But perhaps you would have liked a little more specific statements. What I really find interesting is that the rhetoric has, after all, changed. I think it is now difficult to find anyone other than the Radical Left and the Alternative, as such, who estimates the cheering European tone. And it would be very good if it were to be followed by concrete action, if it were to be the case that at the meetings of the Committee on European Affairs and outside this House there was a different approach to the specific policy of the European Union. And there I still think we miss a lot. There is a little bit in the area of employment where the government estimates a slightly more critical line, but I think that there is still a long way to go to reverse the line, given that the scepticism that may be with the European Union here is really getting through in EU policy. It may also be that the elections to the European Parliament are getting closer. It is usually the case that, as that election draws closer, the more sceptical the 'yes' parties become, and then the kayak is turned when the elections to the European Parliament are over. In any case, however, I think that it will be interesting to follow the work now to be done in relation to the question of the direction in which we are going. I am concerned, I should like to say, and I therefore believe that when Jean-Claude Juncker, in six months' time, could go from saying that the European Union is in crisis, and then the European Union has a chance to win, given that a French President had been elected, this is a shining example of how far the European Union really is from the people. And in the view of the Danish People's Party, one must therefore take that scepticism seriously. Otherwise, there is a risk that the entire project that has been lined up will suffer shipwreck. Perhaps one can then say that it really does not do so much. After all, one can gradually have some doubts as to whether it does or does not. In any case, I would like to thank you for a good debate and thank all those who took part in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162917	You're welcome. This just led to a request for a brief comment from Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162926	Thank you. When we talk about self-examination and so on, does it not also put the idea in the head of the Danish People's Party that the Dutch voted as the Dutch voted and that the French voted as the French voted and the debate that is going on in Britain now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162945	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201162946	I have some doubts as to what the Dutch have voted on, which should give rise to self-criticism. Was it when the Dutch and the French voted against the Constitutional Treaty? After all, this did not give rise to a self-examination in the EU system, we can say, because there you simply reinvented the deep plate and called it the Treaty of Lisbon, and then the Danes were not allowed to vote. I don't know if that was the French presidential election or what. It could be. It's just that this Emmanuel Macron guy isn't so popular down there. He's not quite at the level of François Hollande, but he's gonna be there. He's gonna be there. So I'm not so worried about that, but maybe Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen flesh out what he meant.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201163028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201163030	I'm quite sure that sir... Kenneth Kristensen Berth well knows what kind of choice I am talking about. And we agree that the president of France is not called Le Pen and that the Prime Minister of the Netherlands is not called Geert Wilders. Do we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171201163050	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201163051	Yes, we are in complete agreement on that. It is also a pity that this did not happen, but it may well come sometime. As I said, Macron is well on his way to land in the same place as François Hollande. And then I would say: I do not know if you can conjure up some charlatan down there, which you can run as a presidential candidate against Marine Le Pen. I won't say that, but that's the way it is. But you can also look at Germany. In other words, the result that was in Germany was in every way historic and also shows a deep, deep scepticism about the political elite and the project being undertaken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201163127	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. There does not appear to be any more rapporteurs wishing to speak, and that is why the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place on Tuesday, 5 December 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20171201163146	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. I would like to thank everyone for their hard work today, and I would like to wish them a good weekend. We will meet again next week with new energy and, as we say in South Jutland, clean straw in the clogs. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 5 December 2017, at 3 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out on the Danish Parliament's website, and I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which is also shown on the Danish Parliament's website.
