ParlaMint-DK_20170502130005	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130024	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130043	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption tabled. There are three proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 91 by Klaus Markussen (V), Laura Lindahl (LA) and Nase Khader (KF), and a vote must be taken. The vote will end. In favour 37 (V, LA and KF), against 55 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 22 (DF). Proposal for adoption No V 91 is thus rejected. Secondly, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 89 of Marlene Harpsøe (DF) and can be voted. The vote will end. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 89 is rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the motion for a resolution (Doc. V 90 by Mattia Tesfaye (S), Fock Josephine (ALT), Sofie Carsten Nielsen (RV) and Karsten Hønge (SF), and voting is possible. We shall conclude the vote. in favour of 44 (S, ALT, RV and SF), against 65 (DF, V, EL, LA and KF), abstentions 0. Although we are getting closer, proposals for adoption are no. However, the V 90 was rejected, so the third time was not even a lucky one. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130307	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130337	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. We shall conclude the vote. In favour 108 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstention 0. The bill has been unanimously adopted [and will now be sent to the Prime Minister].
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130405	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130459	Does anyone wish to speak? - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Henning Hyllested the word? Mr. Henning Hyllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130545	Thank you. Despite the fact that you have been sitting here for almost 6 years, you are not quite familiar with all the procedures. I take the floor because we have promised in the report our position on one part of the legislative proposal that has now been divided, and that is the part that will be called L 141A, which contains a whole series of elements. That's why it's divided. Sometimes you find yourself in a situation where there are things you like and things you don't like, and then you have to weigh them up against each other. That is the situation we are in here. We like the fact that the Road Directorate is given the opportunity to take over the parking control on the state road network, not least in order to be able to put into rest areas, where today we see both long-term parking, I would say camping, and accommodation for a lot of East drivers who are waiting for orders and who have nothing to do with them. This is an unsustainable situation that has arisen in a number of rest places. It should be possible to resolve this if the Road Directorate makes an effort. Now they get the opportunity. We also like the part of the proposal which deals with fixed-term parking, mostly because it is a modernisation of the rules. It is a question of technological development. Today you can use other means than just the traditional parking disc, although it is easy to use. We like that. We do not like it so much that the Minister is going to make it right, very difficult to introduce car-free zones, although only when we are talking about private common roads. We're not so happy about that. In fact, we think it is a good idea, and a number of municipalities have worked on the idea, and we think they should be allowed to do so. There is no need to put further obstacles in the way of this being possible. Nor are we enthusiastic about the proposal to lift the ban on parking in the outer debate, and we refer, of course, to the consultation answers that have come from the large municipalities, namely Copenhagen and Aarhus. But we admit that in the answers from the Ministry we have now got over the weekend and that's some of what we've been waiting for, and that's why we're explaining it now after all in relation to our position is a certain softening or at least a clarification of what it is you want to do with this. Therefore, when weighing the various elements against each other, we end up choosing to vote yellow for Bill L 141 A.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130826	Thank you. Do more people want to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130834	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (S, EL and RV), endorsed by a majority (the other committee) that the bill is divided into two legislative proposals? The division of the bill has been adopted. Then the proposal mentioned under A is put to the vote [Proposal for a Law amending the Road Traffic Code] (Time-limited parking, the possibility for the Road Authority to take over parking control, etc.)PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2 of a minority (S, EL and RV), elected by a majority (other committees)? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130918	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502130938	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF). In favour of 24 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 84 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0] The amendment has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 2 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF) and then you get to vote. We shall conclude the vote. For voting 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against voting 83 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), [no votes for or against 0.] The amendment has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 3 of a minority (S) and a vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of voting 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 55 (DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Then we shall vote on Amendment No. 4 of a minority (EL, ALT, RV and SF) and a vote must be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 23 votes (EL, ALT, RV and SF), against 81 votes (S, DF, V, LA and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I therefore propose that the draft law should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131145	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131207	Thank you. Among other things: In view of the fact that we have received a request from the Institute for Human Rights, which points to a number of options that we would like to have the opportunity to examine further, I would ask that the negotiations be suspended so that the negotiations are suspended. The same applies to the next item on the agenda, item 8, second reading of Bill No. L 163.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131234	The proposal by Jan E. Jørgensen (V) has now been put forward that the examination of L 162 should be stopped and that the proposal should be referred back to committee. The debate on interruption is taking place with one brief comment, so that a member of each of the groups has the opportunity to speak. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on behalf of the Committee on the
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131255	Is there a vote to be taken? We are ready for the vote and a vote can be taken. We shall conclude the vote. In favour, 84 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions 23 (DF). The proposal to suspend the debate on L 162 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131412	Jan E. Jørgensen (V) also proposed that the examination of L 163 be suspended and that the proposal be referred back to committee. Does anyone wish to comment on that? There isn't. Is there a request for a vote on the proposal put forward? Then I consider the proposal to suspend the debate on L 163 as adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131503	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131522	After all, we are dealing with amendments to this proposal and it is about what the limits of the library tax should be. The library fee is, of course, something you get to make your books available in libraries. It is not a bill or a salary, but it is a cultural aid scheme, so that by making your books available you can have the opportunity to write some more books, and it is, in fact, a very good idea that we have that arrangement. The problem is just where the limits should go: should we be able to receive money forever and should we be able to receive an unlimited amount? There we have then agreed to set some limits for it and say: okay, it exceeds a certain amount, we think it is reasonable that it should be reduced. And the proposal that I am going to speak in favour of here is a suggestion that we should take it down a little earlier. In fact, it is the case that today you can receive 35,000-40,000 kroner. library fees, plus what you saw from selling books and through publishing houses, without there being any reduction. We also know that this is something that has been the subject of public debate from time to time: what is really the idea that through our public library system and our public lending we award authors who, by the way, have a good income, many, many hundreds of thousands of kroner? What is the purpose of this when it is now a cultural aid scheme to support culture? That is why we have tabled this proposal, which is a very, very moderate proposal, I would like to start by saying. This means that we are beginning to reduce the amount you receive when you are paid DKK 35,000. a month. That is to say, you get paid 35,000 kroner. a month and DKK 420,000. a year, in pure library fees, a modest reduction begins. That escalation continues if you earn $480,000, and then it reaches its peak if you make more than $540,000. only at the library fee. I mean, when you get $45,000. a month from the government to make your books available, then only 25% will be paid out. of the rest. So you still get away with something, but not 100 percent. Of course, this proposal means that there will be some money left over. There will be some money which will not be paid out, and that money can then be spent, and that is what the proposal says to all the authors in the intermediate group, which means that instead of giving money to people who have a lot in advance, it supports what is the real purpose of this, namely to be a cultural policy scheme to promote people's production of books. I am, of course, very pleased that the Danish People's Party and the SF support this amendment. Of course, I am not so happy that a number of other parties do not support it, and I wonder a little. Because it is now because they really think it is very reasonable that hundreds of thousands of dollars can be obtained from taxpayers' money year after year by making their books available, while at the same time having other revenue from the sale of books etc.? Or is it simply because we are too little revolutionary? Because it is a very limited proposal that we are making here, and one can get the idea that someone thinks it is too little because it does not provide enough for the broad group of authors. It is just that I think that, if that is the reason, that we are simply too weak in the codes, then we would like to get up a little between the second and third readings, and then we are very willing to negotiate with those of you who have not supported this proposal to tighten it up. But if it is because you are opposed in principle to having such phasing-out arrangements and that you actually have the principle that it is a good thing that a few authors can get hundreds of thousands of taxpayers' dollars, yes, okay, then we probably cannot reach a compromise. However, this is a call for discussion here at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131954	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Alex Ahrendtsen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502131959	Thank you, President. I would just like to say a few words about the amendment tabled by the Danish People's Party, which deals with the minimum limit for the payment of library fees. Today it is 1,500 DKK, and the price projected is about 2,200-2,300 DKK. More than a year and a half ago, we raised the issue because we simply thought it was too high. There were a number of authors who were not paid a fee for having their books in the library, and it is a little unfair that, when you have written a book in the libraries, you do not get money when the book is lent. That is why we proposed that we should have a minimum limit of DKK 500, and I would first like to thank the entire Danish Parliament for the fact that a level of DKK 1,250 was reached. was a good level. We would like to go further down, and that is why we have proposed that the minimum limit be 500 DKK in future. This means that all authors who receive more than 500 kroner. in the library fee, so that their money will also be paid out, and we hope, of course, that the Danish Parliament will consider and vote in favour at the third reading, and we would also like to thank those parties who then support a minimum limit of DKK 500. I would say, however, that 1.250 kroner. is better than the current limit of about DKr 2,300. So if it turns out that the Folketing cannot agree to lower the additional DKK 500, as we have proposed, then, of course, at the third reading, we will vote in favour of the bill as such and thus a limit of DKK 1,250. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132147	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132158	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 1 by a minority (DF), joined by a minority (SF), and voting must be held. The vote will end. In favour of 26 (DF and SF), against 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2, by a minority (EL), joined by a minority (DF and SF), and voting must be done. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 33 (DF, EL and SF), against 73 (S, V, LA, ALT, RV, KF and 1 DF (by mistake)), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132315	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132350	Does anyone wish to speak? Mr. Christian Langballe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132415	I have promised in the report that we will explain our position on this bill, and it is something as amazing and exciting as the church of the people. I am not going to explain the proposal in its entirety, because I assume that it is wasted God's word on Balle-Lars, but we have thought about it here, and we believe that the proposal provides for some freedoms and support for freedom in the people's church. At the same time, we also believe that the proposal actually contains some coercive mechanisms which we do not believe are compatible, and therefore we cannot vote in favour. If it is the case that the amendment we have tabled will shortly be adopted, then we will vote in favour, otherwise we will not. I would just like to point out one thing, and that is that this proposal could well be very expensive, and this could result in a rise in the national church tax, and we would certainly be very concerned about that. So, given that concern, we end up voting against an otherwise good proposal. However, there are too many coercive mechanisms, and I understand that the other parties are not voting in favour of our amendments, so I might as well announce that we are voting no. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132549	Thank you to the rapporteur. Do more people want to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we can then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132600	Amendment No 1 shall be put to the vote. 2 of a minority (DF) and therefore it is necessary to vote. I shall conclude the vote. For the vote 22 (DF), against 87 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The amendment has been rejected. 1, 3 and 4, tabled by the same minority, lapsed. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 5, to be elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132656	The debate is open. Sir. Mattias Tesfaye, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502132811	Thank you for the floor. After all, it is a good day for Denmark and a good day for social democracy. In fact, we come a little closer to solving a major social problem, the lack of internships. In addition, several rules in both primary and post-school areas are adjusted in a more sensible direction. We will be missing 60 000 skilled workers as early as 2025, which is why it is of course gratifying that we can now deal with a legislative proposal which, according to our assessment, will alleviate the lack of internships slightly and thus increase the proportion of skilled workers in Danish society. The model presented by the government, in agreement with the trade union movement and employers' organisations, is based on the same principles as the proposal that we ourselves have been proposing by the Social Democrats for some time. Companies that take few pupils must pay more to companies that take more pupils. It is a model that the government has previously rejected as a solution to the internship shortage, and we are therefore of course particularly pleased that we have managed to stand here today. We had imagined ourselves a more simple and transparent model for this redistribution between companies, but we also have respect for the fact that it would be a model that would bring back support in the business world, and that is why we now have a relatively complicated model in the first place. It should not, however, spoil our mood. The most important thing is that we now have a hand in the legislation that we can then turn on if we want to increase the financial gain again by taking responsibility for education. Social democracy is of the opinion that both employers and Parliament have for many years failed thousands of young people by not securing enough internships and, of course, that cannot be done. We simply cannot do this if we want to continue to maintain a vocational training system that alternates between school stays and practical training in a real company. Therefore, there is good reason to welcome the fact that, in their consultation response, employers signal that they are ready to take this responsibility, and now it is our turn to get it adopted. In addition to the initiatives to ensure more internships, today's draft law also contains a number of other sensible initiatives. It will be possible for internships to produce goods and provide services at market conditions. That makes sense. The use of company-based education and partial agreements and short training agreements is being tightened up, it is also sensible, and some post-secondary schools are being given the opportunity to start up vocational training with the local technical school or commercial school or sosu school, and we support this as well. Finally, more pupils will get guidance and be able to participate in bridge building, and students can already enter 6th grade work experience. It may not be changes that will draw the big headlines, but it is all adjustments that strengthen the Danish education system and hopefully will help to secure more skilled workers. We support the proposal and look forward to the examination of the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133043	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Marlene Harpsøe, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133054	We lack internships, and by 2025 we have a rather big problem: the lack of up to 60 000 more skilled workers. Therefore, everyone's eyes were also directed towards the social partners and the government, which was to negotiate a tripartite agreement back in 2016. The focus was on internships, and the parties stood with Denmark's future in their hands. They knew the seriousness, and in the eyes of the Danish People's Party a very important agreement was reached, which was an important milestone. In the agreement, the parties undertake to create 8,000 to 10.000 more internships than the number of internships was in 2015. These were the negotiations of the parties, but we then held positions in the Danish People's Party on the direction in which we think the negotiations should go. Therefore, we in the Danish People's Party had proposed to create financial incentives for companies to employ more pupils and apprentices. Companies should feel it on the wallet if they did not hire pupils or apprentices. The social partners and the government succeeded in reaching a good agreement precisely where it was agreed that companies which contribute to the training of skilled labour are rewarded and companies which do not contribute sufficiently to the training of professional labour are given greater financial responsibility. In addition, there are several elements of the tripartite agreement which will be possible with the draft law here, among others. the training centres are able to produce goods and services at market conditions. That's good, too. The draft law we are discussing here also contains elements which are not part of the tripartite agreement. We have, for example. In the context of vocational training reform, the group agreed that it should be possible as an experimental system to establish the 10th class in post-school education, where, at the same time as its 10th class, the first part of the initial course of vocational training will be given. We hope that it will help more people to take up vocational training, although the proposal is only a small piece of a very, very large puzzle that needs to be put together to achieve the objective of securing more skilled workers. However, regardless of what we do in legislation, the most important thing in my view is that we all speak up vocational training. Vocational training has an undeserved bad image. We need to talk up vocational training, and we, who are skilled, now I say we, because I myself am also skilled, can take the lead and tell you how good it is to have a staff letter. There are over 100 good educations, and with a vocational training course you will find it easier to get jobs than the newly trained academics, just as you will actually receive a fairly good salary on several vocational training courses. With a vocational training, you need both your head and your hands. It's great to be a skilled man. With these comments, we in the Danish People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133413	Thank you to the rapporteur and the next in line is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, the Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133424	Thank you. As the previous rapporteurs have also said, we are today dealing first with a legislative proposal which addresses one of the perhaps most important challenges facing our society, namely to ensure that Danish companies can obtain the labour they also demand and that Danish young people can train for work and not for unemployment. We know that the labour market is already in demand for young people with vocational training, and if we are not to lose Danish jobs and growth, we simply have to listen to business and act accordingly. That is why our government is also giving priority to vocational training, and we have also set an objective, together with several other parties, for more young people to choose vocational training. It must be more attractive to be able to choose a vocational training course, and one of the obstacles that has been encountered is, among other things, that there has been a lack of internships, because it offers greater security for young people if they know that there is also the possibility of obtaining an internship. Our government has given priority to vocational training, but that is not enough. The government supports vocational schools, but there is also a need for industry to step in, and fortunately they do. That is why, as a member of the Left, I am also extremely proud that we had a tripartite agreement made back in 2016, when we secured the creation of 8,000-10,000 internships. The proposal for a law here means, among other things, that companies which contribute specifically to the training of skilled workers are rewarded and, at the same time, that those companies which do not contribute sufficiently take greater responsibility by helping to finance further through employers' training contributions. That is fair, because we must all play a part in the task, and it is no use that only some companies take responsibility and contribute more internships. This requires that more are pulling in the same direction. So it is not a question of punishing, but, in fact, a question of how we are all helping, in solidarity, to ensure that we also have the labour we need in the future. On the basis of that, the Left will, of course, vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133658	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Jakob Sølvhøj mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133704	Thank you. The draft law here, as several rapporteurs have already mentioned, is part of the implementation of the tripartite agreement on internships concluded last August. It follows on from the legislative amendments adopted by the Danish Parliament in December amending the law on employers' contributions to education and the law on vocational training. On that occasion, we stated on behalf of the Enhedslisten that we have strong doubts as to whether the tripartite agreement will contribute significantly to solving the internship problem. This has not changed from December to today. We still do not believe that the tripartite agreement and the legislation implementing it have any substance which would in any way make it possible for the objective set out in the tripartite agreement to increase the number of traineeships by 8 000 to 10.000 to become a reality. In considering the proposals in December, we also said that we have some concern about the dimensioning model of the agreement, which we fear may have a negative impact on the number of placements. I have noted, in reading through the consultation answers we have received for this bill, that at least some of the consultation parties express the same concern. In the legislative process in December, despite the scepticism which I have now repeated here, we chose to support the first legislative proposals implementing the agreement, in the hope that, despite the scepticism we have, it will prove to be a small step in the right direction, and will, logically, support the proposal before us, but we will closely monitor the progress of the work on placements, and we expect the government to take steps to change the agreed structure and take new initiatives if it turns out that there is no growth in the number of places for work placements which the parties to the tripartite agreement have set up as their objective.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133928	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next one is sir. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502133936	Thank you for that, President. One of the things that has a significant impact on young people's choice of education is that many find it unnecessarily difficult to obtain an internship, even in cases where vocational training is what they prefer. That is a pity, because I very much agree with Mrs Marlene Harpsøe when she states that it is very important to talk vocational training up and not talk them down. So this discrepancy has long been a desire to make up for it. At the trialogue negotiations in autumn 2016, an agreement was made which now improves the possibility of an internship. What is the aim is that, in the future, somewhere between 8 000 and 10 000 more should be created than today's year. And that is the goal to be achieved by playing a series of keys, so to speak. The financial incentives will be strengthened, there will be more emphasis on training, and more emphasis will be placed on outreach work to create internships. As Mr. Mattias Tesfaye also pointed out in his speech that it might be argued that the proposal is a bit complicated, not to say bureaucratic. I must, of course, be sceptical about this in my capacity as rapporteur for bureaucracy. However, although it is not generally the case that the end justifies the means, I would say that in this case, hopefully, the complications will be justified by the results and that is why LA supports the legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134135	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier for the alternative, here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134142	Thank you. This bill is, after all, the implementation of parts of the tripartite agreement concluded between the previous government and the social partners. It is a stated objective of this tripartite agreement that more young people should choose to pursue vocational training. Therefore, with this bill, the government's intention is that vocational training will again be the first choice for much more young people after primary school. In the alternative, we fully agree with the identified challenge that exists: there is not enough choice of vocational training. And we agree that initiatives must be taken to meet that challenge. That is why we also support this bill. We believe that this is a good step towards achieving the task of getting more people to choose vocational training. There are elements in the draft law that we are actually quite enthusiastic about, among others. the promotion of internships to the 6th and 7th classes, the possibility of setting up a vocationally oriented 10th class, the better conditions for cooperation with companies and vocational schools. This is very much needed and, above all, the possibility of changing the bridge-building courses, so that it is now possible for everyone and not only for those who are declared non-educational. There are elements that we can also be critical of, of course there are. We are not thrilled that this bill introduces an extension of the possibilities of introducing disciplinary responses to pupils in vocational schools. We do not think that this should be necessary. We may also be concerned that the system of grants for schools to disseminate educational agreements may have a social impact, because this may mean that students with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish may be at the end of the queue, because it may be easier for schools to make agreements for ethnic Danish pupils. It is a concern which is very important to be aware of, and it could be that one should consider whether one should give some extra incentives to those schools for whom it succeeds in undertaking the task of communicating equal number of internships to ethnic Danish pupils and pupils who are not ethnic Danish. When all these praises are given to the bill, I would also like to say that it solves part of the challenge, but it does not address the fundamental change that we believe is needed in the alternative if we really want more young people to choose vocational training as their first priority. I have said this many times before, and I say it again about the weighting of subjects in primary school. It is about the fact that from the very small classes we are getting the creative and craftsmanship subjects far more on the track in primary school. It must be quantitative, i.e. according to how much they fill, it must also be qualitative, based on how much recognition we give them, among other things. in the way we provide feedback to the students, in the way we provide feedback to the students and parents on how the students are doing in school. It is clear that you are in a school-home conversation with Søren, who is very good at craftsmanship and design, but perhaps not the best in the Danish class, and it is the Danish and mathematics teacher who sits at the school-home conversation with the parents, you might forget to tell the parents that Søren is really good at craftsmanship and design. So the task is largely to give the craft sector and the creative professions the recognition they deserve in primary school. In the debate on Thursday, the Minister mentioned that initiatives have been taken at the upper level, i.e. in the school leaving school, to provide some special opportunities for more craft-oriented lines so that pupils in the large classes can inform themselves about it. It's just not good enough. It's fine in itself, but in the big picture it's not good enough at all, because the whole gap up to the big classes, where we've taken a lot of these creative subjects out of class, we don't just get to patch up by saying that in the 7th, 8th and 9th classes you can choose some subjects that are more craft-oriented. We simply need to have the enthusiasm for creative craftsmanship, the enthusiasm to play, the enthusiasm to create curiosity, to be allowed to experiment and use his hands with which children are born, preserved all the way up through primary school. This means that we have to weigh the trades differently. I was just talking to the Minister about Morten, who was in the debate last Thursday. He was absolutely fantastic, and I would recommend everyone who wants to see it to go to the debate's website and see what Morten, who is learning as a ground and concrete worker, says is needed if you are to be enthusiastic as a student to choose the vocational training courses. I fully agree with him in his observations on this. We're still missing that. We think this bill is a fine step on the way. We support it. We're waiting for the rest to come too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134639	Thank you to the rapporteur. We have reached Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134646	Thank you. We'd like more people to become skilled. This bill can help move one step in the right direction. Many other rapporteurs before me have mentioned many of the elements of this, so I would rather spend my time celebrating that it can sometimes be said to be very patient because things come to you in politics. The main element of this is the change in payment, depending on whether you are lifting your responsibilities with apprentices or not. This was one of the things that the then Minister of Education, Christine Antorini, and I worked for, even when we started the business school negotiations. But at the time it was an ultimate requirement, not least on the Left side, that it could absolutely not be tampered with. I've just been back to study. At that time, the Left rapporteur, Peter Juel Jensen, said: "Christine Antorini and I are obviously moving in two different worlds...it is a misguided thought to punish the companies. Today, we are faced with a legislative proposal which is precisely what we had in mind at the time, namely to reward the employers who take apprentices and, on the other hand, to ask that those who do not lift their responsibilities pay a little more. That is why I think there is good reason to enjoy the speeches made by the blue parties. That is very nice to hear, and I am glad that there is now broad support for us to do something about this together. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134824	Thank you. One person has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134829	I have to say that I could not help but make a bit of teasing the other way, because I could hear that the Radical Left rapporteur needed to tease the Left a little. I would say that I think we should welcome the fact that, fortunately, we had a Left Government in 2016, which finally managed to get a tripartite agreement in place so that we could also put this agreement in place. Does the Radical Left rapporteur not recognise that it has been a long time since we were able to get some tripartite agreements in place?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134910	Yes, and I think it is very nice that a tripartite agreement has been reached in the Left on exactly what is at stake here, namely that we reward the employers who take apprentices and, in return, ask those who do not assume their responsibilities to pay something more. I could have just wished that the Left had also meant the same thing back in 2011-2012, because then we could have done it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134931	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134932	It is always good to be inspired by each other, and I must say that I think we have done the same in this area. I clearly recognise that back in the days of Mrs Christine Antorini, too, some of the focus was on. But this requires all the parties, including the social partners, to be prepared to take action in this area. And that is actually what I would just like the Radical Left rapporteur to recognise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134957	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502134958	I would very much like to acknowledge that. And then I would like to promise the rapporteur of the Left that the Radical Left and probably also the Social Democratic Party would like to continue to inspire the Left, so you can always think the same as us when these 4-5 years have passed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135010	Thank you. From wishes are allowed! Then we've reached the SF, and that's Mr. Knox. Karsten Hønge, on his way to the platform. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135022	Better late than never, you might say. For years, among other things. SF argued to turn on the taps so that employers could pay more to the solidarity arrangement organized through the AUB. I heard the rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party almost make it a special social democratic matter. However, as I am informed, there are several parties who have argued over the years that we should screw both cocks, so that more money came into the previous scheme and then in the current AUB, and that a larger drain was then given to those companies which then actually undertake the task. At the same time, however, it is good that we have strong partners in the labour market so that solid agreements can be reached, including with the political system. Once again, we must be pleased that the real trade unions are strong and that they are taking on the work of both keeping their hands under the organised labour market and thus under the welfare society. The future is skilled, as it sounds. But it has often been very bad in comparison with the uncertainty about being able to finish your education. Of course, young people must be sure that they will be able to complete vocational training as well, and that will only happen if there are internships available. It shouldn't be like finding a needle in a haystack or depending on pure coincidences, whether you have family connections or whether the neighbor knows the local master craftsman. It should not be a private matter whether you can complete your vocational training. Over the years, too many young people have had the dream of vocational training destroyed by knocking in vain on rows of closed doors for businesses. Is the deal okay? SF doubt that. When we see that today we have at least 12 000 young people looking for an internship, and here you have an agreement where you want to get a maximum of 10,000 and perhaps only 8 000 seats, you can see that it does not harmonize completely. There is no doubt that the agreement is a good step in the right direction, but at the same time there is a need for other and more initiatives in order for vocational training to offer adequate training places. There are so many strengths in our principle of alternance training in vocational training that it has been extremely worrying for years to see that one part of alternance training has not been able to live up to enough practical time for young people. There is no doubt that if you are not able to solve the fundamental challenge, that there should be internships available to young people, then it does not make sense to talk about alternance training. In this way, a discussion will be opened on whether schools should take over either the whole or even greater parts of professional education, and with this there will certainly be a lot of other values lost in our professional education. This bill will give vocational training a second chance if the result is to meet the objectives set. And then there are also a number of other details in that I think we can have some greater expectations of, and that is to combine two good forms of school, namely that vocational education can now to some extent be integrated into the post-schools. These are two good school systems, two great deals, and when you combine them, it can only go well. SF recommends the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135428	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs Birgitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135437	Thank you. From the conservative side we can support the government's objective that we come up with 30 per cent. of young people in 2025 opt for vocational training. Today, it is only between 18% and 18%. and 19 per cent opting for vocational training. As another rapporteur also mentioned, the calculations from the Danish Employers' Association show that the companies risk missing about 60,000 skilled workers in 2025. If more young people are to want to choose and carry out appropriate vocational training, it is important that young people are given greater security in order to obtain an internship. There is no point in young people not being able to get an internship in a company. Then it will not be attractive enough for them to choose a vocational training course. In autumn's trialogue negotiations, we had a strong agreement, and that is the agreement that we are now implementing with this bill. The aim of the agreement is to create at least 8 000 to 10.000 more internships per year than today. Companies, both private and public, will be required to take a certain amount of trainees. An employer's contribution to the employer's training contribution shall be provided on an internship-dependent basis. Companies which contribute to the training of skilled workers are rewarded, while firms which do not contribute sufficiently are given greater responsibility for the overall financing of employers' training contributions. With the tripartite agreement, employers undertake to create 8 000 to 10.000 additional internships to make it more attractive for young people to take vocational training. The ambition that more young people will have to choose vocational training will be matched by 30 per cent. of young people opting for vocational training in 2025. Conservatives can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135651	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached the Minister of Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135700	Thank you for receiving the bill we are debating today. It is important that we have strong vocational training in Denmark and vocational training which young people want and have the courage to seek. We must challenge young people in their choice of education, and we must also bring their parents with us. High school is not the only choice, but is often the safe and traditional choice for many. But for many young people, vocational training will be the choice that gives them the best conditions and opportunities for education and jobs. In autumn's trialogue negotiations, we had a strong agreement, and that is the agreement that we are now implementing with this bill. Let me briefly outline what we are doing and why. A key element of the draft law is the common objective that employers will in future create 8,000 to 10.000 more internships annually than they do today. The additional internships must be realised through strengthened financial incentives, dimensioning, training and internship placement work in relation to the creation of internships. There is a particular focus on the extra internships being created at programmes where students have the opportunity for jobs and employment in the future. This gives students in vocational training an even better opportunity to carry out the internship of a company. I admit that the way we do it may seem complicated, but we believe it will work. I would like to say that business as such is not being charged an extra bill with the bill. The Government and the social partners agree that there should be a redistribution between enterprises for the benefit of companies which take responsibility for creating a sufficient number of work placements. The individual companies have the freedom to decide for themselves whether they want the financial benefit of creating more internships. Finally, I would like to say that we are doing this for the sake of young people, for the future of young people. There is no point in us sighing for more skilled people in the future if we do not at the same time put action behind words and create solutions to the challenges that exist. Thank you for the comments and discussions we have had in this Chamber today. I look forward to any questions that may be raised during the committee procedure. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135908	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for short remarks, and no one else has asked for the floor, and the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135931	The debate is open and the first speaker is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democrat.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502135951	The bill translates the agreement on a better governance framework at the universities, which has been concluded between the government, the Social Democratic Party and the Danish People's Party. For social democracy, it is crucial that we have good universities that guarantee high-quality education and research. This is crucial for the continued work for growth and prosperity. At the same time, university freedom of research is an unshakable cornerstone of an enlightened society. The Social Democratic Party stands by this, and it is, moreover, still incontrovertible. If we look at the last 10-15 years, there is no doubt that the social significance of universities has increased significantly. With these developments, too, increasing social responsibility, and on admission alone, which has increased sixfold over a 10-year period, we can see that universities have become more of a central social institution, and that is fundamentally very positive. Because that means that more young people want to take a higher or medium-term education, and we are very pleased about that. At the same time, developments provide an opportunity to consider how to ensure the best possible management framework. It is essential that universities can act as politically independent institutions on the basis of the arm's length principle, while the framework for universities reflects their social importance. However, there is potential to strengthen them even more, and therefore it is also very positive to note that the agreement that we are now implementing strengthens the framework for university management in a balanced way both in terms of political arm's length and in terms of the social significance of universities. It can also be concluded that the final agreement ensures a greater degree of political arm's length than was originally envisaged. The Social Democratic Party is very pleased with this. At the same time, we must also sign for the Minister's attitude to secure a broad agreement that has ended up in the agreement on a better governance framework. It means, of course, that the development contracts we know today are transformed into strategic framework contracts. In this way, the distinction between self-chosen objectives has been abolished and instead the objectives of the framework contracts will be set out in dialogue between the institutions and the Ministry. It is also proposed that the time horizon for the objectives be extended beyond the present. The change in development contracts has been well received in the sector. And the Social Democratic Party is also pleased with the introduction of strategic framework contracts. It is a very wise and appropriate decision to ensure that governance reflects the social significance of universities. At the same time, a more permanent dialogue between universities and the Ministry is being established, which we are very aware of has been very much in demand, especially from the sector. Together with the strategic framework contracts, it has very promising potential in general, because the need for retail management is reduced. I believe that most people in this Chamber are fully aware of, and have noted, that the part of the agreement I am addressing, which relates to the appointment of the chairman of the board, has been the subject of a very committed debate between the parties concerned. There may be no doubt about this. However, as I mentioned at the outset, the Social Democratic Party is satisfied that we have ended up with an agreement that ensures the right balance between political arm's length and management framework that reflects the great social significance of universities. And I think that characterism also applies to the appointment of the chairman of the board. The agreed model introduces ministerial approval of the chairman of the board, but that is only after the appointment of the appointment body. At the same time, the appointment body is independent in the sense that the members are appointed by the university and the chairman is appointed by the centre of the committee, as well as a member from the sitting board who ensures continuity and knowledge sharing. In this way, the history continues. In relation to the original model, it is also positive that there is a representative in the designation body for both students and employees. So all in all, there is reason to be satisfied with the model that has now landed. A sufficient corporate income tax is ensured, while the model reflects the social significance of universities. This ensures that we have a management framework to ensure that universities can still be supported and strong, competitive and sustainable, and that their core task, which is free and critical thinking and research, remains unfettered. Research must and must never be a political tool for any government. As I said, the draft law implements the agreement on a better governance framework at universities. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can of course support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140509	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140515	Thank you. I am perhaps a little surprised by the socialist line on this issue, when it is the case that the rapporteur and the Social Democrats obviously now support breaking with the arm's length principle and in favour of the Minister being able to go in and refuse to approve proposals to board presidents. In its essence, as I see it, however, the rapporteur must respond to this fact, which actually means that there will be a politicisation and a breach of the political independence of the university boards, and I think that is very problematic. What is the rapporteur's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140604	The draft law does not alter the independence of universities, it is beyond doubt. When we entered into the dialogue with the Minister on the implementation of this agreement, we stressed that it was, of course, important that we should continue to have exactly the university's freedom of research and that the arm's length principle should continue to be observed. Our universities today have a very high degree of autonomy and are politically independent, and they must be. That is also what I stressed in particular at the end of my rapporteur's speech. The approval of the Minister implies a review of whether the candidate for the Chairman of the Board, who is nominated by an independent appointment body, meets the requirements of competence which are now also legally recognized to a much more precise extent than has been the case so far in the legislative proposal itself.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140700	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140700-2	Joh, but at the same time, in this proposal it is also the case that the chairman of the board will have a stronger and more significant role in relation to what is today, that is to say, both in relation to the professional and strategic development of the institution concerned. So the chairman of the board will have a much stronger meaning. At the same time, when it is the case that the chairman of the board has to be approved by the Minister and that strategic agreements have to be made with the Minister on top of that, a very, very strong political steering tool is being put in place.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140741	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140742	So I do not agree with the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten that strong support is being given to governance in this context. On the contrary, we are meeting a long-awaited demand, perhaps I would call it, or at least a wish from the sector, even to have individualised framework contracts, which have now been renamed it is correct. However, this is also possible in dialogue with the Minister, who will be home to the law, and who may not have been able to adapt it individually at such a high frequency as has hitherto been desired by the sector. I think this is highly appropriate in the light of the needs of each institution. As to whether or not directors are strengthened, it would be strange to say that this bill does not involve any changes, because of course it does. However, this brings about changes in the sense that we are moving towards ensuring that the more we ensure that the board members, including the chairman of the board, comply with the necessary competences.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140844	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140848	Thank you. After all, the Minister can in principle choose to drop a candidate for the post of Chairman of the Board of Directors, if the Minister considers it. In her rapporteur's speech, the rapporteur says that she is satisfied with the agreement because it ensures sufficient arm's length. What does that mean? Is it in the rapporteur's optics that we have a minister who can, in principle, go out and roll over a candidate for the post of chairman of the board of the stick, if the Minister so wishes? And it's a chairman of the board who, I believe, has been appointed by appointing body.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140932	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502140933	I think that the way in which the questioner from the Alternative wants to address this particular issue is a little interesting, because the answer is almost in the question, namely that it is an independent appointment body, where there is no ministerial involvement or involvement whatsoever, which nominates a candidate for the Minister for final approval. It is true, then, that the Minister will be able to say in principle now, but one might be tempted to say in theory that the candidate who is now being nominated will turn his thumb down. You just have to say that it's back to square one more time. After all, Denmark is a very small country, including the circle in which these people, who should have the right skills, should be found. So there may also be a limit to how much can be politically achieved as a minister if you persistently turn your thumb down. So I am not worried about what the questioner wants to problematize.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141038	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141040	I am glad that the rapporteur thinks so. One might then ask oneself why it is even necessary to include that provision in the legislation if there is no concern that it should be put into use. That would certainly be my argument. I just have a very specific question at the end: does the rapporteur think that, in relation to this, the independence of the chairman of the board and the transfer pricing between the Ministry and the chairman of the board in Denmark's universities, this is an improvement on current practice and legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141111	Perhaps we need to look at the background to the proposal itself in order to answer that question. I would just like to say here that the current governance framework does not adequately reflect the great social importance of universities, which they have now developed to have. It is the case that we have a very, very large take-up, which is very positive, and we also have universities and educational institutions that need to be strengthened. Social democracy is one hundred percent behind this. This requires strong management, and it also requires that we optimise on all fronts, so that students can also get academic education offers in the future at a high level of research and so that we can maintain the position that we have today. This also means that we need to have a strong chairman of the board and, like that, we need to ensure that we do not go into detail in the future in the way that may have been done to date with the universities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141213	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, and the next is Mr. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141229	Thank you. After all, this bill is about adjusting the framework for university management. Why change that now? Back in the early 00s, when the university law was amended and boards with influence from the business community were introduced, the Danish People's Party opposed it. We had a fear that business would run universities and that it would harm free research. That fear has been put to shame. I would like to say in more detail that the university boards may have barely taken up the role they should have taken. The Danish People's Party has a vision that there should be more freedom at universities • freedom to manage and organise how to create the best possible results for the benefit of society with the resources available. I believe that the experience of recent years shows that this is a necessary path. When we carried out the so-called momentum reform a few years ago at Christiansborg, it was in the good intention to push the culture of universities where the implementation time had become very long. Our opportunity was with general rules to ensure a change, although the culture we want to change was far from being present everywhere. So what's in it for us? We have had the desired effect with shorter implementation times. But we also have stories that management is pushing teachers to let students pass a little easier than they might have to, so that the figures look right. We have made it harder to mix research and studies where otherwise it would make really good sense in terms of learning. The progress reform is a very good example of central legislation which was necessary, but certainly not appropriate. But it was necessary because the managements and boards did not themselves undertake to solve the task. That is why I am pleased with the legislation we are discussing today. I hope that this will help us to create a better basis for assuming responsibility so that we do not have to make new progress reforms. There is a need for a framework to be observed; there is a need for a direction; and there is a need for a direction. From here we must set the direction, for example. by saying that quality is more important than quantity, that there must be closer cooperation across educational institutions on the development of education, and that, in general, social considerations must be ensured rather than a narrow focus on the individual educational institution. The unfolding of this framework means that we will have better opportunities with the new legislation. The draft law specifies the responsibility, not least the social responsibility, for the Board of Directors. The current development contracts are replaced by more binding strategic framework contracts, as they are called. These are contracts which must be individual for each institution, so that the development needs that are specifically needed can be addressed. And even if they are individual, they must, of course, ensure a development that supports the overall framework, but on the basis of what is needed at each institution. One simple example is the progress reform, in which a general reduction in study time for all courses can be replaced by targeted objectives in relation to those institutions and courses where there is a long period of implementation. The resources can then be used for more relevant objectives in those areas where they already deliver to standarded time. At the same time, I welcome the fact that more systematic and continuous follow-up is being proposed to the framework contracts with the Ministry, so that the board and senior management team are kept up with responsibility and agreements. This means that, of course, it can also have consequences if framework contracts are not respected. In exchange for this overall governance, there must be a great freedom for the board and management to choose the methods of fulfilling the contracts. With those words, I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141554	Thank you. There is one brief comment. Sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141559	The rapporteur started by saying that freedom of research was important, and I would like the rapporteur to try to clarify for me and for others, where in this draft law there is a guarantee, a strengthening of the freedom of research when it is the case that we go in and do political governance both in relation to the boards of directors and also indirectly in relation to universities? Where is freedom of research strengthened in this proposal?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141635	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141637	I disagree with the rapporteur's premise, because this agreement does not really concern research and freedom of research at all. It's just as free as it's always been. This sets a general framework and a direction that can be worked on, and in my view it actually allows for greater freedom for universities to manage how they act and how they deal with the challenges that we have in society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141706	There was a brief comment again. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141711	In other words, the rapporteur is of the opinion that the contracts to be made are not in any way concerned with the research to be carried out on training. What are the strategic contracts to be about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141728	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141730	It has to be about, for example, when we are now. At some point we have made progress reform that we do so because we do not take our responsibilities seriously at a university and say that we have to deal with that issue. Such an issue you could take up in a contract and say that this has to be worked on, and then we don't need to make detailed rules in here that govern in detail what is happening out there in a completely different way than this one will do. That is why, as I said before, I believe that this gives us greater freedom to act in relation to the current system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141803	We thank the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502141810	Thank you for the floor. As universities mean more and more in our society, the way we run universities also means more and more. As several of my colleagues have mentioned, the university law, which defines the framework from the middle of the last decade, has developed incredibly much since then. That is why I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the Danish Parliament supporting a new framework legislation that ensures strategic objectives, which means that the boards will have a larger mandate, which sets out a good procedure for the nomination and appointment of candidates, responsible boards, and also sets a set of fixed objectives for how to communicate, manage the framework and, moreover, define the social and responsible work. The aim of this bill has not been to invent the deep plate. In many areas, the management of Danish universities works well, and we must stick to that. We have some very talented and very dedicated, professionally strong people who sit on the university boards, who are responsible for day-to-day management. We can be proud of them. When I mention that change is still needed, it is because universities are training some of the people who, together with the rest of the labour market, are going to bring Denmark forward, who are going to ensure that we make the best use of our social resources and with an allocation of just under 20 billion. kr. It is not just a grip on the pockets of society when it is involved in funding universities. It's good money to spend. I think we all agree on that. But it is important that we also get an understanding of how we manage the work of universities. And by government, I don't mean detailed regulation. I believe to set up a modern framework that clarifies expectations, sets objectives and ensures that there is a better and deeper dialogue with the Ministry, which may have been lacking until today. In this way, I believe that the draft law that we are debating today helps both to define and define the necessary framework that is needed. I understand, then, that several of my colleagues believe that it is an attack on both free research and the learned autonomy and other things that the chairman of the board must finally be approved by the minister after being nominated by a completely politically independent committee. If you have that position, I think you should join the ghost hunters on one of the channels of payment that you can get via Viasat because there is simply no hold on that kind of rhetoric. That is, of course, to say that in future, the Minister of Transport must not appoint the director of DSB or fire the director of Banedanmark when he furnitures 20 billion. kr. We have chosen a number of politicians from in here. They are elected by people, and people have chosen them to represent their voice and thus given them a mandate to give priority within the framework of democracy. The country's business academies and professional colleges have a management framework that is not very similar to this one, and so there is also a dialogue with the ministry, and you have a dialogue, in relation to how the management operates. Instead of really finding the political microscope in an attempt to find something to be unhappy with, I think that Enhedslisten and other good forces should be pleased that we have reached a place where we define, by a broad majority, a framework that for many years to come skillfully and effectively lays the foundations for how universities are developing. I think we'll all be happy about that. I certainly hope so. With those words, I am not surprised to say that we are enthusiastic about the draft law and look forward to the forthcoming negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502142157	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt Yes, it is so little disappointing, I would say). Yes, but the rapporteur must live with that. The next is Mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502142212	Thank you. Better management framework, yes. Map: The Enhedslisten cannot support this bill. The main reason for this is that there is a strong breach of the arm's length principle when the Minister is given the power to approve the Chairman of the Board and thus also to reject the candidate for the post of Chairman of the Board of Directors. This means, in essence, a politicisation and a breach of political independence on the university boards, and hence also on the freedom of research and professional autonomy. We believe that this appointment should be made by the board of directors. In several parts of the bill, the maximum benefit is referred to by the universities of society. If the wish is that there should be a stronger social footprint on the boards that govern our higher education, it can be done in other ways. I would note that the Danish Magisters Association has prepared a proposal which they have also sent to the Minister, and we should start with Enhedslisten. They have solved the issue of the social footprint in a different and, in our view, better way. Current development contracts are replaced by strategic framework contracts. We are pleased that it is emphasised that there is a clear diversity in relation to individual universities, so that it does not just become a template dictated by a ministry. However, it is clear that at this stage we do not know what the concrete form will be. We would also like to ask the Minister to stress that it is possible if the Minister wishes to do so here today, otherwise we have to write that other things are included in the framework contracts, for example. the question of social mobility, that is to say that it comes as part of the strategic framework contracts. But basically, the issue of the chairman of the board is crucial. If it is the case that it is changed so that the Minister does not have the power that lies in the proposal, we will be different, but if it does not, we will vote against the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502142439	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502142448	Thank you for that, President. Bill L 203 lays down that the university law will be amended on two essential points. Firstly, it becomes clearer what responsibility a university board has, and secondly, the new framework contracts will create better conditions for finding the balance between the governance that comes from above to be exact is this from Slotsholmen and then the governance that the local management at each university stands for. What is being established with L 203 is that universities are social institutions, and I am very pleased about that. It can be added that in most Western European countries universities are some of the oldest social institutions at all and still operate away, and they have the task of housing and developing the free and critical idea. This is an approach to universities, which we welcome more than welcome in the Liberal Alliance. That is why we are also pleased that the bill now clarifies that the board should be composed in a way that among the external board members there are people who have insight into research and research-based teaching. It is also a clarification that we have so far lacked. The framework contracts now make it possible to deal with each university on its own terms and they can each have a set of critical tasks to look at and there will be a continuous follow-up to progress in achieving the objectives. It is very positive that you do not use a model where a size fits everyone. To give an example: What is good for DTU is not necessarily good for RUC and vice versa. The aim of the framework contracts is to replace governance in a wide range of areas by management. It is a very good objective to set out, and as long as I am rapporteur for research and education, I will certainly keep an eye on the fact that this is an objective that we are constantly coming closer and closer to. Then, in the course of the debate on the legislative proposal, some have objected that government governance is becoming too powerful. I think that is a powerful exaggeration, to say the diplomatic aspect. It is not unreasonable for the minister in office to be able to veto a completely inedible candidate for the President at any time, and it should be noted that there is no question of the current rules on sanctions against members of the board being changed or of the Minister who has a veto being able to come forward with his own candidate. I would also like to point out that the comments made during the debate on the draft law and the understanding of the freedom of research seem to me to be completely out of place. What is the foundation of freedom of research is not at all affected in the draft law here, because what guarantees free research is the peer review system, and L 203 has absolutely nothing to do with the peer review system, it is in the peer review system, the quality control of research lies, it is the examination of method that takes place there, it is the examination of theories that takes place there. I should also like to point out that we have just revised the law on scientific innocence, so there are also guarantees that freedom of research cannot be undermined. So as long as the peer review system is not rocked, I would say that it is quite, quite out of place to talk about the fact that a modified approach to appointing boards should have any influence whatsoever on what is really understood by freedom of research. That is why the Liberal Alliance strongly supports the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502142946	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's Mrs. Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502142959	Thank you. Let me start by picking up the thread where mr. Henrik Dahl left it. In fact, I do not know exactly who has put forward these arguments that this proposal for a directive would hinder the freedom of research, because there I am in complete agreement with Mr McMillan-Scott. Henrik Dahl. There's nothing in this bill that prevents free research. At least it's just to make it clear from the point of view of the alternative. We do not think so. But that is unreasonable, I would say to Mr. Henrik Dahl, to the Minister, to the Social Democrat rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann, that the Minister should approve the chairman of the board. However tiny a detail it is and however inconceivable it is that one ever comes into the situation where it may prove necessary, it is a breach of the arm's length principle. So it's unfair. And it is a breach of the principles that we have had in relation to the Danish universities having an arm's length income tax for the political regime. It's a tiny detail. There are three words in Section 12 paragraph. 4. These are three words: for the approval of the Minister. It states: As regards the chairman of the board, the appointment body shall appoint a candidate for the Minister's approval. Now that we have had this debate today about how likely it is to be used at all, how likely is it that a minister will sweep a candidate off the table, who will be nominated by the appointment body, which is part of this bill? It's not very likely why on earth is it so necessary that these three words should be included in this bill? I simply do not understand that. And you would have welcomed a lot of us who cannot now vote in favour because of the tiny detail. We would have welcomed the players in the university environment if we had had confidence that the three words of this bill were not necessary. So for that reason, and I am really sorry to say, the alternative cannot support it either. We have no problem with the future appointment of the chairman of the university board by appointing body. We can see a lot of reasoning in this bill in relation to why a new organisation is needed, with a new model for the appointment of the chairman of the board. We fully agree with many of the underlying principles and principles. The only thing is that we simply cannot look ourselves in the eye if we, as a political party, have to go in and say yes to our minister having to approve the chairman of the board elected by appointing body for the country's universities. So that's really too bad. For the same reason, as I said, we shall vote no. We are proposing an amendment. It almost goes without saying. Then we'll see how far we get with it. And then, in relation to the whole debate on contracts, I would like to say that we warmly support the move to framework contracts rather than development contracts. So it's a very tiny thing in this bill that makes us unable to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502143259	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502143309	Thank you. I can then take up the thread of the former rapporteur from the Alternative by saying that the tiny thing, as the Alternative's rapporteur pointed out, is the essence of this draft law, because that is what is practical and that is why a law is to be made. We are also sceptical about this. I think it is actually quite clear that we have a lot of right and good words in the draft law that will have independent universities in Denmark, and that the institutions that provide the knowledge and research which is the basis or at least the basis for informed decisions must never be able to be accused of being politically governed. As rapporteur for the alternative, I agree that that is what this is all about. This is not about the content of the research or peer review. It is about the fact that the knowledge that we use to make decisions must never be able to be accused of having been politically governed. That is why we are opposed to the Minister's approval of university directors. We certainly support the fact that universities and other educational institutions contribute even more to this, and this is a wonderful turn that has been used here to inform and underpin public debate and policy development. It is clear that this is what we need it for. However, the university's task and, moreover, the task of many other educational institutions is also to be able to correct us politicians and their researchers, ensuring that we, as politicians, companies and all sorts of others, cannot claim that something is true because it is political, economic or otherwise opportune if there is basic knowledge that points in a different direction. They must always be free to point that out. In fact, our researchers and universities guarantee that there is knowledge that can argue against when it is needed, even when it is really annoying. It must be free and independent. I also think that the acid test on good policy must be what kind of social problem a bill solves. And I find it hard to see what kind of problem this bill solves. I can easily see a direction in some of what the draft law does not, if I may say so, legislate on, but which it indicates, namely what direction we would like to take with framework contracts. That's very good, and I support that too. But exactly what is being legislated on here is the appointment of the Minister, and that is where I find it difficult to see what the problem it solves is. It is not because I believe that the Minister's proposal, and certainly not the Minister's intention, is that universities should start to change course in line with political matters. Nor do I believe that this means that government politicians or others will use universities to promote their own agendas. Fortunately, I think we have a completely different debate. But once you have legislated on something, you are helping to cast doubt on independence. That is what we are opposed to in the Radical Left. We think it should be the board that is independent and who hires the principal. After all, the rector has an enormous influence on university priorities and daily life, and we are afraid that one has just symbolically and not really, and at least not now, legislatively, opened a corridor from the ministerial office into the university's heart. And although I can hear that fortunately the universities are taking it slow, one way or another the door has been opened. We cannot back that up. We would have liked it to be said no to political appointment and approval, but on the other hand we support abolishing the self-supported boards. It has always been a bit strange and introduce a model of representation instead, and then we continue to work on binding framework contracts, because that is where, as a politician and an educational institution, we have a hand on the hob, because of course we need it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502143834	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henrik Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502143839	Thank you. I would ask the rapporteur to explain to me how, in concrete terms, draft law L 203 could corrupt the peer review mechanism. For as long as the peer review mechanism works properly, it is impossible to tamper with research.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502143908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502143910	I don't think I indicated in any way that the bill could come to that either. What is worrying is that when there is a ministerial approval, there is in the direction indicated in the signal being sent a door opened not into peer review and the actual performance of the research itself, but there is a lot going on before then. There is a lot going on before the research is carried out. How will this be perceived? Can there be signals that you have to take down before you even start your research? That is because a direction has been opened from politics to governance. That is what this is all about, and that is why universities in the rest of the world, to which we are looking, are moving in a different direction.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144007	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144010	I simply do not understand the answer, so I have to ask the question in a slightly reworded version in the hope of getting a slightly better answer. Peer review is anonymous. Researchers anonymously send their articles to people from other universities who decide on the quality of research. How is it possible that free research can be compromised when sending an anonymous article to a university in another country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144040	I have not talked about the compromise of free research when it has been carried out. I've been talking about opening a door from politics into college. After all, this is about the appointment of the chairman of the board. It's about the university's leadership. The board appoints the rector and sets the direction of the university. There is, of course, plenty of political... if the rapporteur will listen to my answer, it will be very helpful, otherwise it will not really be worth answering.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144112	Time's up, too. The next thing for a brief comment is Mr. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144118	I'm a little sad when I listen to the arguments that this was supposed to be a disaster. I would like to commend the fact that the Radical Left has really made an effort to find something to be critical of there I really think people have managed to bring the ball completely out of line and score a goal; if it is a political self-target, then we must look afterwards. Hørup once said that there is nothing above and beside the Folketing, and with the way Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen speaks in relation to this political door that opens up, she makes it sound a bit like we're back at Dante's Inferno, and that on our way down through nine layers of suffering, where it politically infects the university and suddenly brings everything into decay. Well, it's the people's representatives who are in here. The chairman of the board must be approved, yes, by a body made up of people in whom no one has interfered in other than those at the university. Could it be that Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen had come to exaggerate a tiny bit and that perhaps the concern is just an expression of finding something to complain about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144223	I only hear the questioner exaggerate but it's very entertaining.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144229	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144232	Well, I guess I got an answer to that. So that means that Sofie Carsten Nielsen is not confident that the politicians elected by the people are also able to carry out the task for which the people have appointed them. Sofie Carsten Nielsen does not trust that the Minister of Transport can hire and fire the Director and President of Banedanmark, Post Danmark, DSB, other public companies. We are not confident that the Minister of Industry can do the same, because that is where politics and business or politics and social relations or politics and infrastructure are mixed up. It is such an argument that may sound reasonable, but it has been sought and in some way, I think, a lack of respect for democracy, which is actually a little indefensible.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144315	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144317	See, now it's gonna be interesting, 'cause now Mr. Simpson's opening. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt for that universities are businesses we run, just like we run DSB. That is the comparison used by the author himself. And I think that is something quite different, because knowledge institutions in Denmark should be able to do something completely, quite different from a company. There's a very big difference. And I have never exaggerated with Dante-like comparisons, although it was really interesting. This is a good legislative proposal in many ways, and I said very clearly that I do not think the Minister has any intention whatsoever of starting to change course in line with politics. So it's the signal that's being sent with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144404	We thank Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144413	It's a little too bad, sir. In his speech, Jakob Engel-Schmide-Schmidt did not mention the comparison between DSB and the educational institutions, for then it might be that I had ventured to ask a question anyway, because I now believe that there is quite a difference between our free educational institutions, which carry out research and make us all smarter, and then DSB, which runs trains. But yes, that is how you can have a different view of universities. My speech will start by saying that the legislative proposal aims to create a better framework for management universities, which is what we are discussing, and if we look at the bill and read it through, I think we can actually see that it has been successful far along the way. I really think some good steps are being taken with this bill, which I would like to spend some time reviewing, because I also think there is something bad in it, but I think that the good should be mentioned first. The first is that I think it is very good that in future we should ensure that university funds are managed for the greatest possible benefit to society as a whole and not just to universities. I think this is a very, very sensible way of using public funds. The next thing is that I believe that these strategic framework contracts are taking a very good step, both politically and also for educational institutions. I note that at least, as described in some of the consultations, it seems as if we have been a little tired of changing ministers having just been able to put their personal hobby into the objectives of the framework contracts, and it has been difficult to say exactly what to do about it, because it may have changed shortly after a new minister has arrived. With these more strategic framework contracts, it will be possible, together with the educational institutions, to say exactly what efforts have to be made in each place. I think that is very good management, and I think that makes a great deal of sense. We shall now deal with my motion for a resolution on the need to introduce a national survey of the well-being of students, because if we discover in such a survey that there are some educational institutions where there is a great deal of dissatisfaction, then we could, for example, do so. use a strategic framework contract to say in one place that real action must be taken against this misfortune. So I actually think these strategic framework contracts are a very good tool, and I think that they can be further developed and used more actively in the future. You may also be able to use them in circumstances such as: is about students' unemployment, so that they can try to fight it together with the educational institutions. I also think it makes sense to have written into the proposal that the Minister should meet the chairmen of the boards twice a year, because it is very important that, when you have such strategic framework contracts, there is not just an orientation of universities on what they should think and do, but that there is actually a dialogue. So basically, there are quite a lot of good elements in this bill. However, if I am against the proposal, it is for the same reason that several other rapporteurs have mentioned. So, I disagree with what is at stake is the approval of the board of directors of the university boards, and I recognise that progress has been made in relation to where we started with this bill. In fact, it started back at the KUA when Mrs Mette Reissmann, Mr. Henrik Dahl and the undersigned agreed in a debate to stand together against interfering with political governance and identifying the presidents of the boards. We have also written out openly that we had a vertical disagreement because we thought it was a breach of the arm's length principle. I don't think this is the same thing either. In fact, I think we have moved a step further, and I would like to acknowledge that efforts have been made to land in a better place. But my assessment is that basically it is a step in the wrong direction when such a process of approval is introduced. Sir. Henrik Dahl specifically asked what is so wrong with it. Well, first of all, I think it sends a political signal that you have a desire to interfere with who should be chairman of the board out there, and I just have to say that I have no wish to do so. I do not think that is the task of the political layer. Nor do I believe that it is possible to make sure that the process is completely independent, even though it is a process of approval, because the appointment committee will always think: well, will this candidate be approved? The fact is that as such a committee you sit blindfolded and think: well, now we're setting this person, knowing that it's probably not going through. So I've heard a lot of concern about that out there. The third thing I have heard concerns about, and which I myself think is worth considering, is that some of the universities are simply afraid that they are losing good candidates because of this, because good candidates, who are perhaps large names in public, will simply not take the risk of interfering in a process in which they may risk being rejected at the end. Actually, I think that's worth taking too. So we are going to table an amendment to have it here with the Minister approving it, pulled out, and if we get rid of it, we will vote in favour of the proposal, but if we do not get rid of it, we will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144919	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502144927	Thank you. The aim of the bill here is to ensure a better framework for university management. The managements of the universities must have the right framework conditions for their work. In 2016, a review of the governance framework was carried out. The survey showed that there was some improvement potential included in the bill here. It is about the role of the boards, the scope for action, the composition and competences, including the functions of the chairman, the application of development contracts and the dialogue between the institutions and the Ministry of Education and Research. This improvement potential is sought with Bill No. L 203. The draft law proposes new procedures for the appointment of the Chair and the other external members of the Management Board, which will contribute to greater openness and transparency in the process of designation and reflect the major societal importance and responsibilities of universities. It is proposed that development contracts be replaced by strategic framework contracts with a view to targeting the form and use of contracts. At the same time, dialogue between the boards and the Minister for Education and Research will be strengthened. The major social role of universities is central. It is very important for Denmark's development and growth that we have a high level of education and that our research is of high quality. Universities have a great responsibility for the maximum value of the funds we invest in education and research. The Conservative People's Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145115	Thank you to the rapporteur, there are no brief comments. Then we have finished the rapporteur's series and I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145126	How do you run a university? How is it legitimised against those who pay? How do you appoint people at the university? Is this the trend we saw in the late 1960s that it is the employees who should have a very violent influence on it? Is it the politicians who should have an influence on this? Is it in a balance within the institution itself? How is it to be associated with the surrounding community at least if you acknowledge what I am saying, namely that no university is an island? These are the issues we are discussing here. I do not think that is quite the way this has been done in the debate, but I can deduce that there is agreement that universities are central institutions of society. High levels of education and high-quality research are of great importance to a society such as ours in terms of creating development and in terms of creating growth. The universities therefore have a great responsibility to ensure that the substantial funds devoted to this society, which are invested in research and education, are translated into the greatest possible benefit. During the last 10-15 years to the fairly tonality of the same discussion as the one we are experiencing today, universities have undergone a significant development where they have been established as self-owned institutions with boards and staff managers. It is a good time to carry out an evaluation. If, at 10-15 years apart, the political system would meet itself, or rather more frequently, to see whether the decisions that were taken at one time needed to be reviewed or, if need be, completely changed, then part of the debates that, among other things, would be held. marked the 1st of May, probably not having been there. The overhaul that has been carried out has shown that the overall framework is functioning in many ways. However, there is also potential for improvement, and this is, of course, the aim of the draft law, namely to create a better governance framework, to strengthen management and legitimise management, so that they have the competences, abilities and legitimacy to take the decisions that need to be taken in such important institutions. So in the bill we clarify the tasks and responsibilities of the boards. We adapt the framework for the appointment of the board of directors and the other external board members, and we also adjust the competence requirements as Mr. Henrik Dahl mentioned the appointment of the external board members. We propose that current development contracts be replaced by strategic framework contracts, and those framework contracts should be institution-specific. And the strategic objectives will be formulated... that may be a comment to Mr. Bruno Jerup in dialogue between the university and the Ministry and based on the situation and challenge of each university. It is also very consciously intended to strengthen the ongoing strategic dialogue with university boards. We do this by meeting the Minister and Chairman of the Board at least twice a year. This is an important dialogue and, above all, it is also an expression of a desire to strengthen the role of the chairman of the board. Then there is, of course, what I cannot remember whether it was the radical rapporteur or the alternative rapporteur who said it was referred to as this tiny bite-bitting thing, namely that in my best view, in order to legitimise the use of so many funds on behalf of society and to legitimise the chairman of the board concerned and in fact his ability to penetrate, the Minister must approve the candidate. I do not think I understand that, if you consider it to be such a tiny thing, you are standing on your hind legs. I therefore agree with what the rapporteur of the Left suggested, namely that there was a time when a very large majority in the Danish Parliament had never fully belonged to it, because I have always thought that it was much more nuanced than that it could not stop saying that there is nothing above and nothing beside the Folketing; that democratic legitimacy in a society is indeed important; and that the discussion currently taking place is that everything but politics is really anti-democratic in its essence. I have always thought that the discussion was considerably more nuanced than that, but I do not think I fully understand the complete change: that the fact that the community has a connection line to something that we spend a large two-digit billions on ^ after it has been through all imaginable procedures at individual institutions should be as problematic as it is being done. In fact, on behalf of the people's regime, I am sorry because it supports a tonality in time that Parliament, the government, the executive, the legislative power does not have a real legitimacy, what I strongly feel it has.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145740	Thank you, Minister. There are a few brief comments, first of all it is Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145748	Thank you. Why, then, is it that it is the Minister who has to approve the chairman of the board, and not the government of the people?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145755	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145758	The Minister is certainly also part of the people's regime, and the only one with legitimacy in relation to the institutions is the Minister, who has been appointed to represent the interests of the people's regime. Secondly, if Parliament is to sit and vote on the competences of the executive, it is not a question of democracy. That is not democracy, because it is an intrusion into the balance that has been found, so that detailed management does not take place in the Parliamentary Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145831	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145833	It is a question of perspective, I would argue with. A minister will always represent a party and therefore also a special political ideology. Well, my next question is, doesn't the Minister trust that the appointment body will choose the best candidate?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145854	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145855	Firstly, it is not a coincidence that we are talking about the division of power. And I know there are different movements that have tried to push that power, and I'm worried about that. If you look at everything that came out of the French Revolution and the like, you see that there was a rather very different attitude to the division of power. Secondly, do I have confidence? I am not in favour of monopolies, nor am I in favour of monopolies where the commitment and resources of society are made available. And, by the way, why don't I? I do not do that because it weakens the management outside the institutions if you can reject the management with it is also just a matter of... We must have strong leadership in our institutions, and that is what we are getting, among other things. qua the approval procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145946	Then it's mr. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502145947	Thank you. And thank you for an excellent speech. I would really like to hear from such a little curiosity when the Minister imagines that such a process of approval could be used to say no. I am actually asking that because the Minister said that the approval process should be used to create legitimacy. Well, I can understand that argument. Then the minister also said that it could be used to ensure that the chairman of the board goes through that said the minister. It is, of course, very subjective when you think a chairman of the board can get through. And then I just got to sit around and wonder when the minister actually imagines you're gonna be able to use this to say no. What, as in the case of a minister, does it have to do before he says no to a president?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150031	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150032	I would not wish to go into the construction of examples of this, but I feel that if the Danish Parliament is unhappy with the administration of it by a minister, the Danish Parliament has a clear opportunity to act, namely to dismiss the minister in question. And that's kind of the sight we forgot a tiny bit here in the Folketing. After all, I am a member of the Things myself, and I believe that a great deal of the problems we see in the public debate and in relation to the public institutions are that the balance between the involvement of the Folketing in detail and the executive power leads to confusion, including for citizens, about who is doing what. So my simple answer to that is: it does so at the discretion of the Minister, and if it is wrong then the Minister can be fired by the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150119	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150120	Well, I think that is actually quite interesting, but it also means that it can be very different from minister to minister, whatever the estimate may be, and that there can therefore be very different requirements for who sits as minister • what it is for a chairman of the board one will allow. Well, that's what worries me a little. There are no clear guidelines, and it will then be up to the political level whether to approve or not, and I think that is a breach of the arm's length principle.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150149	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150149-2	It is actually funny because the mechanism that makes it possible to believe the appointment committee to think about what the minister will do is not trust the Minister in relation to the reaction of the Folketing. This is a very fine mask. Just outside this door, just outside the left, it says that only it becomes a minister who understands the language of the birds. I think it is a very brave minister or reckless minister who just plunges into the blue and refuses to approve a university president. And we should welcome this because it also shows that we have a solid foundation, among other things. Here in the Folketing. So I'm not at all worried about the estimate, as sir. Jacob Mark's asking.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150235	There are no more brief comments, so we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150300	The debate is open and I give the floor to the Minister for Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150314	Thank you for the floor. Today we are discussing and debating measurements of the well-being of students in higher education. The proposers want to impose on the government that by the end of this year it initiates a recurring national study on the well-being of students in higher education. The reason for the proposal is that there should be a lack of knowledge of the impact on students of the restructuring of the higher education system in recent years. Let it be said that I regard the intention behind the proposal as sympathetic. I believe that we are all concerned across parties with ensuring a good framework for students, although the approach in the nature of matters may vary. Study surveys are an excellent mapping tool to gain knowledge about how students experience their study life and, for example, how students experience their study life. their stress levels. However, when the government cannot support the proposal, this is due to the fact that the proposed tool already exists. Like other educational establishments, higher education institutions are legally obliged to have a written environmental assessment drawn up every three years at least. In addition to mapping, this also includes requirements for the preparation of an action plan and guidelines for follow-up. The studies measure the well-being of students based on the local study environments, and the follow-up is, in my opinion, still best anchored locally with the institutions' management and in interaction with study guides and students themselves. But, of course, as ministers and members of the Folketing, we need systematic knowledge about the impact of the measures that we jointly introduce. Trivsel-related questions about the academic and social study environment were also part of the national questionnaire survey 2016-2017 among active students and graduates under the auspices of the so-called Educational Zoom. The questions were formulated in cooperation with a reference group with representation from the institutions. Therefore, tribulation-related issues are already part of a central collection of knowledge. The proposal provides for further studies on top of existing ones, and I would like to warn against that. In the course of the reference group on Education Zoom, several institutions expressed a clear concern that more studies could lead to an evaluation fatigue, among other things. with reduced response rates, and I share that concern. And for those of us who are dealing with ParentsIntra, you can just think about it. Instead of introducing more studies, the government's proposals are therefore instead that any further welfare issues are included in the next questionnaire study under the auspices of the Educational Zoom, which is expected to be completed by 2018. And it is again with the prior involvement of the reference group. Today's debate also gives me the opportunity to stress that a student must, of course, be able to ask for help if the conditions of study for a period of time are difficult. Here Student counselling is a good opportunity with free social, psychological and psychiatric advice and treatment. But it is also part of the picture that self-employment is part of being a student. As a student, one must be professionally and mentally equipped for the labour market which should preferably follow immediately after study time. Adult people as students thus differ as target groups from pupils in primary and secondary education. So in other words, despite the sympathetic intentions taken together, the government cannot support the proposal, because the actions described already exist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150708	Thank you, Minister. There are no brief comments, so we go to the negotiations. First, Mrs Mette Reissmann. Social democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502150720	With the motion for a resolution, the authors of the motion will require the government to initiate a recurring national study of the well-being of higher education. Let me start by taking this opportunity to make it clear that it is good, indeed good, to have a view of well-being. We have this in many other areas, both in the education system and especially as a result of the many measures to ensure a good working environment. The Social Democratic Party believes that everyone should be well, regardless of whether they go to school, are in an educational establishment or whether they are in the workplace. At the same time, the motion for a resolution is based on a number of grounds in relation to the issue of well-being, which is the problem. First of all, there is a need to establish once again that higher education is the framework for independent studies by adults, and therefore the task of the educational institutions is first and last to provide good, relevant academic education and training based on social considerations. At the same time, it is not easy to study higher education, on the contrary. When I say this in this way, it should be understood positively, but it must be hard to study higher education. It's supposed to be academically challenging. You have to take responsibility for your own learning, and you have to go from being a student to being a student. And it may also seem challenging to the soul. I think we all know what it feels like in here. But we must also consider students in higher education institutions to be adults, because that is what they are. That is why I do not think it is fair to say that the motion for a resolution sets out the similarities between various surveys on, among other things. stress on the part of students and a number of political decisions and reforms, that is to say, that the demands and conditions that are now in place are opposed to higher education, so that the framework of higher education should in itself be conducive to distrust, as is evidently the feeling among students. That coherence is not fair to conclude. That's not the picture I can quite recognize. At the same time, it is, of course, basically reasonable and right that expectations should be placed on students. This has always been the case in our higher education. It's perfectly natural. That is why I think it is wrong to point out a direct and unambiguous link between our higher education and the challenges that some students face. Secondly, there is also reason to have confidence in the institutions and to have an eye for students to thrive in such a way that they can take good care of their studies. Everyone has an interest in that. At the same time, we must also bear in mind that education institutions must today comply with the Education Environment Act. In this way, institutions are obliged to provide a framework that requires a healthy study environment, including a mentally healthy study environment where students do not get stressed. In other words, today there is a legislative framework to ensure well-being within the framework of higher education. As I mentioned at the outset, I agree with the proposers that the issue of well-being is important, and I also recognise that, for every year, there are some students who, unfortunately, for various reasons, lift more than their backs can bear and therefore need a helping hand. That is why I believe that today's debate is a good opportunity to criticise the government's re-priority contribution. After all, the Minister himself mentioned student counselling. Yes, but the savings on the re-priority contribution do not only affect education and research. Also, good efforts are made just as student counselling and, incidentally, student guidance are subject to this saving. Student counselling helps students who in the course of the study suffer soul pain and need support. This is an important effort that is deteriorating with the government's re-prioritisation contribution, and we find this very regrettable, because student counselling really makes a difference for the students who turn to it. It is a criticism which I also feel sure the authors of the motion can endorse. Unfortunately, social democracy cannot support the premise of the motion for a resolution, which equates the higher education system with the well-being conditions described by the proposers. At the same time, we would like to point out that today there is a legislative framework that supports a well-being-oriented framework. So, against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151148	It gave rise to one brief comment. It's from sir. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151152	Thank you. I really believe that what I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur does not recognise that the reforms that have been made, which the SF was also involved in, some of them quickly out of the bonus, the drive-through reform, the new educational ceiling, are pushing young people and asking them to work faster or study faster and may have a negative impact on the well-being of students. Is that quite impossible in the rapporteur's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151229	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151230	I'm glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Jacob Mark mentioned in his question now that the SF itself has been involved in implementing over fifty percent of the reforms that form the framework of today's higher education institutions. Yes, I certainly recognize that there may be a causal relationship between feeling stressed. But just to return to the background to the motion for a resolution: I do not think that sufficient explanation has been given for us to clarify these various things. So it's obvious that you can feel stressed. Any student who may not have followed the course or prepared for his teaching with a relatively steady frequency over the year will, of course, when the question is asked if we now imagined that such a well-being study should be carried out • feel stressed up to an exam. And it is hard to go to the exam, and it may also feel stressful, on this point there is no doubt. But this is very much about planning, and it is also about priorities. And the Social Democratic Party fully supports the drive reform in the context that it now has and which it applies in an adjusted form today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151339	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151341	When I have a little focus on this, even though SF has been involved in some of these reforms and also think that some of the thoughts and ideas can be excellent, it's because I experience that the students are under pressure. I find that there are more people who go down with stress and take medication to perform better, and there are also measurements from the trade union movement that show that they are not well. It is even measured that it may be the fault of the reforms. So even though I've been in them, I can see if we can change them. Now the rapporteur says that the paragraph has not been explained. But it is precisely because I cannot prove that it is so. That's why I want this reading. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur: does the rapporteur have any idea whether these reforms could be one of the reasons why young people are under pressure?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151427	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151428	Well, I would like to challenge the premise that Mr. Jacob Mark and SF have added to the motion for a resolution because there is simply no knowledge or evidence that we have here a situation where students measured up to 10, 20, 30 years ago were more stressed than they are today. My starting point is that it is hard to go to a higher education institution. It has to be, as it were, because we are up there demanding a high academic level of professionalism. There are exams, and there are some who feel easier to be tried than others. My heart is always beating, too, the day before I may have to be tried somehow. It's a perfectly natural thing. But I would like to return the question to Mr. Jacob Mark, but I'm gonna have so much time for that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151522	Later, yes. We are grateful to the rapporteur and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Beazley. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151533	Thank you. The Danish People's Party fully agrees that the well-being of students is important. At the same time, I would like to start by saying that I disagree with the solution proposed by this motion for a resolution, and it is also in the light of the legislative proposal that we have just dealt with first, in which we specifically support a local freedom to find methods and ways of solving the challenges. At the same time, we in the Danish People's Party also believe that it is important that we do not make more bureaucratic overall solutions. I myself have previously worked with well-being measurements in the field of health and safety. Long and advanced questionnaires were developed from the National Research Centre for Safety and Health at Work. They were a very good basis for local processes if, as a management and employee, you actively wanted to use them. But if they weren't used that way, they were more of a trouble. The proposed national study will, for me, have the character of an extra bureaucratic layer. And it may be an action that comes because we say in here that we want to see some measurement on this. Then it just hits me: what are some measurements we can get, and what is it we can use them for? The authors themselves mention in the comments to the proposal a study by the Danish Magisters' Association, which shows that every second student at the University of Copenhagen has experienced sleep problems and difficulty in concentrating, while one in four has experienced depression in the last six months. I certainly hope that's not true. If one in four students at the University of Copenhagen has had depression in the last six months, they are probably not going to study anymore. Depression is a diagnosis. This may be an expression of stress, but, as the previous rapporteur said, I would say, it would be very, very strange if a study could be carried out at a place of education which showed that 100 per cent. of students had not been stressed in the last six months. Because what's stress? I mean, if you're going to a test, if you're going to a test of one kind or another, I'd say that if you're not stressed, it's enough because you're not taking it seriously enough. Then I understand that there may be stress levels coming up above a level where it becomes dangerous. But I just don't believe that in general national measurements you will be able to see something we can use for anything. At the same time, of course, we can already look at the measurements that you make at the educational establishments because you actually do this today that there is someone for me to see too low a response rate. And when there is a low response rate, you also get some results that you have a really hard time using for something, because it is typically anonymous surveys. If a third has answered, you really don't know anything about what to do and what to do about it. Therefore, my opinion on this is that if you are going to do something, if you are going to grab hold of something, you have to tackle the educational environmental studies that are being done locally and work on how to use them more constructively in a good way. I am actually pretty sure that you do a lot of places, and it would be a mistake to imagine that we should put something on top of them. What we could start with from the authors of the motion was perhaps asking how they are being used, what comes out of them, what kind of action plans you have around them. This could give us a picture that we could get without having to impose a great deal on the institutions. You can probably just look it up on the various educational sites' websites and see what it looked like last time. Then we can discuss it. But I must reject the proposal to place additional burdens on what is already out there. I simply do not believe that this will have any positive effect. So that's why the Danish People's Party is rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151912	I do not see anyone wishing to make brief comments, and that is why we are going to move on to Mr Vandemeulebroucke's report. Jakob Engel-Schmidt-Schmidt, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502151927	Thank you for that, President, and thank you for the floor. I also see the proposal as full of good intentions and a willingness to listen to the students and to remedy a day-to-day situation where there may be problems and other things. Having said that, I should also like to say straight away that the Left cannot support the proposal. We believe that the Danish educational institutions and universities in particular are struggling and living with a great deal of bureaucracy. I myself can reveal as director of a vocational school, subject to a new reform, voted through the Folketing with a huge broad majority and lots of good will that the bureaucracy fills a lot. You are subject to action plans, you have to test the experience, you have to test future visions, you have to examine how the students go to the task and how they apply for internship and other things. In fact, there is so much bureaucracy in an entirely normal vocational school that you and I know that it is not a university, but it is after all a place that is right after the primary school spends a lot of working time on it. The university staff I have talked to tell us that you spend a lot of time on bureaucracy. In fact, Christiansborg is warned not to introduce more bureaucracy, and it is stressed that if you do, it must be accompanied by existing studies. That is also why the Minister, the Social Democrat rapporteur and even the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party, and I myself would like to point out that if we are to do something in this area, we should include some issues in future zoom studies. It'll be natural. The question then is whether it will be relevant. My impression is that today all universities are asking their students how they feel and are also developing action plans on the basis of the data collected. It is only natural that the senior management team should be concerned about how the students feel and ensure that there is a learning environment where you can both thrive and develop. That doesn't change the fact that I still perceive Mr. Jacob Mark and SF's proposals as an expression of a willingness to address the challenges that may be, but I am just not sure that a detailed management of what to examine from Christiansborg from year to year is the way forward. We could also ask whether the SU is too low or too high, whether you are happy about the relationship at home with your parents, whether you feel that the teacher you have, who faces you and helps in practice lessons, and the lecturers are skilled or less skilled. However, universities already do so in many areas. That is why we cannot support the proposal, although we are prepared to include issues of well-being in the forthcoming zoom survey. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152220	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152223	Thank you. After all, I was quite happy when I heard that the Minister would like to include the welfare issue in the next zoom survey, and I am, of course, because I think that we need to know on a regular basis how the students actually feel. After all, the rapporteur spoke out against this measure of student well-being. At least this was the case, and I should just like to remind the rapporteur that the rapporteur's own party has been involved in introducing well-being measurements both in primary, secondary and vocational education, and we have done so because, from a political point of view, we do not want to introduce more bureaucracy or more detailed management, but because we want to have an idea of whether there is something wrong out there, whether there is something that we should support politically. So I just want to hear for the record whether the rapporteur thinks that it is a good idea for us to measure the well-being of students, for example. in a zoom survey.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152314	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152315	Thank you. After all, it is our proposal to measure it in a zoom survey, and we are happy to do so. I believe that my scepticism is about introducing another study on top of the already strong and very large bureaucracy. I am fully aware that Christiansborg is responsible for studies both at primary, vocational, secondary, commercial and higher education institutions, and this has happened with the best will. That is also why I am merely warning against perhaps putting another study on top of the already tall stack.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152351	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152354	After all, what I want is for every two years, after the zoom survey, to continue to have tools that can be used politically. So if the rapporteur thinks it is a good idea to measure in the next zoom, why is it not a good idea to have a tool in the future to measure the well-being of students every two years or every three years from political teams, just as we do at the other educational institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152419	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152421	Or maybe it is. In the comments on the proposal and it may of course be that I am wrong, so the rapporteur must finally correct me. I have not come across material that makes it visible that the proposers have been in contact with all universities and asked how they measure well-being. It's just a short click around the various educational institutions' websites or phone calls to those responsible, and it tells a little about how you actually already ask the students how they feel. That is why I am merely warning against introducing double bureaucracy. I do not think we are so far apart, and I wonder if we can find a way to include some of the questions in the upcoming zoom and thus satisfy the intention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152502	Thank you, sir. Jakob Engel-Schmidt. There are no more brief comments. Then we move on to Mr. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152508	Thank you. Overall, Enhedslisten is positive about SF's proposal. We believe that there is good sense in trying to investigate things. We also note this from the debate that has already taken place, and it is also stated in the comments that one can of course discuss the concrete form, but we think it is important to focus on looking at the well-being of students, looking at how they develop physically and mentally in relation to their working environment and their daily lives. It is also indisputable, I think, that the conditions that we offer students in higher education through the legislation we make, through the measures we do now, are the progress reform, the educational ceiling or the training quarantine, calling it what you want, has already been mentioned. After all, it helps to create a day-to-day, a working day, for students who may be of a stressful nature. Now the word stress has been mentioned in several contexts, and I think it would be appropriate to distinguish between stress in various forms, because there is a very large difference between the type of stress that comes, because you have not just got things done on time, or because you have come a little behind in some tasks, and then the stress that some people get, and which is a real illness, a serious disease, in which it is so that you are actually completely unable to solve your tasks and do your job and also study for that matter, and where there are many other social functions that are broken up, i.e. because of stress as a disease. So it's very important to distinguish between stress as a disease and then that regular talk we're having with saying that we're a little stressed at the moment. If you can say you're a little stressed at the moment, you don't have stress, you're usually just a little behind on the tasks maybe. So overall, we think it makes sense that you try to follow up on this and have an ongoing study done. It may also be that these studies here may help to support our educational environment law, so that it can also become a tool for it to say what to do, what to do, what to do for some changes to be made in concrete terms. So that means that we would like to vote in favour of this proposal, at least we are very much in favour of the intention in the SF's proposal that we should have well-being and the daily environment and working conditions of students on the agenda, so that we can take care of it and so that universities can take care of it and so that we can deal with it too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152807	Thank you, sir. Bruno Jerup. We move on to Mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502152813	Thank you. As the Minister has already mentioned, there is already a well-functioning system for measuring and assessing the well-being of students. That is why I agree with the remarks already made by the Minister about the unreasonableness of introducing more evaluations than already exists. However, now that I have the floor, I would like to make a few more general remarks about the well-being of higher education. Tomorrow I have a meeting here at Christiansborg with representatives of the Children's and Youth Psychiatry Society. It is a meeting which the company has asked for to be set up on the basis of some comments that I have made in the past in the media about the problem of over-diagnostics. Overdiagnosis is also at the heart of the Children's and Youth Psychiatry Society. On 12 March 2017, the Chairman and Vice-President of the Company wrote a joint commentary in Morgenavisen Jyllands-Posten. It was called "Show a social spirit for the benefit of the right patients. " What worries the authors, who are therefore doctors specialising in psychiatry, is the tendency to overdiagnost children and young people. In the article they write, among other things, and I quote: "We believe that you can talk up a problem, and we find that more organisations and stakeholders use figures that the media, communities and politicians do not properly ask about or know where they come from. We must avoid wondering why, but we feel the duty to ask for socialism. So it was the Children's and Youth's Psychiatry Society. What is the problem is that all those who have questionable, fashionable diagnoses or diagnoses, they have themselves made it a bit that too, Mr President. Bruno Jerup was talking about taking resources from those who have been properly investigated and diagnosed with severe disorders. This explains the authors further down in the article, where they continue: "We are experiencing a large increase in the number of patients in children's and youth's psychiatry, the municipalities are getting more inquiries about vulnerable children and young people, and the schools are seeing a growing absence in the large classes. But we really don't know why. We don't have good, objective markers for the diseases and what triggers them. We have a duty to have that. We must work on the basis of research, evidence and knowledge, and not on political stand or plunder and conjecture that it is a more demanding society or a more and more rhetoric. We cannot be familiar with our children and young people, for we make faith facts, and problems to pop and they listen with. In addition to the remarks that the Minister has already made and which I therefore very much agree with, I would really like to warn against the proposal, because it is for me to see some of the tendency to overdiagnost by addressing problems which the Children's and Youth Psychiatry warns so strongly against. That is why the Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution. At the same time, I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say, although the reasons are different, that they do not support the resolution either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153152	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153155	You do not know why, it is said, and you must build it on knowledge and on research, if you are going to do something about it here in the future, and if you are going to find out if you have to do anything at all. But you can't do it if you don't have that knowledge or that research, and that's what this proposal is all about: getting that knowledge. Well, now L.A. has to go and put up with your painter, sorry, someone on the wall, because I'm saying that the reforms are pushing the students. But that might not be the case at all. I also think that LA must be interested in getting a knowledge of whether something is actually pushing students. That's why I want this investigation. Because then we can learn more, and then we have something to discuss, so that it is not just political plunder.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153242	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153243	Yes, but what is being proposed in B 140 is, as far as I can understand, that a study needs to be carried out using the survey methodology, and one simply cannot make psychiatric diagnoses by means of survey and, above all, self-diagnosation cannot be used as a tool. So if this is going to be done, it's going to be made by some psychiatrists, and it's not going to be done by survey methods, and it's not going to be done by self-diagnosing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153313	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153314	It is good, then, that at the end of the proposal I write that the proposers are flexible in relation to how a national recurrent well-being study among students in the courses can be carried out. It's actually because I'm pretty pragmatic about how we do this work. I'm just interested that we find out if the students are under pressure and if they're under pressure, why they are, and I think we can work on that. So I would like to ask: if it is not appropriate to work with well-being measurements, does the rapporteur disagree with the fact that there are well-being measurements in primary, secondary and vocational education? For this whole issue of over-diagnosing is not just about students, if I know the rapporteur correctly. It is also about children and young people in youth education.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153355	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153356	I just have to say so quite outside the ordinary day-to-day political controversy that when the management of the Children's and Youth Psychiatry cares about overdiagnosis and says that it is a resource problem because it actually removes resources from people with serious diagnoses that have been properly conducted, I take it seriously. Therefore, my position on how to move forward is as much influenced by what I get to know after my meeting with the management of the company.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153429	Thank you, sir. Henrik Dahl. There are no more brief comments, so we go to Mrs Carolina Magdalene Maier, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153436	Thank you. Now this is almost going to be a whole method discussion, and it's starting to get really exciting. I wouldn't have said this, but now I'm saying it anyway: self-esteem health is one of the things you use in a number of sectors, among others. in health care, in relation to getting people to assess their own well-being both physically and mentally. It is one of the best tools that exists, because when you compare how people respond to their self-esteemed health with medical examinations of their health, it turns out that there is a really great coincidence. One has begun to use, among other things, within the branch of science. SF-36, which is a form that you use for self-esteem health, very much, from that perspective. So when Mr. Henrik Dahl says you can't assess your own health, it's not true. I fully agree that what I am talking about here is not in psychiatry, it is in relation to more common well-being, but it was more to nuance the debate. That's not what we were supposed to talk about, but I just wanted to say it. First of all, I would like to thank the SF for presenting this motion for a resolution. I think this is a very important debate. We have to have it, and then we have to agree or disagree with how legitimate it is that students in higher education say that they think it is difficult and that they feel stressed. And what's stress about it, as Mr. Bruno Jerup mentions? There is no doubt that there are plenty of small indications that students in higher education today find this difficult. Then we can think it's whiny and say it's always been hard. We've always been nervous when we were gonna graduate. I used to be. But is that what is still at stake, or is it something more fundamental? That question is relevant to get an answer, and I do not think we can throw that away with reference to the fact that it has always been difficult and that it should be difficult to take an education and that it should not be a dance on roses. So in that optics I think it is so relevant with kiss-hands to accept that there are in fact some who care about getting mapped out how students thrive in higher education. How it is to be done then, I fully agree with Enhedslisten's rapporteur that there can be different models for. In the alternative, we are positive about this motion for a resolution. We want to help find a model for it, whether it should be a new study or whether it should be done in connection with ZOOM. It may well be that it is sensible to do just that for, you might say, not to create more bureaucracy. Having said that, I think that what remains is relevant, and it's a little noble for this... is that we take the answers seriously. What does it mean to take the answers seriously? Let us now imagine that what we find out is that students in higher education are actually having a difficult time, and perhaps some are showing signs of some psychological challenges. Then, as parliamentary politicians, we can go in and choose to say that we must then solve that challenge by making free psychological assistance available to them, and that is not because there is something wrong with it. But it is perhaps some more fundamental things that are wrong in relation to the way we have chosen to put the whole system together, and there I wish that we, together and in political union here in Parliament, are also ready for, if we get this far and it sounds a little like we are doing it one way or another and getting some results into the way we can then basically solve the challenges, and it is clear that we will have to discuss what terms we are setting for the students. I do not think it is about being more busy as such, but it is about the framework that we are giving students today in relation to what it means to take a higher education, is a framework that gives less room for reflection, to follow its curiosity and to actually do what is exciting. When I was studying, you could follow what you thought was exciting and interesting, instead of having to finish a course at a certain time, because you now had to be enrolled in the next subject. I think that is devastating for the desire to study, the desire to learn and the enthusiasm for what you are doing, and that is also what affects the well-being. These are assumptions, but if it turns out that we're going somewhere where students don't thrive, and we have to take it seriously, then I hope we're ready to look at the basic challenges that are for their everyday life. Then I'll give Mr. Henrik Dahl is right that there may be a tendency towards increasing individualization in relation to this saying: I feel bad. But is it the individual's own responsibility? No, as a society, we create a framework for our individuals, and that applies from the very young children until they become students, so it may well be that the individual is having a difficult time today, but we cannot only view it as an individual problem. We need to look at what kind of framework we make available to the individual, but also what kind of discourse we have when we talk about how to master ourselves as a human being. In short, we support the resolution and we would like to go further along this path. But, as I said, we would like to take part in further discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153947	Thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502153956	Thank you to the SF for putting the subject on the agenda. I actually feel like many other rapporteurs, namely that this is a real issue and that the intention is good, but I also think that I am partly like the Minister, namely that there are a great many measurements that the educational institutions are already being asked to draw up. It is already difficult to get sufficient response rates. So I think that part of it is a little counter-productive. On the one hand, I think that we often talk about more decentralization and that we should not override higher education institutions, but on the other hand we are putting forward more measurement here. But what I think we should be able to move forward with, because I hear that too quite widely, is to see whether we have sufficient help for those students who need it and whether our education programmes are sufficiently inclusive for the future too. One of the things that concerns me even very much is students and quite obvious in this case students with mental vulnerability. Psychiatric vulnerability is not something reserved for a particular group. It's something that can hit all of us. It's also something you can get over and move on from. It is also something that sometimes is a little difficult to define. But what is quite clear is that it will be a huge loss for us as a society if we give up people because at some point in their lives they experience a mental vulnerability. It may be something concrete that you are experiencing and where you need flexibility and spaciousness, or it may be something that you are experiencing right now and here, or it may be something from the past that is being passed on. Often it is the case that mentally vulnerable people, and this is very much true of students, really have to provide more resources than all of us, because they fall outside the straight path and have to use enormous effort to find their way between the boxes, between the rules and between the framework, and that requires a great deal. That is why we sometimes have to turn it around a little and look at how many resources people with mental vulnerability actually have, because if we allowed those resources to be at stake in a different way, we could make a great deal of it first and foremost for the benefit of the individual, but also for us as a society. It is rarely the intention, with the rules and frameworks that we have voted for ourselves, to put obstacles in the way of people; on the contrary, the intention is to move them forward. But, of course, as a society and as politicians, we need to have an eye on whether there are consequences of our decisions that were not intended and that are not implemented in the way we think they should, perhaps because it has been too rigid. We have to do this, and we are also concerned about this in the Radical Left to investigate. So I think that if, in any way, we can come in the direction of focusing on how educational institutions act on the well-being studies they actually do, rather than making more, and on what we can do to help and sometimes also give more flexibility, we are certainly willing to look at the decisions we have taken ourselves to give more room for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502154357	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502154410	Thank you for that and thank you for the many good input, both from the Minister and the various rapporteurs. I will return to some of the questions and comments that have been given, but first I would like to say something about why we have actually proposed this. We have a pretty clear idea that students in Denmark are under pressure and also pressed in a way that is not appropriate. I think it really affects their well-being. I think that more and more studies are popping up. I myself intend to mention one of them now from the trade unions, which measures their young members, but also studies of medical students showing that young people are taking performance-enhancing medicines. And do you know that sometimes you can also have a political feeling? I have a feeling that there are many young people sitting around in education, who are under pressure to a degree that is not healthy, neither for them nor for us as a society. Then it is true that it is a question of faith, what it is that does it. It is, of course, a question of faith, whether it is because you have to get up to an exam or because something is wrong at home or whether some of the reforms we have been through together. But you can look at one of the studies that have been done, and there we have the Danish Magisters Association's survey from last year. It says 30% that they are stressed and have been stressed over the last semester either all the time or a large part of the time. And 29%. Says they're part of the time. How, then, does that manifest itself? Well, it does, in that way, that students have difficulty sleeping, or that they downgrade social relations, and I think that is quite serious. If you look at it then it is actually also measured on what this is due to, that is why they are young pressed, well then it actually says that it is own expectations and ambitions that are primarily the cause. But a large proportion of young people also say that it is because of the reforms and the demands made by the political team that the section says: "Reformer, barriers and changes in my study structure" and that I have completely acknowledged to have been with them, and there are also many of the intentions that remain good, but if we find out that they are pushing students in a way that is not appropriate, then we should consider changing them, perhaps also because it could be an economically good investment. Imagine if by looking at the well-being of students you can avoid that there are students who fall from in the future. I believe that there is much to be done by promoting better wellbeing, including in higher education. In terms of how this should be done, I am actually quite pragmatic and it is also at the end of the motion for a resolution. Whether you measure qualitatively or quantitatively or how you do it doesn't mean so much to me. There are also people who know more than I do. So I'm kind of ready to discuss that. I believe that what is needed, which is not in today's educational environmental assessments, is a political knowledge of how things are going. I think that most politicians do not really have an overview of how students feel. It is true that it is very decentralized, but we do not have a basic political knowledge of how students feel. How, then, did this come about today? Well, that has also been expressed in several of the rapporteur's speeches. Sir. Henrik Dahl said it quite clearly, namely that he did not think that we have that knowledge and that experts do not think that we have that knowledge and therefore it is difficult to react. Will it just be political castles when we talk about it? Well, that's why we need that knowledge. The Socialist rapporteur said: we have nothing to show that the reforms should be the reason why young people are under stress and how they have developed over the last 20 to 30 years. No, we don't have anything because we don't measure it politically. That is, of course, the problem, and that is what we want to change, so that it is not just out decentralized, you have to measure, but you actually have to measure centrally to find out how the students feel. This is what has been done in primary school. This is what has been done in high schools, in vocational training. I know that it is popular and very normal in politics to say that being a student is something different than being a student and so is it. However, I think that just as a well-being effort in folk schools and in upper secondary education pays off, so it also pays to promote well-being in higher education. So I don't think you can take it apart. I believe, in fact, that it will bring real benefits both for the individual and for us as a society, to promote better well-being. Then the question has been asked about this study, which we have attached to it and from which I have also read out whether it is going to last at all. Are the young people even so stressed out? He said that if you have a depression so much of the time, you should drop out, said the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then I'll just have to say, I don't know. That is why we have tabled this proposal. It's just too little knowledge of how the students feel. That is the tool that I think we are missing, and that is why I am very pleased that the Minister is saying that it will be taken back into account in the forthcoming zoom survey. It also shows that we could well have a need for it when we have already had it in the last one and want it to be included in the next one. I believe that this must be a political point of action which we must have in a range so that we can work on it in the future, because I think there is a great deal to be done and because I think the young people are under pressure today. Until then, however, with the idea that the Minister will take it into account in the forthcoming zoom survey, I will dwell a little on educational environmental assessments, as Mr. I think Jakob Engel-Schmidt encouraged me to do so, and it may be that we will be able to increase our efforts to improve the well-being of students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502154940	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502154943	Thank you. When looking at studies carried out on stress, the relationship between stress and poor mental health and safety at work, the first thing you look at is to find the cause, the workload. But the latest research results show that it is not the workload, no, it is actually poor management. Secondly, it is also the bad atmosphere in the workplace, probably caused by the poor management, the lack of a sense of community, and then it is the exclusion of the community that creates loneliness. Of course, when I read something like this, I think of an institution, a place of study, which is, of course, the student's place of work. Could one imagine that perhaps by creating a more positive study environment where students were included more specifically, they created a framework for it at the individual institution and that it could reduce the feeling of stress? Could it be imagined that it could already be implemented today, rather than having to ask students how they feel about all the risks it contains in order to drive in the wrong direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155051	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155052	I think I have back cover to say that it is completely evident that good study environments also mean that students thrive better, so we should not wait two seconds to initiate a political effort to ensure that more hours are spent on the programmes, that more feedback is coming from the teachers and that there is an active study environment in the programmes, even if they are located elsewhere than in Copenhagen or Aarhus. After all, there are political decisions that stand in the way of this; they are in the way of it when you push the economy of universities and higher education, as you have done. It has not been long since, for example, the pedagogues. Made blockade, and it was partly because so much has been carved around. This shows that there are some structural challenges, because the educational institutions have been cut back, and if you want to solve this, I think that even before you have measured, you could go a long way towards improving the well-being of students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155149	Mrs. Mette Reissmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155151	I fully agree with the answer that Mr. Jacob Mark buys. Now there was one small thing, like Mr. Jacob Mark said in his rapporteur's speech, and that is among other things. the fact that students feel so pressured and so stressed that they have to take different kinds of stimuli in order to be able to cope. Now I know I'm revealing the generation gap between mr. Jacob Mark and I, when I now say that back in the 1980s, when I read and was also a student counsellor, students also took various performance-enhancing measures. That's what they did back then. The question to Jacob Mark is: of course we must deal with the mentally vulnerable students, there is no doubt about that at all, but does the rapporteur agree that if we now supported and strengthened student counselling, we would already come a very long way in achieving the result that the rapporteur wants?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155242	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155243	Now I learned an expression from the radical rapporteur, namely the political acid test, I think the rapporteur called it, and that means whether there really is a problem. I just have to say that if it has been a problem since the 1980s, before I was born, that students are taking performance-enhancing measures in order to be able to cope with our educational system, then I think there are some politicians who have not taken their task seriously, and then I think there is even more reason for such a study here, so that we can find out how we change it. But yes, while we're doing it, I think it's a very good idea to strengthen student counselling.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155314	Then it's Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155315	I would just like to say that when I mentioned the Danish Magisters' Association's study on e.g. depression, it was really only meant as an example that one cannot imagine that through such studies one can even diagnose something related to depression. But I'd like to ask Mr. Jacob Mark, about sir. Jacob Mark sometimes feels stressed in his current work, about Mr. Jacob Mark sometimes downgrades social contexts in order to do his job, and about Mr. Jacob Mark thinks it's a serious problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155347	Yes, sometimes I do, but if I had to answer such an investigation, I would probably not write that it was a very big problem, because I think it is at a level that is manageable. However, I believe, as the rapporteur said in his rapporteur's speech, that at some point everyone feels stressed and stressed. But I also believe that we must be very vigilant that we do not push them too much, that those people do not reach the edge, because at worst this could mean that they are dropping out of their education, just as I believe that jobs must also ensure that there is a good working environment. In other words, just neglecting a good working environment or a good study environment by saying that we politicians also feel a little pressured sometimes, I would think is too bad.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155427	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155428	Thank you. When Mr. Jacob Mark says it, I also take it as an expression that it is very individual how you experience it, and thus it is at least in my head very difficult to imagine from a questionnaire study that you can get any answer to it. So I'd like to ask Mr. Jacob Mark on what Mrs Mette Reissmann said earlier. We know that stress challenges in workplaces are typically about management and frameworks and, to a very limited extent, about the amount of work you have, so is this not something we can work with and do something about instead of conducting studies? Does the rapporteur think that studies will enable us to say anything about something that we will be able to use in here for anything?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155519	Then it is the rapporteur to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155519-2	In fact, I think you can do studies that you can use for anything. It is individual, but when together we have made joint well-being measurements at the Danish Folkeparti, SF and a number of other parties at both the primary and secondary schools, it is because we think it is a good tool. And although they are also individual, we have made them because we believe that this is a way to work with the well-being of the students. Similarly, I believe that this will be a tool that can be used to work with the well-being of students.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155548	Then it's Jakob Engel-Schmidt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155551	Actually, I'm one of the sirs. I am not going to say that Jacob Mark's political fans might sound wrong, but at least such political fans, although we disagree deeply. I think the rapporteur usually does this excellently. The last time we debated in the Chamber, I think I mentioned Martin Andersen Nexø, a well-known Danish writer, but I also have to say that when we are talking about this issue today, we are probably a little more down in the pixibog category. Because it had dressed up the rapporteur, I would say, before such a debate was taken in the Danish Parliament, perhaps to collect some data from the universities and turn to the study guide in addition to the study from the Danish Magisters Association, which apparently shows that one in four students has depression. When I mention it, it is just because there is really a goodwill both from the Minister and several of the parliamentary rapporteurs to include it here in zoom, and that is why I think it may be a little bit easy to just write that now we are, in a sense, requiring the Folketing to adopt a law that gives rise to a further investigation. And that is not because we need to have the big therapy talk from here on down to my own position, but does the rapporteur not feel that I have a point?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155659	You can always have feelings, but I do not think I have that feeling at this moment, but I would say that I am aware that the educational institutions are working on this issue in a decentralised manner. We have also examined this, and I even think we have written it in the proposal, in other words that they are working on it. But when I want this, it's because I want a political tool. I want a political tool to look at how the students really are doing. Do the political decisions we make in here have implications for the students, and should we do something about it? And I have to say again that we have also had excellent cooperation with the Left in the field of primary and secondary education, and that is where we have made well-being measurements, precisely because we would like to have a sense of how things are going so that we know whether we should put into practice politically.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155748	Good! I shall try to be brief so that I do not bother the President to stand up again. What I would just like to ask is: could it have been imagined that before the motion for a resolution had been tabled, an e-mail was written to them asking for all the well-being material that lay there, summing up the figures and assessing whether the data material was sufficient to answer the question that is actually being uncovered?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155810-2	The Minister revealed today that in the next education zoom the Minister would also like to work on this issue. It can then be said that I could have called and asked the Minister about this before, but what I would like to have is, as it were, a firm study, as in the other educational institutions. This is in the future, not only in the next education zoom, but also in the future, so we always have in mind how the student's well-being is going and why it is going as it is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155837	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There are no more brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155849	The debate is open. The Social Democrat rapporteur is currently in office as chairman of the Folketing. I hope that, at a later stage, I will be able to return to the rapporteur's list and say that the Social Democrats support the motion for a resolution. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mr. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502155923	Thank you, President. If the President cannot come first, then the heavy burden must land softly on my shoulders. See, the Government requests the consent of the Danish Parliament that a Danish military contribution be made available to NATO's advanced presence in the Baltic States and Poland. The decision to establish NATO's advanced presence was taken at the NATO Summit in July 2016. The advanced presence consists of a multinational battalion in each of the Baltic States and Poland, which is led by a framework. The advanced presence will unequivocally demonstrate NATO's alliance solidarity and underline the will to protect NATO's population and territory from any aggression, since an attack on NATO's advanced presence will constitute aggression against several allies. It has been considered necessary to establish the advanced presence in the light of the uncertainty caused by inter alia: Russia's illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, actions in East Ukraine and developments in the generally more complex security image facing the alliance to the east. In particular, the Baltic States and Poland have experienced an increase in military activity in their eastern vicinity. The advanced presence is a defensive and proportional response to the more complex security picture in the region and the consequences of the rules of the alliance countries. The total Danish contribution will consist of up to 200 persons in the form of a company size unit with necessary support, which will be distributed for a period of approximately 12 months from around the turn of 2017 and 2018. No decision has been taken on an extension or a renewal, as this may become relevant at a later date. It should be noted, however, that NATO has not taken a position on the duration of the advance, but there is an expectation that it will be a multiannual broadcast. The Left believes that it is a good idea to mark solidarity within NATO. We regret, however, that this is necessary, but since NATO is one of the cornerstones of Danish foreign policy, it is also important that we stand together and stand together and burst with the Baltic countries and NATO. Let me just say that we are sending this unit along with 19 other countries, and that the unit together will amount to 4,000 men, and that the Danish contribution will be approx. 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160217	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr President, there is just one brief comment to make here. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160227	Thank you. It can be said that right now there is a situation in which both Russia and NATO, like the Baltic, are stepping up militarily. It is clear that when you do so there is a danger that it can lead to conflict and that you can have such a circle of armaments on both sides that will continue. That is why I would like to hear from the Left rapporteur: what does the Left expect to be the Russian response to this increase in the presence of NATO troops?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160259	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160300	Thank you. The reality is that the security situation in our neighbourhood has become more complicated. And it is well to take due care that, in solidarity with your good friends and members of the defence alliance, you mark your intention to defend your own territory. The rapporteur for the Enhedslisten must be aware that the unity of the Baltic States does not in any way have any offensive possibilities in its construction. In my view, this is a very defensive entity, but it says to Russian forces, which say Russian snap-exercises, there is an illegal annexation of Crimea, and there are hybrid acts of war in eastern Ukraine. In fact, I think it is in the right place and in the right place that NATO shows: here and no longer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160402	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160403	After all, there is no doubt that the Russian presence in eastern Ukraine and the annexation of Crimea are clearly contrary to international law and totally unacceptable. But the question is whether Denmark will be safer by emissary of these troops, or are we at risk of the Russians returning with further armament on their side of the border? And there I would just like to hear what the Left expects to happen. Because if you just arm yourself without having a plan for what's going to happen, then I fear it could be a really dangerous armament spiral we're moving into.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160440	Well, I don't see this as an armor. I see it as moving around some units to show solidarity. In fact, I think it is rather remarkable that the rapporteur from the Enhedslisten does not support solidarity when we write on 2 May, and that was the first day yesterday, when I assume that the rapporteur was out to show solidarity and belonging together with the colleagues with whom the rapporteur is now in the party. I think this is also a way of showing to Russia that there is power behind the words. There is no doubt that we have been trying for a long time now to take the dialogue across the negotiating table. It has certainly not helped, on the contrary. I would like to say that with the intensity and the size of the Russian side at the moment, one can fear the worst. In fact, I think this is due diligence, it is to find the fire insurance in good time and make sure that it is cleaned off. It is not us who are out to put an aggressive fingerprint, no, it is on the other side of the border.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160547	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502160610	Thank you. There is no doubt that Russia's annexation of Crimea and conduct in eastern Ukraine is a clear violation of international law and must be clearly condemned. It is crucial that we in Denmark, as a small country, stand up for international law and oppose violations of international law where large countries use the law of the jungle to strike down the small ones. It goes without saying that Denmark, as a small country, has a great interest in defending international law and, of course, in this matter, criticise Russia for its aggressive behaviour. That is why the Enhedslisten has also actively supported economic and political pressure on Russia. We welcome the fact that the European Union has imposed targeted sanctions which, for example, prohibit the export of arms to Russia and Russian President Putin. Similarly, we have clearly called on the government to reject the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, the Baltic gas pipeline, as it will increase Europe's dependence on Russian gas. With Enhedslisten's eyes, we do not need a greater dependence on Putin gas; we need a green and sustainable transition. Having said that, however, we think it is essential to turn to the arms race that is currently taking place in the Baltic Sea. As we see it, it's unwise and very dangerous. Both NATO and Russia are arming up in the Baltic Sea. One armor leads the other into an evil spiral that increases the danger of conflict. And this is particularly dangerous for us in Denmark, for us in the North and generally for the countries around the Baltic, because this is a arms race that is going on right in our vicinity, and the conflict will, at worst, take place here. To be honest, it's creepy to think about. Therefore, this armor will not be of benefit to the Baltics, as it is often said that this armor will help. No, because the problem is that it is the Baltics who end up being hit the most by a potential conflict. They will have the greatest benefit of mutual disarmament and détente. And frankly, if you think about it, does anyone believe that the Russians will remove their missiles that they are setting up in Kaliningrad because there will be more weapons on NATO's side of the border? I don't think so. History shows us something else. It is naive to believe that arms races reduce the danger of conflict. We cannot remove Russian missiles or soldiers with an increased number of weapons and missiles on our side of the border. We can only do this by means of mutual disarmament. This is the experience of the end of the Cold War and the end of the Cold War. We managed to stop the Cold War and put an end to the Warsaw Pact without a shot being loosened. It happened through negotiation. In fact, we are in a quite paradoxical situation. NATO and Russia border on each other in several places. You do it in the Baltic Sea, and you do it in the Arctic here in the northern part of Europe. While in the Baltic Sea there is a arms race, both here in the Folketing, but also broadly on both sides of the border, there is a desire to ensure relaxation in the Arctic. I think it is absolutely crucial that we do not fall flat for Putin. As I have said, in the Enhedslisten, we are in favour of economic and political pressure, but we must not make the present acute situation even more dangerous with armaments and arms races. Together with the Nordic Left from Sweden, from Norway, from Finland, from Iceland, from the Faroe Islands and from Greenland, the Enhedslisten, SF and the Alternative have put forward a proposal for closer Nordic security cooperation and a proposal on how to work for mutual disarmament. It is an indication of how we can avoid the arms race and the spiral of armaments that Europe and the Baltic Sea are in danger of continuing to be inside. It's dangerous for all of us. Instead of participating in the arms race between NATO and Russia, we in the North have an interest in ensuring détente and disarmament in the Baltic Sea. I am not standing here saying that it will be easy to achieve it. No, but I say that it is naive to believe that Denmark, the Baltic and the Baltic will be safer through a continued arms race. And that's why Enhedslisten rejects the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161122	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161127	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I think we can all agree with the Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the best thing would have been detente, the best thing would have been no further military escalation. However, if there is to be credibility in membership of NATO, if there is to be solidarity between countries that pay tribute to the free, which celebrates democracy, which celebrates the right to choose for themselves, then surely we will also be forced to be credible. After all, we can see how far dialogue and good intentions have helped Ukraine. This is not the future we want for our Baltic countries and Poland. We are forced to say that, if we are to be able to negotiate, we are also forced to understand that there can be some power behind the words, that there can be some credibility in the debate, in order to negotiate hot air, I do not think we can achieve anything. And that is basically what Enhedslisten is proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161226	No, that is by no means what Enhedslisten proposes. I understand that the Baltic countries are afraid of Russia for historical reasons. I fully understand that. But not least because I wish the Baltic countries well, I do believe that it is essential that we work to reverse the arms race that is currently running in the Baltic Sea, because it is they who will be on the front line in a potential conflict. By this I mean that the approach is wrong. We must work towards mutual disarmament agreements. It's not the same as having to lie down flat. As I said, political and economic pressure must be put in place, but we must work towards mutual relaxation rather than the current arms race.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161309	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161311	Well, I guess that's what you're working on. I know the rapporteur so well that I also know that the rapporteur is following closely what is happening in the field of the OSCE. We are working to restore the CFE Treaty, we are working on confidence-building measures, but that is not enough. After all, you are faced with a country where you have the impression that the harder Putin drives his own population, the more whip he gives them, the fewer rights, the fewer opportunities, the more popular the man becomes. Unfortunately, we are being forced to send the signal that we are serious about this. We will choose our own future. We don't want to be imposed on anything. We do not want to be a Russian area of interest, we want to have the opportunity to choose our own future, and that is probably just where we have a community of interests and values with the Baltic countries and Poland.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161402	I believe that the OSCE is an extremely important organisation here. And I think, for example, that the initiative taken by the German Foreign Minister, Mr Steinmeier, to try to revive mutual negotiations on disarmament in Europe under the auspices of the OSCE is extremely positive. But I just think that what we are doing here with the envoy of soldiers to the Russian border is working against the disarmament initiatives that are being taken. You could turn it around: should we then also arm ourselves in the Arctic? No, I don't think so. In fact, no one in this Chamber thinks so. And should we not rather try to achieve disarmament and relaxation in the Baltic Sea, just as we are all working to achieve it in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161439	We are therefore grateful to the rapporteur, and the next in line is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161449	Thank you. Of course, the Liberal Alliance supports a Danish contribution to NATO's advanced presence in the Baltics and Poland, and we do so because it is about an absolutely necessary response from the defence alliance on which we in Denmark build our freedom and security. Denmark has always been behind and involved in making decisions in NATO. We also did so with the resolution on increased presence in the Baltic States and Poland from the July 2016 summit. That is why, of course, we must also make a substantial contribution to the concrete adaptation of NATO's forces and their redeployment. Today, Danish defence can only be considered in a NATO context, and in the new security policy reality Russia has annexed Crimea and is creating unrest and uncertainty in eastern Ukraine. Troop construction is taking place in the immediate vicinity of our ally neighbours to the east and within Denmark's vicinity. It is therefore gratifying that 20 out of 28 NATO countries have chosen to contribute, and for all those who might doubt that NATO is a strong and united defence alliance, where Members are so shoulder to shoulder in any given situation that might threaten the security of any Member State. That is why, of course, Denmark must also contribute to NATO's advanced presence in the Baltic and Poland. And then I should like to welcome the Conservative People's Party and say that they also support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161638	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we've reached Mr. Knox. René Gade, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502161647	Thank you. In the alternative, it has been a balancing act for the larger ones to take a position on this proposal, and that is often the case when it comes to NATO. We believe that NATO today is essential to Denmark's security policy. We find it hard to see how we are at present. We need to set up without the security that that alliance has created. We would like to see greater and stronger cooperation with the European countries. We can work towards that. We would like even more initiative and support for the UN's peace efforts and the UN's efforts in general. We support this as much as possible. So when we say yes to this bill, knowing that it can be seen as an aggression and a provocation of Russia, as the Enhedslisten's rapporteur mentioned earlier, we have then given a lot of thought to what is actually expected to be Russia's reaction to such an armament and what is really going to happen, and we cannot know that. But what we know is something that I have also experienced myself when I was in Talinn with the American Embassy. It has been a long time since now, but I have referred to that visit quite a number of times now, because it was quite interesting to see how the people of the Baltic countries actually perceived the threat. This bill also concerns Poland, but it was the Baltic countries I visited. After all, there is also a large Russian minority in parts of the region, and there are some who do not want the protection that comes from NATO to such an extent. I think it can be said that this is symbolic protection, because I do not think Russia would be able to cross borders, but I understand the fear that this could happen. It was the fear that was so pronounced because it had seen what happened in Crimea. When we try to put ourselves in their place as a NATO Member State, I think we have to go in and help them, because we are members of NATO, and we would expect the same goodwill towards us in terms of symbolic protection if it were Denmark, and that is why we are in favour of the bill. Then there's a few things I need to ask you about. This is among other things. the financing. It is intended to be a 12-month contribution, but it is also stated very clearly that this is something we expect to continue with. Where should the money be taken from, and how should the priority be? What can we really expect with regard to the total amount? At first sight, I do not see that this will change our position. Of course, there is always a limit, but I think it is essential that we say yes to this. So what should not be given priority when we contribute such considerable strength? Then there is the whole dialogue with Russia. What kind of forum do we have today for dialogue with Russia on the part of NATO? I do not think that the Danish dialogue with Russia is the most important here. It is simply NATO's dialogue, the United States' dialogue with Russia. What do we do with Trump sitting on one side and Putin on the other? Has a room been created where we can actually talk? Because we do not want to get into a situation where Russia becomes an enemy. I know that it is in the picture today that Russia is the enemy, but we simply cannot afford it as a country, that Russia becomes a geopolitical or a war-political enemy. It would simply be too violent, and I cannot see the consequences at all if we were to find ourselves in a situation where we are going to war with Russia. There, I think, in the rhetoric that is being used today, we have a problem, because if we establish Russia as an enemy, they will also be an enemy, and they will see our Article 5 efforts here to help the Baltic countries and Poland as a direct provocation. If we do not take much, much care, then NATO's role here at some point is just as devastating for the diplomatic efforts that have to be made as Russia's is, because it will be an escalation. We are in favour of the escalation of protection for the Baltic States and Poland, but we must also bear in mind the diplomatic guidelines I have heard from our defences, how far one should be from the border and how one will take account of precisely not provoking unnecessarily. I think that is very sensible, but we are very aware of the risks that will also be present here. So what kind of dialogue can we have with Russia in the future? I have not heard much news there that NATO has changed position. I do not hear that the rhetoric of NATO towards Russia has become more accommodating over recent years. So what are the fora in which this ongoing dialogue will be conducted, and is this destructive to that dialogue? We'll have to look at that when we get the response. I agree that Russia will of course see this as an aggression, but Russia is doing the same, and there we agree that the best way to speak to Russia is to show strength as well. But we must be aware that what it can really end up with is an escalation and an escalation and a state of cold war again. For everything in the world, we have to say no. It is not so easy for me to see that the dialogue with Russia is being conducted at the right level right now, so we will continue to press for that. Then we would like to hear a little about Denmark's role in NATO. Is there anything we can do for you? Can we go in and say what we'd like to offer? The 2%. are we not going to back up the need to reach, but are we going to be able to offer anything other than war materials? On the whole, we would like to see a slightly stronger dialogue on the part of Denmark with NATO, so that NATO can act on our behalf vis-à-vis Russia. But we support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162200	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162205	Thank you. Frankly, I have to say that I did not really understand what the position of the alternative was. So, the rapporteur listed a number of huge problems in this and then stated that the alternative could support it. The easiest thing to do in the world is to arm and create conflict. The hardest thing is to create disarmament and détente. Therefore, I would just like to hear quite clearly from the rapporteur: what is the alternative to sending 200 Danish soldiers to the Russian border, knowing that it will be considered an aggression and the Russians will probably respond with further armament? What will the alternative achieve?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162247	Well, I totally agree. I was also trying to outline precisely the very difficult balance that we have in the Alternative, which Denmark has, and which our Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence have in this situation, because what do we get out of it? I really do not think that we are getting so much more out of this than that Russia will have a good reason to feel provoked and say: you are doing the same thing as us. And frankly, that should be an argument for saying no. However, we are a member of NATO, and under Article 5, the Baltic countries have the right to protection. We have to stand there. If Russia goes across the border, there must be a NATO member, NATO forces that you meet first. It has a deterrent effect, and I understand that you need it. So we will support our NATO membership. We are members of NATO, and as long as we are, we must follow it up by also putting action after words and agreements. We must therefore create security for Poland and the Baltic countries, just as we ourselves would have liked if it were Denmark that had this threat hanging over its head. As to whether or not the threat has been experienced or real, whether Putin would be willing to cross the borders, I am in the belief right now that this will not be the case. But I understand that they demand that we fulfil the mandate we once gave them in NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162353	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162354	I don't understand. So there are a number of NATO countries that have chosen not to contribute to this. It is probably Denmark's free choice and the alternative's free choice, if you think it is a wise act. I would just like to hear from the alternative whether the alternative really means that the Baltics will be safer because they are experiencing a arms race between Russia and NATO, which is taking place right on their borders. It's not the Enhedslisten's experience at all. And if we want the Baltics well, we have to stop this arms race and ensure disarmament. But what does the alternative mean?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162431	Today, Denmark's security policy is bound up with NATO cooperation. As long as it is so and there I have not heard Enhedslisten or other parties come up with complete models for us to ignore it at the moment, because we do not have strong enough European cooperation in this area, nor is Nordic co-operation strong enough. I would say that we need to support NATO in particular. Denmark and the alternative must, when we are allowed to choose, back up such a situation of such action here, because it is hopefully peacekeeping. Then it can be said that it is also stairwelled, but it is not a real war effort. We are not going in and being aggressive, but we are going in and then we support what we have promised in NATO cooperation. And this is the kind of task I have the easiest way to back up when we send out Danish forces to create security. We do not necessarily provide certainty that the Baltics will be safer, but we certainly do not do the opposite.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162521	I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, and the next one is Mr Beazley. Kristian Hegaard, the Radical Left, who is hereby given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162531	Thank you. At its summit last year, NATO decided to establish an advanced presence in the Baltic and Poland, and the Folketing is hereby required to give its consent to this. In concrete terms, our contribution to the advanced presence will be made in Estonia with Britain as a framework, and it is no secret what is, like, the reason for this. That, of course, is Russian behaviour. In this respect, we strongly condemn both the Russian annexation of the Crimean Peninsula and the Russian appearance. It is never fun to have to take a position on such an advanced military presence as we are doing here, but we must also recognise that this is happening as part of the alliance we are part of and as a faithful alliance partner we support the advanced presence. However, it is possible to discuss the real difference between this advanced presence. It's probably not something that makes Putin shake his pants or even hesitate. And you can ask yourself whether we are creating a calmer environment or the opposite. Because, although it is a defensive action, it is probably not an action which, as such, creates less conflict escalation. But we must go into it as the faithful alliance partner, we are in this strong community. We also note with satisfaction that the additional costs are, of course, borne within the defence framework and, of course, we hope that the presence will be as short as possible. Unfortunately, however, there is no evidence of general Russian restraint at the moment. Once again, it must be stressed that this makes clear the need for increased action against espionage and cybercrime, because the efforts we are going to make here will be very much the subject of both espionage and cybercrime as well as these so-called honey traps. We have full confidence that the talented Danish officials can resist this, but it is just to outline that these are very important challenges that we have to face in the future. And that is something we must meet with more knowledge, expertise and dexterity both at home and abroad. So with that I can say that the Radical Left can support the motion for a resolution on Danish participation in an advanced presence in the Baltic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162814	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162821	Thank you to the radical rapporteur, to whom I have a question. In other words, there is nothing easier than starting a war, and there is nothing easier than embarking on armament. But in order not to go anywhere that you do not want, you must always have an idea, before you start a war, of how to stop it again. And you always have to have an idea, before you start a conflict escalation, of how to bring the conflict back down again. That is why I have just one question for the Radical Left: if now the reaction to sending some forces to the Baltic with all the good arguments put forward by the radical rapporteur will be that Russia will respond with further escalation, what is Denmark going to do in that situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162917	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162918	Thank you. That is a fine question to ask, and it is quite relevant, but it is probably too early right now to draw such conclusions about what might happen in general and forward-looking terms etc. Just as we will have to decide on the extent to which this presence is to take place on a regular basis, we will also decide on how and how any new situations might arise which, of course, we hope will not arise. So it is an ongoing reflection that is taking place, and we must see how it is going.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162953	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502162956	In other words, I think it is a good answer that the radical rapporteur gives, because it accurately reflects what all the other rapporteurs who have spoken suggest, in other words, that we do not know what we are doing. You have no idea. One hopes: we send some soldiers, and then we hope it will work out. And you have no answer to the question: if it doesn't work out, then what? Worse still, it has not even been considered. Yeah, well, I suppose the Ministry of Defence and the Minister have done a lot of thinking, but it's just not considerations we've been involved in yet. But as Parliament, we have no consideration. I think it is absolutely inconvenient to embark on such a project without having any idea what is the next step on the board.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163048	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163049	First of all, I would like to thank you for the congratulations that I have made for making a very good remark. Thank you. In addition, I would like to say that I think it is a little bit of a strawman who is being fired off in relation to the fact that no thought has been given yet. It is clear that if you do not know exactly what situation might occur, it is too early to say what exactly should happen. So that is, of course, something to be considered on a regular basis. I think that's the most factual way to go about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163122	There was just one more question. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163126	That really is a response to what the radical rapporteur said about it being a strawman. I ask what the consequence can be of sending out Danish troops. I don't think it's a strawman at all. After all, we have seen that NATO has previously conducted troops and fighter aircraft, including the military. also Danish, up to the Russian border. The Russian response has been increased armament, which is why it is by no means irrelevant to ask what the Radical Left expects to be the Russian response? Will the Radical Left support a further military escalation if Russia chooses to do the same? As I see it, there is an enormous danger to it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163217	Thank you. I said'strawman' because it was presented in such a way that no one has given any thought to this very serious subject. I know that this is a subject that many take very seriously. It is never for fun, as I also said when it comes to having an advanced military presence. To say that no one has considered what should be done in the future is a strawman. Everyone has taken a very important look at this very important area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163250	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163252	It may well be that a lot of thought has been given to what could be the consequence, but no one has said anything so far in the debate. And the situation is that this is very, very serious. In other words, we are in a situation where there is an atom-armed NATO on the one hand and a atom-armed Russia on the other. And we are at the suggestion of the government sending Danish soldiers to the Russian border. There is therefore a danger that this arms race will ultimately lead to conflict, and frankly I do not think it is too much to ask that those who are in favour of sending Danish soldiers have some idea of what this could lead to from the reaction of Russia and that they have made some thoughts that they will share with us about what will happen next. Otherwise, we risk groping completely blindly with something as dangerous as a nuclear war. And I think most of us can see that is quite unwise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163348	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163351	I do not think anyone has emphasized the seriousness of the situation, that is to say, the specific situation, but also the seriousness of the military presence which is now taking place here. And the reason why we agree with this is because what is really needed to have an international legal order and a good order is that there are large bodies such as NATO. We see an advantage in this, and that is why, as a faithful alliance partner, we can see that this is the path we must take in dealing with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163429	Thank you. There's one more question. Sir. Peter Juel Jensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163432	A quick question: I would like to know whether the rapporteur agrees with the Enhedslisten that it is Russia that has to decide whether to place units in one of the Baltic States or in Poland, or whether it is the Baltic countries and Poland themselves that decide who they want on their land and in which security organisations they take place. Do you, as a small country, have to put up with the idea that a large neighbour should be able to decide such a thing, or do you, as an independent country, have the right to choose for yourself? Is it not basically solidarity that we are sending out to help the Baltic countries and Poland?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163513	It follows from the general rules on international law, in relation to having jurisdiction and sovereignty on one's own territory. So I think that is clearly in relation to international law as regards the competences of one's own territory.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163536	I think the rapporteur has made this very clear, namely that what we are essentially sending soldiers to ensure is that the big man in the schoolyard should not be able to bully the smaller ones. I guess it's basically about freedom and the right to choose for yourself. Does the rapporteur not agree with me on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163554	I fully agree that freedom and the right to choose for yourself are quite fundamental principles and something we must promote in any context, including in an international society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163608	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Then we have reached the SF's rapporteur, Mr. Holger K. Nielsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502163621	We support this proposal. It is basically about Russia, about a Russia that is becoming increasingly nationalistic, expansionist, which is, in particular, a problem that has affected neighbouring countries to Russia. We have seen it in Georgia a few years ago, in Ukraine, we have seen the Russian attempts to intimidate countries in what Russia sees as its sphere of interest and, in general, Putin's approach to international politics and his neighbours. It is obvious that the Baltic countries in particular, but also Poland, with the historical experience they have, are very, very nervous about the expansionist policy that Putin stands for, which is part of the Putin ideology and fundamental concept of security. They are afraid of it, and I also think it is reasonable that NATO, at the request of the Baltic States, decided at the time to send an increased contribution of strength to the Baltic States to reassure the Baltic States. I think that is fair enough, and that is why we support this too. It is clear that there must also be some reflection on whether this could mean an uncontrollable development; there will be an arms race. Russia has said they will react, but I must also say that I do not believe that this is what affects Russian armaments in this sense. The Russian armament is part of Putin's policy, a completely fundamental part of his policy. And that's why this is more of an excuse for being able to continue an armament than is the reason for it. At the same time, we also agree that disarmament is of course better and that it is, of course, better that we try some disarmament agreements, including in relation to Russia. It is excellent if we could get European policy going again, in other words a European disarmament agreement. But it takes two for a tango. And again, this is a lot about our analysis of Russia. How do we analyse Russia? Okay, the Danish People's Party has its analysis of Russia as a friendly country. Enhedslisten has his analysis. I simply think it is illusory to believe, as it is at the moment, that disarmament is just around the corner. We have to try it, we have to work on it. I fully agree with that. But this is about being able to react quickly in a situation where Russia and Putin will try to impose their expansionism on other countries. This isn't about a big war. This is about what Russia has done in Ukraine, for example. I do not believe that Russia will attack the Baltic countries militarily because they are NATO members. I don't think they will. What you can fear, and what they are afraid of, is that you go in with destabilisation and then start cutting off areas or sending in troops, irregular and regular troops, as has been done in Ukraine. A repeat of Ukraine's situation is what we are afraid of. And there is the point that if you are to avoid it, you have to have forces that can throw the Russians back right away, to put it plainly. If they first establish themselves in a Ukraine-like situation, then it is a frozen conflict. If you're going to solve it, you're going to have to use stronger means. That's when you can be forced into an escalation. So I think it is quite important that we have the capacity to avoid it escalating from the beginning and that this could be a major reason why Putin is not doing this here; a preventive action, if I may say so. I think there's some sense in this. I admit that it is not without problems, of course. There are risks in what the FE has also pointed out in this, but I think it is basically true that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164109	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164114	I must admit that I do not quite understand what is SF's position here, or rather what is SF's solution. The starting point is that Putin is fundamentally expansionist. Okay. And then Mr. Holger K. Nielsen: He would do it anyway, he just wants to use it, that NATO sends forces to the Baltic, as an excuse. I quote Mr. Holger K. Nielsen, and I am quite in agreement that he will use that as an excuse. For what? To gain support for its expansionism. Exactly! Is it our job to give Putin support to his expansionism? What is SF's idea of how we undermine the Putin regime? That's what's interesting to discuss.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164215	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164215-2	This isn't about undermining the Putin regime. I would like to discuss it on another occasion, because I fully agree with that. What's my point is that this doesn't happen from time to time. This is about the balts. It's about giving security to the balts, as they've asked. That's the point of this. It's something they've been asking for. We can certainly discuss the problems involved, but I think it is fair that NATO should then step in and then support the Baltics in it. I think there is good military reasoning in that too, as I say, by avoiding a frozen conflict that we have had in Ukraine, by throwing out, if I may say so, those Russians who are trying to go in and intimidate and create a frozen conflict like that in Ukraine quickly, because if they are not thrown out quickly, they will have to use tougher means at a later stage or not do something that is the case in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164316	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164318	After all, the problem in Ukraine was that there was a part of the Ukrainian population that supported the Russians. That's right, isn't it? It was not the case that Russian tanks were pouring in from one day to the next as in Hungary or Czechoslovakia; that was not the starting point. The starting point was that there were people in Ukraine who took control of some areas that then got Russian help or who might have had it from the start. That is why the main task must be to say how to avoid people in the Baltic countries feeling that they are in a situation where they can get more out of allying with Russia. I guess that's the main task. I have a very, very hard time seeing how this contribution of sending military forces to the Baltic is going to solve that task. Perhaps it will not do so at all, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164415	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164416	I mean, sir. Søren Søndergaard underbtones it that the Russians go so actively into Ukraine. The Russians had a very large share of responsibility for what happened in Ukraine. We're agreed on that, okay? It was not just that some Ukrainians wanted to be with the Russians, because the Russians were working actively and nothing could be done, and we cannot do anything now because it has become a frozen conflict. That is what is likely to happen in the Baltic, and that is far, far more serious for several reasons: on the one hand, it is a NATO country and, on the other hand, we have some special interests there, and it can make everything explode even more than it has been in Ukraine. That is why I think it is important that we have a capacity to quickly dismantle Russian desires to go in and cause trouble, as has been done in Ukraine, with all the risks that are then in it, it is clear.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164531	Just one more came up. Sir. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164534	As I see it, there is a huge problem in relation to what can be said, the history of relations between Russia and the Baltic. Well, I understand 100% that the balts are scared. It can be said that the Russians and Putin are playing the same thing to the people: the fear of the Second World War, now they are coming out of the West again. There is such a history on both sides that makes one fear one another and where one sees it as a counter-response to build up arms and potentially stand ready with weapons so that one can come into conflict with one another. That is what I see as an enormously dangerous situation which, at worst, can get out of control. And that's where I have a lot, very hard to see what it even helps to send more weapons to that border. In other words, would we not help the Baltics any more if we were to actually engage more heavily in achieving mutual disarmament? For right now, the situation is that there is an armistice and that no initiatives are being taken for disarmament and resolution of the conflict level.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164643	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164644	Well, at least I agree with the latter, I totally agree with that. But like I said, it takes two for a tango. If you see what the Russians say and do, then there is no indication that they will disarm not at all, on the contrary. So it is a completely deliberate policy that they are arming up. Nevertheless, we must work for it, and I fully agree that it is important to keep that track warm and that we are still trying as much as possible, as we are doing around the Arctic, to talk to the Russians, to negotiate with them. But as I see it, it is extremely difficult in relation to the Russian armament in various areas, also because it is part of the whole Putin's raison d'être; it is part of the whole basis of his power in Russia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164738	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164740	Well, I'm not a second in doubt, sir. Holger K. Nielsen is right. So, Putin needs a conflict with NATO to sit in power in Russia. I think that the problem with the proposal put forward by the government here, which the SF will unfortunately support, is that he is being apologized to a great degree. And I do not think that we should give Putin any excuses whatsoever, either to arm up or to remain in power. On the contrary, I want him to go where the pepper grows and I want him to be deposed by the Russian people tomorrow. What I'd like to ask, sir. Holger K. Nielsen on, is how Mr. Holger K. Nielsen believes the Russian minority in the Baltic countries will respond. In other words, this will not exactly be an excuse for Putin's propaganda to incite the Russian-speaking people of the Baltic States, and will it not exactly be a catalyst for what Mr. Holger K. Nielsen feared could be Putin's strategy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164838	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164839	I would say that it is the Baltic countries that have wanted this, in other words the Baltic governments. It is true, then, that there are minorities, including in the Baltic countries, which are part of the political debate in the countries concerned. I certainly believe that Putin will do anything to incite the Russian minorities and probably use this too. I have no doubt about that. I certainly think it is an argument that can be used against this; I am in favour of that and I recognise what Enhedslisten says there. I just do not think it is strong enough if what I consider to be more likely is actually happening, namely that Russia is beginning to pursue a more active, military interventionalist policy vis-à-vis the Baltic countries. Then it is important that you can turn that policy back very quickly • very quickly • both to avoid it escalating further, but also for the sake of the people in the area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502164957	Then we thank the SF rapporteur. Since there was a little confusion or inaccuracy about the order of the start of speakers to this point, we are now starting over, but without anyone who has spoken it again. We start with the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165016	Thank you. Colleagues have examined the motion for a resolution, so I shall not do so. Sir. Holger K. Nielsen also seems to me to have said very precisely a significant part of the background, namely the whole fear that is also in the Baltic countries and in parts of Poland in relation to the past, so I shall confine myself to a few fundamental considerations. It can be said that this is an expression of the fact that we are implementing the decision taken at the NATO summit in the summer of 2016. We are contributing by the fact that NATO troops are now coming in all the Baltic countries and Poland. We're contributing 200 men. We do so in cooperation in Estonia with the English, as we are used to. There are all the reservations that need to be expressed regarding Red Card Holder, international law, etc. etc. So all that is quite good, and that is, I would have liked to say as it should be in such situations. Then why are we doing this? Why does NATO choose that decision? After all, it is only because Russia has shown increasing aggressive behavior. Crimea speaks for itself. Kaliningrad will be speaking, I believe, on a very specific issue over the coming months and years, and what is happening in the Baltic region, moreover, with violations of all the international obligations which we have, moreover, in the way that, among other things, we have. military aeroplanes, etc.; We are working, plus the regrouping of troops that has taken place into the borders of the Baltic States and Poland. That is exactly the answer to why NATO acts as they do. Let me then, here where I have a little speaking time, use it in itself to give answers to the Enhedslisten, who, I think, is trying to make this appear as if they are the voices of the righteous in this Assembly. So far, all the parties that have spoken have agreed to the motion for a resolution, with the exception of the Enhedslisten. The problem lies, I think, in the way I have heard Enhedslisten ask questions, and it is that we do not do anything, because then Putin will probably find out how to fall into the teat. When NATO has chosen to act as they are doing now, it is precisely on the basis of the decisions that Putin and Russia have taken for a number of years now, and there is a complete absence of that recognition. If one were to follow the Enhedslisten, we should continue to accept that Russia took such steps to where it might end up. Now, I think, NATO is choosing very precisely to say that this is not going to continue, and that is why we are now taking the decisions that have been so accurately explained here, and that is exactly the opposite of what I think the Enhedslisten is arguing for here, namely to say to Putin: Enough is enough and there is somewhere where we do not put up with it anymore. Then I shall conclude by saying that one of the steps I think we can face is that we can see Danish troops being exposed to false news. We have seen some examples of the fact that German troops have been, and that is why I just have to call on both colleagues and the press when we get the first example of false news being presented, that we all breathe very deeply for a moment, until we just find out whether this was false or true before we act in condemning everything else. However, as I said, the Social Democrats support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165352	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165357	Thank you. The question is, is this gonna help? Well, that is what is basically the discussion we have today. And there I would just like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dam Kristensen, if he believes that Putin is dropping missile deployment in Kaliningrad, due to the fact that more NATO troops are now coming along the Russian border.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165420	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165422	I know that we can be very rhetorical, and a counter-question could be: Nikolaj Villumsen, that not doing anything helps? So far we have done nothing, and then there has been an escalation from Crimea to what is going on in the Baltic Sea with the regrouping of troops, etc. So the answer is, in fact, that until now NATO has not responded, and all that has happened is that Russia has stepped up the area by area, day after day, I almost said. So that's kind of the answer to Mr. Nikolaj Villumsen's question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165458	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165500	It is not true that nothing has happened. As I also said in my rapporteur's speech, targeted sanctions have been imposed on Russia against the background of the annexation of Crimea and the aggression that has been carried out in eastern Ukraine; this is something we support on the part of the Enhedslisten. NATO has actually sent more troops to the Baltic in the Baltic Sea and sent fighters earlier. At that time, there was no Russian escalation that we were informed of in the Defence Committee. There was no Russian escalation along the Baltic border. The Russian response has then been this modernisation, as they call it, of their missiles, i.e. the deployment of missiles in Kaliningrad. So there's a build-up going on right now on both sides of the border, and the question is, does it stop with these new Danish soldiers who have to be sent off?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165550	No, but I would like to quote Nikolaj Villumsen. I think that we in the Danish Parliament broadly share the wish that this should not escalate into a violent arms race. We have seen that; we are some who are as gray at the top as I am and who have even experienced it a little bit at the nearest level. We do not want that to be repeated. My point is that I don't believe that the Russian people's soul exists, that if you just let go, then they'll add to it at some point. I think that a very precise indication is needed, and that is what I think this resolution is an expression of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165622	Thank you, therefore, to the rapporteur. And then it's Mrs. Marie Krarup, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165630	In the Danish People's Party we support the resolution to send soldiers to Estonia. We do this because we think it is important to show solidarity in NATO. It is important to reassure the Baltic states. At the NATO summit in Warsaw, the decision was taken to show strength while at the same time having a dialogue with Russia. That dialogue is important and if you reassure your alliance partners, as we are doing now, by having a stronger presence in the Baltic, then you will have more opportunity to have a sensible conversation with the Russians. And that is what can, in the long term, bring about peaceful cooperation. That is why the Danish People's Party supports the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165735	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165740	Thank you. Something that I have been thinking about very much and to which I would like to hear Mrs Krarup's reply is: How can the Danish People's Party support, on the one hand, that Danish soldiers are sent to the Russian border, where there is a potential risk of conflict, and, on the other hand, that the EU sanctions that will allow arms, state-of-the-art and technological weapons to be sold to Putin and thus potentially have a situation where Danish soldiers come into conflict with newly purchased weapons from Europe? Is it not an unwise policy, and how can it possibly be linked?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165823	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165824	Yes, that is what I am asking myself, in other words, how it can be linked in the rapporteur's head, because I do not see the context either. We are against sanctions because they are meaningless. The Russians are not going to give Crimea back to Ukraine because we are making sanctions. If you want Crimea back to Ukraine, you have to go through a third world war, and we will not. That is why the sanctions are useless. When we support the fact that we are here in the Baltic, what I said is to reassure the balts' nerves, so that they can understand that they are full members of NATO and that we support them. But it also requires them to be able to conduct the dialogue with their opponents or their great neighbour, whom they fear. That is why it is so important to reassure them and convince them that they are full members of NATO.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165927	If EU sanctions are lifted, it will be possible for EU countries to sell state-of-the-art weapons to Russia. Is it really the policy of the Danish People's Party that Danish soldiers should stand in Estonia along the Russian border and see that state-of-the-art European weapons are coming into Saint Petersburg? Is it really fair to the Danish soldiers who are being sent off?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502165950	Russian defence is in the process of modernisation and professionalisation, an update, and it will continue, whether we send people to the Baltic or not. The Russians have a desire to restore their strength from many years ago. It's gonna happen no matter what. That's not what's threatening us. Russia's strength does not threaten the Baltics or us, it is more chaos and weakness, there is a threat that can emanate from the Russian territory. But the Baltics need to feel like full members of NATO. This is what we're gonna show you. It's very important for us to have that conversation with the Russians. And it is the conversation that gives a peaceful world in the long term. Weapons don't give a world of strife. We must also have a strong defence ourselves, just as the Russians are in the process of creating, just as the Baltics are in the process of creating. Any country that wishes to maintain its sovereignty must have a strong defence. It's not the same as being aggressive with your neighbors. These are two quite different things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170105	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. Then we have come to give the floor to the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170119	Thank you. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the debate here in the Danish Parliament, and I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for broadly expressing their support for a Danish contribution to the progress made. The reality is that the security situation in our neighbourhood has become more complicated. Russia's illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula, hybrid acts of war in Eastern Ukraine and armament in Western Russia are a new security policy framework. Europe and the whole alliance must relate to this, and Denmark must relate to it. Denmark therefore supported the decision to establish the advanced presence in the Baltic States and Poland, which was taken by NATO Heads of State or Government at the NATO Summit in July 2016. The decision came in response to Russia's escalating efforts and the more complex security situation. The advanced presence is designed as a defensive, situational and proportional response to the security situation in the region. The aim is to demonstrate alliance solidarity with our allies in the Baltics and Poland and to make it quite clear to Russia that NATO is watching over Article 5 of the Washington Treaty, the so-called musketeered. There must be no doubt about NATO's determination. An attack on one Member State is an attack on the whole alliance. This is the foundation of NATO's credible deterrence and of security in our part of the world. In order to clarify NATO's alliance solidarity, it has been important from the outset that the advanced presence consisted of a multinational structure with a broad circle of participating countries. We have succeeded. Since the NATO Summit decision, 20 of the 28 NATO Member States have indicated that they will contribute. It sends a strong signal and shows the strength of NATO's unity. At the same time, it is important to stick to the fact that defence and deterrence in our approach to Russia go hand in hand with openness to dialogue. NATO has been working for two decades to establish good relations with our neighbours, including Russia. That ambition will not be changed by the advanced presence. NATO will continue to seek dialogue with Russia. There is now a need for the Folketing to give a commitment to support a Danish contribution to the advanced presence. I hope that there will be broad support for us in Denmark to stand together with our eastern allies and contribute to the advance of our presence. In conclusion, I would like to highlight three arguments for this. Firstly, it is in Denmark's interest to ensure peace and stability in our neighbourhood. By participating in the advanced presence, we will emphasise to our Eastern allies that their security is very close to our hearts. Secondly, the advanced presence will be a defensive and proportional response to Russia's action. In other words, we keep the door open for dialogue and instability, but at the same time show solidarity and determination. That balance is crucial. Thirdly, the Danish contribution underlines the credibility of a NATO based on solidarity, which is the cornerstone of Danish security.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170459	Thank you, Minister. There is one person who would like to make a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Nikolaj Villumsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170459-2	Thank you. So far, when NATO has sent soldiers or fighters to the Baltic and along the Russian border, it has been matched by Russian escalation. Does the Foreign Minister also expect this to happen this time, yes or no?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170520	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170521	I expect what we are doing here to have exactly the effect that has been proposed, namely that we prevent an escalation of a conflict.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170532	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170534	So that means that the Foreign Minister does not expect him to come back and ask the Folketing to send extra soldiers because there has now been an armament on the Russian side, which in turn needs to be matched, or what? Because we are in a situation where the Folketing has previously decided to send soldiers and fighters to the Baltic and along the Russian border, and this has led to an armor from the Russian side, and now there is an armament from NATO. Does the Secretary of State expect this to end here? Is this the last time to send extra Danish soldiers to the Baltic?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170614	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170615	I do not think there can be any guarantee of that. But what we are discussing here today is whether we should contribute to the advanced forces in order to ensure that there will be no escalation of a conflict. Of course, no one knows exactly and can predict a hundred percent how the Russians act. We know from historical experience that once they have entered, as they have done in Ukraine, the situation is very, very complex then it is very, very complex and difficult to roll back it is clear. What we must avoid is that we get into that situation, and we do so here with a proportionate, balanced response, and I think that will also be understood and taken down in Russia. So we are also doing so on the basis of massive support for this, for example. The Baltic countries have therefore, I have seen figures in relation to the Russian-speaking part of the Estonians, where approx. 50% also thinks this is a good idea.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170722	We thank the Secretary of State. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the proposal be referred to the Defence Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170741	The debate is open and we will start with the Foreign Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502170815	Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution. I can say straight away that the government does not support the resolution and I will explain why that is the case. The issue is of great importance, and that is why the Heads of State or Government of the European Union have also placed the handling of the matter at the heart of the guidelines for negotiations with Great Britain, which the Member States of the European Union have just adopted at the European Council on 29 April. The issue of citizens' rights will be dealt with as part of the divorce. That is to say, it will be part of the negotiations that will take place under Article 50 of the Treaty. The guidelines specify, on the rights of EU citizens and British citizens who have used free movement to and from the UK, that the EU-27 wants reciprocal guarantees for the rights of these citizens to be a priority in the negotiations. In this respect, it is stressed that the guarantees should be non-discriminatory and enforceable effectively. It is clear that we are interested in an early agreement on this issue. The government and a broad majority in the Folketing fully support the EU-27 line and want the issue to be an essential part of the early negotiations on an Article 50 agreement. It is quite clear from the guidelines adopted by the European Council, the Heads of State or Government of the EU-27, that there should be no separate bilateral negotiations between the individual Member States and the UK, as this could undermine the EU's negotiating position. Denmark has been involved in adopting these guidelines and is therefore fully bound by them. Between 25,000 and 40,000 Danish citizens are estimated to have used the free movement in the EU and have settled in the UK. The UK does not have a population register, which is why the figure is, of course, subject to some uncertainty. Approx. 17,500 Britons live in Denmark. From the early work of the Brexittaskforce, the government has been actively involved in the cover-up of issues relating to the rights of these citizens. It is a question of concrete human fates which should not be unduly caught up in the UK's decision to withdraw from the European Union. This is of great importance to our companies, which have many employees in the UK and are dependent on clarity on how they are dealt with with Brexit. It is a priority for Denmark and it is a priority for the EU-27. I also note that in their letter of notification on the implementation of Article 50, the UK itself expresses its desire for an earlier agreement on the rights of EU citizens in the UK and British citizens in the EU. I must also point out that in their resolution on Brexit, the European Parliament has put the citizens' issue at the top of the list of important issues that should be resolved first in the negotiations. Finally, let me repeat that the government does not believe that Denmark should negotiate issues of citizens' rights bilaterally with the UK. The negotiations must be carried out by the EU-27 negotiating with the United Kingdom, as laid down by the guidelines, and I believe that Denmark's interests are best safeguarded by doing so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171137	Thank you, Minister. One brief question from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171142	About one minute, so it's short. Now leave the question of the Council, which I shall come back to in my rapporteur's speech. But I would just like to ask the Minister: can the Foreign Minister envisage any negotiating agreement or, for that matter, any non-negotiation agreement, that is, a breakdown that will not make it necessary to make an agreement on the citizens of the European Union who live in Britain and from Britain who live in the European Union? Is it even conceivable to imagine that it can have any impact on making such an agreement?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171218	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171220	What is our starting point in the strategy that we have set out and which is why we are putting ourselves, as we are doing in relation to the resolution, is that we have assessed how best to achieve a good agreement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171234	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171236	What the Foreign Minister is saying is, in any case, that the citizens must be taken hostage in trying to get a good overall agreement, because if in any case it is the case that an agreement has to be made for that group in any case, regardless of what one can agree on in terms of inheritance and debt and the future and the whole mess, then one can just negotiate that agreement first. That is precisely what the European Union has rejected. That is why I ask and want to ask again: can we even imagine any outcome of negotiations or any break-up of negotiations which is going in any way to block an agreement for these citizens?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171317	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171318	We believe that, in this area too, we will secure the best possible agreement by leading the EU-27 trail and pursuing that path. That is the way in which we stand best in the negotiations that are coming, and it will also include the best possible agreement in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171335	Then we thank the Minister. The debate is therefore under way, and the first in the series of rapporteurs is Mr Beyer de Ryke. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171355	Thank you. And thank you for the floor, President. I can be relatively brief, as there is no doubt that we have sympathy for the proposers' intentions with the proposal here, but, on the other hand, we also think that it is very, very early in the process at all to talk about Denmark taking an independent negotiating position and starting bilateral negotiations on the rights of our citizens. For us in the Social Democratic Party, it is important that the 27 remaining countries of the European Union stand together and stand closely together for a solution for a proper withdrawal from Britain. This applies both to Britain's future links with the internal market, but it also applies to the rules that must apply, to the free movement of citizens and to social rights, etc. Against this background, we are also opposed to this motion for a resolution. We simply think that it is several rounds too early to require the government to work for this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171454	Thank you. Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171459	Now I am sure that the Socialist rapporteur has noticed that there is a transitional period, because a transitional period is something you do in a transitional period, so until something else happens. That is why I would like to ask the Socialist rapporteur: how can it in any way take anything from the EU's negotiations with Britain in this area or in some other areas, that Denmark makes a transitional arrangement with Britain in 5 or 10 years? It does not matter where it is said that the conditions that today can continue, so that the citizens concerned can have the assurance in their lives that this will be the case in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171546	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171548	But it doesn't really take anything from anyone. We just have the political position that we are best looking for the agreement achieved jointly with the other 27 countries, because in fact we believe that all 27 countries and, hopefully, the British will be the strongest. Although it is difficult to hear from Westminster and from Downing Street right now, one must think that it is in everyone's interest to find as good a solution as possible, and that is what we think is best achieved by the fact that the 27 countries are united in the negotiations that need to be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171620	Well, I do not think the Socialist rapporteur is answering the question. How can such a transitional regime prevent the EU-27 from uniting? In other words, the EU-27 should not negotiate a transitional regime. The EU-27 must negotiate a permanent arrangement. How can such a transitional regime prevent the EU-27, including Denmark, from negotiating a permanent regime that will apply at some point?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171646	We must also assume that the European Union ensures that there is a proper transition to the rules that are now to apply, firstly. Secondly, I simply do not believe that it is fruitful for a proper course of negotiations in which the parties do not speak further away from each other, but closer if there are to be 27 bilateral negotiations on 27 different transitional arrangements. And right now, unfortunately, I think that the parties are talking further away from each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171709	Thank you to the rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502171721	Thank you, sir. President. In the Danish People's Party, we understand the reasons behind the motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution. It is clear that there are some implications for Danish and British citizens of the British withdrawal from the EU. Having said that, we are not sure that it is the right answer that Enhedslisten gives to the challenge. First of all, even if this proposal should go to the Folketing, it is far from certain that the British will take up the gauntlet at all and open bilateral negotiations with a single EU country on the situation of their two countries. I believe that, as things stand at the moment, the British would prefer a common agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, and I do not believe that the British would like to go alone at this stage either. Next, it is also at the heart of the Danish People's Party such on the longer track, so when you look beyond this proposal, that Denmark should have the right to decide which foreigners are staying in Denmark. And that also applies to British citizens. We have, for example. the fundamental desire for the free movement of workers within the EU area to cease, although I must be honest and say that I do not think it is British citizens who are giving Denmark the greatest challenges in this respect; but then British citizens may be able to present challenges in another respect. It is certainly a fact that there are quite a lot of people, including with relatively radical views, and that is not meant in the sense that Mrs Zenia Stampe represents ^ who has acquired British citizenship and which we hardly benefit from getting to Denmark. So it is not necessarily the position of the Danish People's Party that British citizens, after the resignation of the EU, should have access to work in Denmark. As a starting point, it is a good idea that they should be covered by the rules applicable to all kinds of other foreigners, such as that, in order to get to Denmark and work, you should have a job at a certain salary. However, as I have said, the starting point of the Danish People's Party is that this proposal probably does not in fact have any time on earth, and certainly not in the present situation, where we are only at the initial stages of negotiations with the British. If at some point this should be the case, then the Enhedslisten or other parties can table this proposal again, and then we can have a debate on it. But at this stage we simply do not believe that there is a will or a desire from the other side of the table to be part of this, and then it is relatively futile to adopt it here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172021	Mr President, there is one brief comment. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172025	Thank you. It's just to understand, sir. Kenneth Kristensen Berth's view correctly, Danish People's Party policy correctly. Does this mean that the Danish People's Party takes the view that there should be no transitional regime for the people who have settled in our respective countries in a belief that there were some very specific rules that applied? Well, that applies, for example. 30,000-40,000 Danes who have settled in Britain. What we hear from the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party is that it would actually be okay if they were just thrown out of Britain overnight.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172117	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172119	No, it is not our view that there should be no transitional arrangements. It would, of course, make good sense to make such a transitional arrangement. But at the end of the day, it is the British or us here in Denmark who have to decide what to do with these people. But basically we do not believe that the British will give priority to a question of making such a transitional arrangement for Denmark if we come and ask for it. Sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen mentioned this question earlier: in case all countries came and did it. In other words, it would certainly be something that would also cost power in Britain. And we simply do not believe that there is any interest in raising this matter from the British side, as it is now. This does not mean that there can be no such interest at some point. It may well be • and then, of course, we must seize that opportunity. But now it is pre-empting the course of events with an otherwise very negative one, it may also be that there is reason for this to be the starting point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172226	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172228	We shall see what Britain wants. That is something that will be clarified when you make a request from the Danish Government. We know that the British Prime Minister, in a meeting with Junker, knows this from documents leaked in the Commission, had suggested that this issue should be resolved as early as July. And then Junker had probably turned up a loud laugh and said that it was completely ridiculous that it could not be clarified at all, because it would take much longer. So what the British want, we'll see. But I am glad that the Danish People's Party stresses that, yes, there must be a transitional period. The people who have settled under certain conditions are not deprived of their rights overnight. Then it is just that I believe that the conditions with which we can best live are the conditions we best determine in the Danish Parliament. But there we can then have different views.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172321	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172323	I'd like to say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, that it is a little bit to put words in my mouth. Because the point is that if this were a burning wish of the British Government, we would probably support the Enhedslisten's proposal, but we do not have the impression of that. At the same time, I would like to say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard, on which there is also important importance, namely that, as regards the question of the order in which the EU negotiates the various outstanding issues with Britain, I believe that the Enhedslisten and the Danish People's Party are very much in agreement that the order that has been put down is not the right order and that it is not the order that means that we will get the best possible result.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172402	Thank you to the rapporteur. We'll move on, and then we'll get to mr. Jan E. Jørgensen to get the liberals involved. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172415	Thank you. I do not think there are shock waves going through the Chamber when I say that we in the Left are extremely sorry that Britain has chosen to leave EU cooperation. Brexit is a bad thing, and although the decision is soon one year old, it is as if I are constantly becoming aware of new complications and difficulties that arise as a consequence of Britain's withdrawal from the European Union. These are not just political difficulties, they are also challenges for large international companies and, above all, as the resolution here today is about the fact that a great many citizens are in danger of getting into trouble. Brexit has created serious and real consequences for many real people. So the intention behind the resolution is sympathetic, but I do not agree that bilateral agreements between Denmark and Britain are the right way to meet the challenges. The issue of citizens' rights is very important, and it is for all parties to these divorce negotiations, or what we should call those that are going on between the EU and the UK, which are happening under Article 50 of the Treaty. These are divorce negotiations, which are therefore not conducted separately between the Danish Government and Britain and the governments of the other countries and Great Britain. These are negotiations that are taking place with all the other EU countries and the Commission, what we call the EU-27. And the starting point for the EU-27 is that we stand strongest when we stand together. It should be something that aroused a certain sense of reverence in the ears of a socialist, cohesion makes strong, and so we are not embarking on individual negotiations with Britain. Individual negotiations will weaken the overall negotiating process and undermine the EU's negotiating position. Denmark's interests are thus best safeguarded through a strong and unified European Union. I have stressed several times in the past that it is a priority for the Left that we get through the negotiations in a proper way. We have a great interest in maintaining good cooperation with the United Kingdom and, at the same time, ensuring as much security as possible for those citizens who, in other words, are caught up as a result of Brexit. But it is not the answer, then, that we split up, that we are being driven in between the individual countries and we are each going to negotiate partial agreements with the British. Instead, the issue of citizens' rights must form an essential part of the early negotiations on an Article 50 agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The scenario of bilateral agreements will not only conflict with the EU-27 guidelines, but will also create great confusion in an already complicated negotiating situation. Against this background, I must inform you that the Left absolutely cannot support the proposal, although we naturally share the intention to do something for the British who are in the European Union and the Danes who are in Britain.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172725	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172731	That is because I just feel the need to remind the rapporteur that citizenship is something that is in Denmark; it is not something that is in the European Union. And the Danish citizenship and the things associated with it are, of course, a legal reservation, not an EU competence, but a Danish competence. So in any case, a Danish agreement must be made with the United Kingdom, that is to say at some point; it is certainly certain. But what I actually took the floor for was to hear: how long does the rapporteur of the Left think this thing can go on? After all, there has been a negotiation process in which things can mutually block each other. What if we do not have a solution in two years' time, when the formal date has been exceeded, or if it is extended to four years, let alone talk about what some have been talking about, namely that there will be a breakdown so that there will be no collective agreement? In other words, is there no limit at all to when the Left goes in and says that it is perhaps very reasonable for Danish citizens living in Britain and British citizens living in Denmark to have a little security under their feet?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172840	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172842	I think that's what you call a hypothetical question. In any case, I can say as much as we have not yet reached that limit. In other words, we have barely started the real negotiations. However, what has come out of this summit the other day is that there are three main priorities for the EU-27, which is that the estate should be made up, that is to say the economy; that we should safeguard citizens' rights, that is to say those that the Enhedslist talks about in the resolution here; and that we should have secured the situation in Ireland. It is therefore a top priority, so I have no expectation whatsoever that a solution should not have been found within the time limits set by Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Søren Søndergaard sets up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172920	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502172923	After all, we can see that there is already a great deal of disagreement between Jean-Claude Juncker and the British Prime Minister about the speed. In other words, Britain has wanted this to happen quickly, and the European Union has rejected it. And the people we are talking about sit on a daily basis and have to decide whether to buy a new car, whether to buy a new apartment, or whether to have a new job. These are problems they face every day, that is to say now, and I think it might be a little nice to say that we are far from that time. For 1 or 2 years in a person's life means relatively much, so when you don't know where you can settle down. That is why I think it is perhaps a rather nonchalant view on the part of the Left. But the Left can then deny it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173014	It may not come as a surprise that it is not a characteristic that I will sign. In other words, can we not just agree that Britain remains a member of the European Union and that Britain also remains a member of the European Union after having activated Article 50? And that is why there are no changes for British citizens in the rest of the European Union, and there are no changes for Danish citizens in Britain. There is not for a period of at least two years. So there's no reason for these horror scenarios that people don't know if they've been bought or sold the day after tomorrow. I mean, for two years, nothing happens.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173056	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments, and then we go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173108	Thank you very much. I fully agree with the proposers that the issue of safeguarding the rights of citizens affected by Britain's withdrawal from the European Union is extremely important. I therefore fully share the intention of the motion for a resolution, namely to ensure that there are British residents and Danes living there, and also other European citizens, a clear legal basis for their future life in Denmark, Great Britain or other European countries. However, I completely disagree that bilateral negotiations are the way forward. I think that we should be careful at all to believe that there are very easy, quick solutions to the complicated negotiations between Britain and the remaining EU-27 countries that lie ahead of us. As the Liberal Alliance sees it, we in Denmark have a clear interest in sticking to the strategy that we ourselves have been involved in adopting together with the other EU countries, namely that we are negotiating together. Here the issue of guaranteeing citizens' rights is a core issue and we have every reason to contribute to a result that ensures that citizens who have adapted their lives after we have freedom of movement are left as free as possible. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173225	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173233	Many years of close and binding cooperation are not easy to abolish overnight. There is a lot to be found out, and there is, of course, also in relation to the brexite negotiations. One of the really big things is, of course, the citizens who are very closely involved in this and who need to find out how their daily lives are to be linked. That is why, in many ways, it is also a relevant issue raised by the Enhedslisten with this motion for a resolution. The alternative cannot support it for many of the same reasons that have been mentioned by several other parties. I would also like to point out that now the Parliamentary successor group has also had a number of meetings, both in England, Scotland and Brussels, and what we hear unanimously from all parties that we are talking to in these negotiations is: we need to find out how to secure the citizens involved. So I am actually very confident that we will, of course, find very good solutions between the EU-27 and the UK and that, of course, the lives of the citizens involved have been put very high on the agenda so that we can find out quickly. If this does not happen within two years, I am also sure that we will have some transitional arrangements, because everyone is interested in this, whether you are head of government in Britain, President of the Commission or Chief negotiator of the Commission.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173408	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173418	I'll be brief. Nor can we support the proposal, mainly for the reason that it is a debate which falls within the scope of the general brexite negotiations and which is being negotiated in a single European Union. Then I actually find it rather difficult to see the premise, that is, the argument that it may be that this debate between the European Union and the United Kingdom is somehow deadlocked and that no solution can be found. I find it rather difficult to see why it should be harder to have an agreement between the European Union and Britain, which is two sides to each other, than an agreement or a negotiation between Britain and 27 countries. If we embark on such bilateral negotiations in various areas, the main thrust will then be even more pressured. After all, Britain has only one government that can conduct those negotiations, so if they are to conduct the negotiations on a main track and at the same time negotiate with 27 countries, I think it will be difficult to achieve it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173531	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173534	Now it is quite right, as Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist said that everyone is saying that this is a very important issue which needs to be resolved very quickly. Has Mrs Zenia Stampe considered why we have not taken exactly this question into a completely independent pool to solve it completely alone? So, I assume that at least the Radical Left is in complete agreement with the Enhedslisten that people should not be taken hostage and that the question of people being allowed to live on the basis of the conditions that have existed is not something to be addressed in all sorts of other negotiations. So what is the reason why we have not taken it out as a completely independent debate, started with it, restored some confidence and then moved on with all the other problems?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173621	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173622	Well, there are many issues to be negotiated, many important issues to be negotiated in Brexit. There are other things that are as important as this. I do not understand why it should be taken out and run in a separate course. Well, divorce is a lot of things. That is why I do not think it is unnatural for it to be negotiated with all the other important issues. I cannot understand this picture of taking people hostage, i.e. being taken hostage if it is the European Union that is negotiating, but not if it is a bilateral negotiation. Actually, I don't understand that argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173703	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173704	Thank you for your answer. We just disagree. For us, the question of those 3-4 million people is an absolutely crucial problem that must be resolved first. Whether Britain's pension obligations should go 15 or 22 years into the future, we believe that we are a less important thing than the everyday life of those people who, like Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen said that sure will be safe in almost two years' time, but as in the day-to-day situation, decisions must go far beyond two years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173739	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173740	Well, it's an incredibly unfortunate situation we've ended up in, and we wouldn't have ended up in that if the British had voted differently. But that's the way it is, and it's the way it should be, sir. Søren Søndergaard may think about the next time he relates to a vote on whether to be inside or outside the EU. I really think it is a rather absurd situation that it is for Mr Seligman to do so. Søren Søndergaard right now is about how to retain rights negotiated within the European Union, as Mr. Søren Søndergaard is opposed. Isn't that absurd? Actually, I think it's a tiny bit.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173817	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. There are no more brief comments, and we go further in the rapporteur's report to Mr Vandemeulebroucke. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173835	I fully agree with the fact that this resolution addresses an important problem, but we cannot support it because it goes against the negotiating strategy that has been adopted. And that is why I do not think it makes much sense to adopt a proposal that we should go on our own and go in and then divide the course of negotiations that has been agreed between the EU countries. Now to make some polemical observations on the Enhedslisten, I would say that it is a little like going back to the time when we negotiated the Finance Act with Enhedslisten, when I was in government it was often quite difficult, if I may say that suddenly, while we were sitting there with each other in the Ministry of Finance, there was someone from the Enhedslisten, Mr. Henning Hylllested or someone else who wanted to make a special deal with us. I don't think so. Søren Søndergaard and Enhedslisten will like the fact that you suddenly cross the negotiating strategy that has been adopted in the party. This can be compared to the fact that a strategy has been adopted between the Member States of the European Union, and we cannot, of course, go in and shoot an arrow through it. We simply cannot.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502173955	Is there a brief comment from Mr. Søren Søndergaard? There is. Søren Søndergaard I would like to ask that there be a technician, because there is something wrong with this microphone). Now I think everything should be okay. Here you go, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502174003	I'm gonna do one of those things. say that I think that Mr. Holger K. Nielsen in his own whim gets a complete illustration of what this is all about. After all, a financial bill is precisely a question of giving and taking and of negotiating. The unitary list wanted something for the unemployed, it did not want it, and the Radicals wanted it to be even worse for the unemployed. That was the game. And it is clear that it was a game and that it was a negotiation. Of course, you couldn't do that, as sir. Holger K. Nielsen suggests. But Mr. Is K. Nielsen the three or four million citizens we are talking about here as part of a negotiating game?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502174054	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502174055	Surely they are, I must say to Mr. Søren Søndergaard. It's a negotiation that's going on. But the question is how to give priority to those citizens. I fully agree that this must then have a hugely high priority in those negotiations, but however you turn it around and talk about it, this is a divorce debate. It's always there in situations like this. This cannot be explained away, although it may be unpleasant to admit it. Of course it is. It is an unpleasant situation and can also be so for those people. I totally agree with that. But it would be totally illusory to ignore the fact that this is a divorce debate. But I fully agree that it must be given a very high priority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502174143	There are no more comments. Well, then we'll thank Mr. Knox. Holger K. Nielsen and goes on to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502174200	Thank you. We also have sympathy, of course, for the proposers to ensure good rights for the citizens who are being squeezed into this. However, in the Conservative People's Party, we also fully support the EU-27 line. We believe that it is important that separate bilateral negotiations between Denmark and the UK should not start, because this would undermine and weaken both the Danish and EU negotiating positions. We believe that Denmark will have a better agreement and that the Danes will have a better agreement if we stand together with the other EU countries. If the EU countries start to negotiate separately, we will all be weaker at the negotiating table, and neither Danish companies nor Danish citizens will benefit. We must remember that Denmark in the large picture is a small economy with limited significance for the UK. The European Union, on the other hand, is a huge player in the market for both companies and citizens, and I therefore believe that negotiating with the UK alone will weaken Denmark's opportunities for a good agreement. On the other hand, when we negotiate with the other 26 countries, we speak with much greater weight. The other countries of the European Union are at least as interested in getting a good agreement as we are here in Denmark. So our call is that we do not start to undermine the EU's negotiating position and that we continue and support the line and negotiating strategy that has already been adopted. Against this background, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502174341	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, and then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mr Beyer de Ryke. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502174359	This discussion is not about being for or against the European Union. After all, it is not about being for or against Brexit, nor is it about what agreement should be made between the European Union and Great Britain. We can have many perceptions of this, and we can also have many perceptions of how Europe could be organised in a different way. That's just not what we're discussing. What we are discussing are some concrete people, in fact millions of people, and those people can be citizens of Britain who have settled in an EU country, or they can be citizens of other EU countries who have settled in Britain. So it is not particularly a question of helping those who voted incorrectly, as was suggested. In other words, it may also be EU citizens who have settled in Britain and who have not been in any votes, but who have done so with the assurance that the rules that applied yesterday, which apply today, also apply for at least some time in the future, so that they can live their lives and take the necessary steps to do so. Britain's decision to withdraw from the European Union has created uncertainty about the future of these people. Whether this makes Britain's decision right or wrong is, of course, up to the voters in Britain to decide. It's not something we should be judging about. But we should of course do our bit to ensure that the period of uncertainty that comes will be as short as possible. We should all be interested in this, and this should in fact be resolved without any particular problems, for example. by guaranteeing that those concerned can stay where they live under the present conditions. Then you can say it's forever, or it's for the next 10 years, or it's for the next 5 years. It doesn't really matter. Any agreement in this direction will help to create security, at least in the near future, for these people, and such an agreement should be possible within an incredibly short period of time. In other words, it is in the same way as it is incredibly easy for Britain to adopt EU legislation, and then, along the way, they can reverse it by virtue of the self-determination they have gained. It's the same way here. It is relatively easy to say that things continue as they are; it is about political will. Unfortunately, however, this is not the negotiating line that the European Union has chosen, either from the start or now. It was another tone that came from the European Union immediately after Brexit, and it is another tone that marks the adoption that came from the extraordinary meeting of the European Council on Saturday, 29 April. A number of things are mixed up precisely in the first negotiations, which are in danger of blocking each other. Because, as the adoption at the meeting states, and I would like to quote: In accordance with the principle that nothing has been agreed until everything has been agreed, individual questions cannot be settled separately. This means that while we have those discussions and we have the negotiators from the European Union who are arguing about who is going to contribute how much to some pension scheme, etc., millions of people can live in uncertainty about their immediate future, even if it would be incredibly easy to solve that problem. In my opinion, it is not just politically wrong, and I will stand by the word I have used, namely that it is such a kind of political hostage-taking. If the European Union has that policy, it is the European Union that makes the political hostage-taking, and if it is Britain that has that policy, it is Britain that makes the political hostage-taking. I don't really care who it is. What matters is that none of them should do so. That is also the reason for this proposal. On 1 January 2017, there were 17,500 British citizens in Denmark and an unknown number of Danish citizens in Britain. They live in this uncertainty and may need such a transitional arrangement. Will this in any way be seen as a breach of commitments made to the European Union? I think we must be absolutely clear there, because there is no question of Denmark giving anything away by such an offer of a debate in this area. It is only a matter for Danish and British citizens, and it is therefore a Danish matter. We do not have European citizenship, we have Danish citizenship, and that is why we can in fact only view it as unfair to the European Union if we believe that the citizens concerned are somehow to be used in some sort of horse-trading. And we will really be sorry if that is the view. We are concerned when we read about the leaks that have occurred on the part of the European Commission, where the British Prime Minister clearly proposes that this with these citizens should be resolved in July and where the European Commission clearly says: no, that is not possible at all. We are very concerned about that. We think it would be a good signal to send out from here that at least we want to solve this problem for our citizens. I would, of course, like to thank the parties for the immediate reports that have been made here. Now we are going to let the matter settle, because we will have regular inquiries and see how things are going. If sir... Rasmus Nordqvist is right that this problem will be resolved very quickly, so it is clear that this proposal is just ridiculous, but if it turns out later that this has not been resolved, then of course it will become more and more relevant. I would therefore like to say that we look forward to continuing the examination of this proposal in committee, and we look forward to focusing on it in the follow-up group, and then at some point we can finally take a position on it in the Chamber. In any case, I would like to thank you for the discussion so far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175029	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175033	I was just sitting around a little curious about how Enhedslisten looks at this. After all, these are negotiations between the EU-27 and the UK, and we know from the EU-27 chief negotiator that this really is a top priority, so if there is no arrangement at all because of some of the arguments I actually heard from the Danish People's Party, namely whether Britain even wants an arrangement, does the rapporteur think that it will be easier to hold a debate between Denmark and the UK to find a solution, or will the Enhedslisten look at how we can just make a scheme for the Britons living in Denmark? Or how does Enhedslisten see that we have to solve it now and here?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175116	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175117	I really have no opinion on that, and the proposal is not about what will happen after the Danish Government has approached the British Government. I can't predict that. I know that in Britain there has been a huge focus both in the House of Commons and in the House of Lords and in the popular movements to get this problem solved. I also know that the government has been a little more hesitant about that. So it may well be that the British Government is saying "fuck" and "jump" so I cannot rule that out and then the British Government becomes part of the problem, but we can only find out if we address them. So the prerequisite for clarification is for the Danish Government to address the British Government. If it turns out that there is a 'no' coming from the British Government and if it turns out that the European Union will not make an acceptable agreement, then it is our view that we in Denmark must stand up to our responsibility towards the people who have come here under very specific conditions. In other words, we must make a reasonable transitional arrangement. Then we can discuss how long it will take, but there must be a reasonable transitional period.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175230	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175232	I fully agree with the rapporteur on this last point. But is the question where we are going to find out where Britain stands, not what is going to take place in the negotiations that are about to start? After all, it was only a few months ago, barely a few months ago, that Article 50 was activated, and those negotiations must start. So is the approach that the rapporteur is talking about, which the Danish Government should address to Britain, not the negotiations that we are going to see and which we are following closely in all possible ways, including on the part of the Folketing? I simply do not understand the timing or the desire for it to be now, when we are just going to see what is happening in those negotiations. And then, of course, we must follow it closely and be obscene to citizens' rights too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175316	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175316-2	The problem with mixing all sorts of different issues together in the first phase of the discussions is that there is ample scope for something to block progress. I'm sure sir. Rasmus Nordqvist has also heard and read the minutes of the meeting between Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Commission, and the British Prime Minister. It wasn't a meeting that actually ended up in reconciliation. And a lot of tripwires have been added, so it may be that you never get to this question. That is why we have proposed that we take it first. That has been rejected. So let us say: Denmark then takes an initiative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175404	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no more brief remarks and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175418	The debate is open. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175441	The Government has chosen to seek the consent of the Danish Parliament for early Danish ratification of the trade agreement with Canada. CETA is a good agreement for Denmark, for Danish companies, for Danish employees and for Danish consumers. The free trade agreement with Canada will eliminate almost all customs duties on trade in goods, i.e. about 98 per cent. In addition, Danish companies will have better access to the provision of services and bid for public procurement on the Canadian market. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs estimates that CETA will increase exports to Canada by up to 2.2 billion. kr. annual, and this will help to strengthen the Danish economy. At the same time, consumers in Denmark and Europe will have easier access to competitive Canadian products. In other words, CETA makes a great deal of sense. However, I do not really want to discuss the very content of CETA today. This is what we are doing in connection with the parliamentary debate on the government's motion for a resolution on Denmark's ratification of CETA. Today we will be discussing the private resolution tabled by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative on whether we should hold an indicative referendum on Denmark's accession to CETA, and here the position of the government is quite clear: in relation to the concrete motion for a resolution, B 88, the government calls on the Folketing to reject it. The government sees neither the legal nor the political need to hold a referendum on CETA, and there are several reasons for this. Firstly, there is the crux of the matter: CETA does not involve the transfer of sovereignty under the Constitution. The Government has already clearly stated this with the very detailed written reply of the Ministry of Justice back in September 2016, even quite specifically with regard to the LETT lawyer's note. Secondly, we do not have a tradition of holding indicative referendums in Denmark. On the other hand, the responsibility for decision lies with us politicians in the representative democracy that we have in Denmark. For decades, the European Union has concluded trade agreements on a bilateral basis as a multilateral agreement, none of which has been put to a referendum in Denmark, and I see no reason to change this practice now. Thirdly, it would send a very boring signal to the European Union and our trading partners around the world if Denmark suddenly changed course and helped to question the free trade agenda and the clear benefits it brings to all of us. At a time when we really need to boost growth in Europe and globally, it would be unwise to change that approach. Denmark should instead take the lead as a good example and contribute to the early and full entry into force of these trade agreements. That is why, on behalf of the government, I should like to call on you to reject the motion for a resolution on an indicative referendum. At the same time, I would recommend that we stick to the discussion today on the specific motion for a resolution, in other words B 88, and do not duplicate the debate on the content of CETA itself. As has already been said, the debate on the content of the agreement is already running in its own tracks in the examination of the government's motion for a resolution, in other words B 74, including a very thorough examination by Parliament's Committee on Europe, where a large number of technical questions have been asked about the agreement. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175746	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175749	Thank you, Minister. Now the minister mentioned this, that there was no surrender of sovereignty, and we have also ignored that in this proposal we propose that it should be an indicative referendum, not because we agree, but because that is not what this proposal is about. One can then discuss whether an indicative referendum is relevant. I must admit that I did not quite understand what the Minister said. I understood that it was a very, very important agreement that it was a very, very crucial agreement that it represented a new break and so on, but we have also heard that on other occasions. I remember that one of the last times we had such a discussion was in 1986 about something called the EU package, and it was about the whole single market. In many ways, this is a kind of enlargement of the internal market to include Canada. And then there was a Prime Minister named Poul Schlüter who put out a referendum and gave the people the opportunity to decide whether they would be included in this very important new one. We argued for a "no' vote, but that was a "yes' vote, and we are a good and bad member of the European Union's internal market. So I do not quite understand when this is so important now what it is that with that story makes us unable to take a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175908	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175909	I mean, I do not think I have in this way emphasised anything about the fact that it is a break or anything else. In fact, I pointed out the reverse, namely that we have concluded trade agreements, bilateral and multilateral for decades, none of which has been put to a referendum in Denmark. In fact, that is what I emphasised in my reply.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175927	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502175928	Is not the explanation, in fact, that former Prime Minister Poul Schlüter took a referendum because he could not get the proposal through the Folketing and that the reason why the current government rejects a referendum is that one can get the proposal through in the Folketing? This means that the question of whether or not an indicative referendum is relevant is raised primarily for purely political tactical reasons, i.e. whether or not it is possible to get it through the Folketing, and that it is not raised for reasons of principle, i.e. whether it is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180001	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180002	I do not think it is within my remit to go in and interpret what went through Mr. Poul Schlüter and through the heads of the then government when they chose to issue an indicative referendum. I refer to what I said today, namely that we do not actually have a tradition, although we have an earlier example in another area, in order to hold indicative referendums. I believe, and the government believes, that this is an area fully covered by our representative democracy, which means that it is the responsibility of the Folketing. We are entering into a large number of trade agreements, both bilateral and multilateral, and have done so many times without wishing us to have indicative referenda in this respect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180046	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180048	Thank you. I do not want to catch the same place as Enhedslisten's rapporteur and start talking about tradition. In fact, I just wanted to ask the Minister whether, just because we do not have a tradition, this is an argument for not having an indicative referendum. Is it not also an area in which we could perhaps say: how can we try some tools to create the popular anchoring of the EU project, which I know the Minister is also concerned with?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180114	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180114-2	Now, in fact, I emphasised three arguments in relation to this: firstly, that CETA does not involve a surrender of sovereignty; and secondly, that it has not been used as a main argument; secondly, that we do not have a tradition of having it in this area; and thirdly, that, on the part of the government, we also believe that it would send a boring signal to the European Union and our partners around the world if we started to drag things out. In fact, we want the opposite. In fact, we want to ratify this agreement as soon as possible, because at the moment winds are blowing around the world, which is against free trade, and we want more free trade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180150	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180152	Now I know that the Minister is probably even better informed than I am, but I am certainly informed that more of these ratification processes are only going on in the autumn in the remaining EU countries. So if we want to hold a referendum here, it does not have to drag on for the other EU countries, which are, after all, far behind us in this ratification process. That is also one of the reasons why we have pressed for proper time to deal with this in the Folketing. But since this agreement is so far-reaching and large, can the Minister not at all see an idea that we are actually getting people involved in it as part of an inclusive democracy, as a complement to representative democracy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180232	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180233	No, I have to say that my conclusion is that in this case I do not see this as an argument which I believe is essential for us to choose to support the proposal. I believe that there are far more weighty arguments for going the opposite way. Of course, one can always argue in favour of extending and opening the debate, and the referendum tool is one of the tools one can use. However, with regard to the specific issue we are talking about here, I do not think that is a crucial argument.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180301	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. We are going to start with the rapporteur's speeches, and first, Mr President. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180323	Thank you for the floor, President, and also thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. I do not think it comes as a surprise to the proposers that we in the Socialist Group are opposed to the proposal. This is not because we are against democracy, nor is it because we are against the involvement of the people in important discussions. It is simply a matter, as the Foreign Minister also mentioned in his speech, that we agree with the assessment made by the Minister for Justice, namely that this is not a question of surrender of sovereignty. On the other hand, as both authors of the motion know, we have very warmly supported the idea of ensuring that we have a proper treatment of Denmark's accession to the CETA agreement throughout. We have a hearing tomorrow, which I and several others in the Social Democratic Party are looking forward to, and we have also given plenty of time for discussions to take place and, as such, also public discussions. When we are in favour of the CETA agreement, it is because, as we have already discussed, Denmark is a very, very small country that needs to have an open economy and if we are to ensure what is the social democracy's objective, namely that we have full employment, then we also need to have proper and solid trade agreements with countries to which we can sell our goods. It is exports that create most of our jobs, and that is something we want to keep to. That is why we are also satisfied with the agreement itself. There is no doubt that elements can always be discussed and how things can improve in the future, how there can be better fuses, etc. However, we are particularly pleased with the new version of the dispute settlement mechanism, namely the ICS model, which is something that is being used as an argument against this in the motion for a resolution, rather than the model that has been used in the past, namely the ISDS model. So, against this background, the Social Democrats cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180513	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180515	I would like to start by saying that the rapporteur is absolutely right; it did not come as a surprise. However, I would like the rapporteur to confirm that the fact that we may be holding an indicative referendum on what the proposal is about in September will in no way delay the ratification of CETA. The Swedish Parliament has not even begun its examination. They do not begin the examination of the agreement until they meet after the summer break. So I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that a referendum, whether it be before or after the summer break, will by no means delay the ratification of CETA.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180559	I can confirm that. However, I do not recall using my argument that it would delay Denmark's accession and thus the ratification of the CETA agreement by the whole of the European Union. And it is for the same reason that I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that we, among other things. at the request of Enhedslisten, but also at your request, has supported giving the agreement a proper time for discussion in the Folketing and that we have a public hearing tomorrow. Hopefully, there will also be some journalistic interest in this whole agreement, which in our opinion is at least one of the better trade agreements concluded by the European Union when compared to a large number of the other agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180642	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180644	That was not a comment on the rapporteur's speech either. It was just as much because we're using this treatment to clarify how the positions are. I think it is an important clarification that the Foreign Minister is completely isolated with his view that it will delay the ratification process of CETA. It has nothing on it, and I am glad that the Social Democrats support that position. But again: if the Social Democrats now think this agreement is so important and that it is important to have a good time, what is the reason why we should not take a referendum? Is it merely a matter of tradition, because it is not a question of surrender of sovereignty? After all, this is an indicative referendum we are proposing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180727	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180728	It is simply that we think that we live in a country with representative democracy where people go to elections every four years or when the current government wants there to be elections. And we are confident that Mr. Søren Søndergaard and the members of the Enhedslisten take these discussions on behalf of their constituents, just as I hope that our voters trust us. I think they do now. And that is what we are doing here in Parliament. We have no need to hold indicative referendums in time and early. This does not mean that we will at any time write off that there may be a question where it may be a tool, but it is not a method that we as such are in favour of.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180806	Thank you, sir. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Kenneth Kristensen Berth, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502180827	Thank you. I'm sorry I'm late. I thought I'd spotted that mr. Rasmus Nordqvist had pressed the button, but he didn't. That's the way it goes. As you know, Parliament has dealt with two previous occasions with proposals for a free trade agreement between Canada and the EU: on the one hand, a proposal for the temporary entry into force of CETA, in which the Danish People's Party considered that entry into force would have to await the final ratification process in the national parliaments and, on the other hand, the first reading of the ratification of CETA, which the Danish People's Party welcomed. Here, the Enhedslisten then puts forward a proposal for a referendum on CETA. The Danish People's Party is basically in favour of holding more referendums than is the case today. We have, for example. for many years advocated a referendum on Danish immigration policy. The question, then, is what is the definition: what is the real purpose of a referendum? I think it can be said in this way that, in our view, there are two things that do that are a matter for a referendum. One is the issue of surrender of sovereignty, and the other is, if a question is very intrusive to the individual Dane, that a vote in this House may be very intrusive to the individual Dane. And, of course, there are also provisions in the Constitution on how to have a referendum. There are, for example: the fact that the famous 60 members can trigger a referendum, as was the case in the case of the land laws. I can then understand from the Enhedslisten's proposal that the main reason why you want to submit a referendum to CETA is this question of an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism. It is also the case that a similar mechanism appears in other investor-state agreements concluded by Denmark, and they should, by their very nature, also have been sent to a referendum. This should also probably have been the case with Denmark's accession to the Convention on Human Rights, the Convention on Refugees and a number of other conventions to which Denmark has acceded. They also bind Denmark and even considerably more than the investor-state dispute settlement mechanism does. I would actually go so far as to say that these conventions are far more far-reaching. For example, the citizenship convention requires: Denmark to grant citizenship to persons assessed by the secret service is a danger to the Danish Empire, in other words, a convention that forces Denmark to incorporate dangerous persons into our community. I have never heard the Enhedslisten plead for referenda on the conventions, nor the alternative, but it is probably because the alternative is a new party. I'm sure sir. Rasmus Nordqvist is fully involved in a referendum on the Convention on Human Rights or the Convention on Refugees. I don't really know what an alternative to this ICS system that Enhedslisten has imagined. Of course, there must be some form of legal opportunity to settle disputes in trade agreements. And when, at some point, an agreement is to be reached with Britain after its withdrawal from the EU, there must probably also be an investor-state dispute settlement mechanism in such an agreement. For Britain has clearly said that they will not recognise the European Court of Justice as an authority, as the European Parliament has otherwise demanded, and I understand that as such. I understand that the British believe that there should be a neutral legal system to settle disputes, just as I also understand that the Canadians want it. The question then is: if you cannot conclude a trade agreement like this with the country outside Europe, which looks like Denmark most of all, perhaps with the exception of New Zealand, with whom would you be able to reach an agreement? Whom should you trust? I know that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative will answer that it has nothing to do with Canada, but that it has something to do with the companies that are likely to take legal action, and there I have to say that, after all, I have a little more confidence in this system. If one day in the future Denmark should be challenged, I believe that Denmark will win the case, because we are doing our work well. As you know, the Danish People's Party has asked a lot of questions about this agreement, and the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are also doing so these days. We have, of course, as Mr. Peter Hummelgaard Thomsen also mentioned a hearing tomorrow, and we look forward to it. We look forward to hearing the contributions that are coming, and then we shall see what time comes when we shall eventually have to take a final decision on this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181329	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181333	Thank you. As always when the rapporteur makes a speech, I sit and griffon a lot of questions, and then you have to pick some out at the end, right? First, I was wondering: are you mad at the Danish People's Party because you have not had a referendum on the Convention on Human Rights, and then you do not want a referendum on this? Or is it because the Danish People's Party does not agree with Commissioner Malmström that this is the largest and most far-reaching agreement with the status of gold standard in trade agreements? I take the words for good when the Commissioner says them in the Parliament's Committee on Europe; then I trust that it is so far-reaching and large. And I feel that when it is so big and far-reaching an agreement, why should we not take the public debate that a referendum can bring about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181424	I don't know if sir. Rasmus Nordqvist did not listen to what I said or about Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist had prepared his question in advance, because I did not say that we should not have this referendum. I have not indicated here that the Danish People's Party necessarily intends to vote against the proposal put forward by Enhedslisten and the Alternative. I have indicated that we must look at the time. We have to listen to the things that come at this hearing tomorrow. We need to look at the many questions that Enhedslisten and the Alternative have asked, and the many answers that the Danish People's Party has already received, and then, when we have done our job, we will take a position on this question. But I have not said that we are necessarily voting against the proposal put forward by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181513	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181515	I have listened very carefully, and the rapporteur himself can see that with the pen I have grilled my notes from the rapporteur's speech down on various agendas. I understood the rapporteur not to be in favour of this. I heard that the process was to be waited for, and that is why I asked in as I did. But what does it take for the rapporteur's party to say so specifically that it is now far-reaching? Is it the question of sovereignty, or is it precisely the importance this agreement will have for our society, and hence also for the workers and the individual citizen who live in this country?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181548	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181549	I find that very difficult to give Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist such a very clear answer to, although I would like to. And this is, of course, because the CETA Agreement is a very comprehensive agreement. This is also one of the reasons why we have asked so many questions, as we have already done in the course of the process, that we should deal with the agreement here in the Folketing, and now also with great interest awaits the answers to the questions put by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. That is why I cannot now, although I would like to, give Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist a clear answer to that question. But we do not rule out the fact that we are going to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181626	We are grateful to the rapporteur because there are no more brief comments, and we are going to go on with Mr Beazley's report. Jan E. Jørgensen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502181637	We shall then do so, in other words excluding the fact that we shall be voting in favour of this motion for a resolution. I must also honestly admit that I actually thought that we had finished discussing the CETA agreement in this Chamber after a majority back in March voted in favour of ratification. But we can take another round for the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. Because I actually feel that the opportunities that will be offered to CETA and free trade agreements in general should be welcomed. We must then take this opportunity to praise those agreements and tell us why free trade is so good. After all, this is an agenda which, for strange reasons, has been under attack from parts of the left for some time. For some, the CETA agreement has become an ideological battleground in which globalisation and growth are waged. I think that is really a pity, because the fight you are conducting is hitting the wrong people. The fact is that 31 million jobs in the European Union are directly dependent on trade with countries outside the European Union. The same applies to a very large number of jobs in Denmark. In a small open economy like ours, you are completely dependent on the world around us. Our welfare society is conditional on us dealing with the world around us, but as I have also said in previous discussions about CETA, free trade agreements are therefore about more than wealth and jobs. They are also very much about establishing agreements which will strengthen our political cooperation with other countries and which will contribute to a continuing peaceful and stable world order. Not least, I regret the fact that a party like the alternative has jumped on this wagon and will not recognise the importance of an agreement like CETA. For my impression of the alternative is that it is a progressive party and a globally oriented party, but in this very question the alternative does not, in my view, see free trade in a sufficiently broad perspective. To this specific proposal that we should hold a referendum, I must also say that I am very critical of it. The fact is that in Denmark we have a fairly well established practice for when we hold referendums and when we do not. We usually only do that when it comes to changes to our constitution or to transfers of sovereignty, and none of these situations apply when we talk about Denmark's ratification of the CETA agreement. I have seen and read the lawyer Georg Lett's note... he has been declared an opponent of CETA, but he must be allowed to be... and that he should think that things are different. However, I have to say that I am confident in the conclusions we have received from our Minister for Justice and, above all, his staff of expert lawyers. In other words, I do not see any legal or political basis for us to put the CETA agreement to a referendum. I also think it should be borne in mind that this is not the first time we have a free trade agreement. We have made more than 30 trade agreements since Denmark became a member. And how many of them have we voted on in a referendum? No way! In other words, our agreements with countries such as Vietnam, South Korea and Colombia have not been subject to the same criticism, and there has been no demand for referendums, despite the fact that we can surely agree that these are commercial and labour cultures which are much further away from our own than those of Canada. One might think that it supports the argument that the entire CETA discussion has been driven a little too far out of the left. At any rate, I think that we should stick to the practice we have in terms of free trade agreements and referendums. And with those words, I can tell you that the Left will not support this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182049	There are a few brief comments. It's first, sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182052	One might say that it is an open door to argue legally against a proposal in which it has already been noted at the outset that what is proposed is an indicative referendum, in other words a non-legal one. I guess we're agreed on that. I would like to discuss all those legal matters, and I would very much like to ask a question on this with the rapporteur of the Left. That is just not what is on the agenda here, because this is a proposal for an indicative referendum which is not about anything legal. In this regard, I would like to ask Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen: Jan E. Jørgensen did not say that it was a huge force up through the late 1980s and 1990s, let alone talk about up through the '00s that the internal market, which has created so many problems for Denmark, was adopted by referendum? In other words, it was actually the people who had made that decision. Thinks sir. Jan E. Jørgensen not that it would have caused some problems if it were something that had been run through in the then Parliament by perhaps a single or two-vote majority? That was the situation with regard to the package, if Schlüter had been able to obtain a majority in favour of it at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182209	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182211	I thought we were going to discuss CETA, but we can discuss everything else from the history of Denmark. I agree that the Enhedslisten also agrees that there is no legal legal requirement for us to have a referendum. The fact that we would then have to make some new practice and say that we are now sending this out for a referendum anyway, that is to say, I could find the first 100 legislative proposals that I would think there is more popular interest in than CETA. When I'm around talking about CETA, the first thing people say is, what do you say? Are you saying feta? No, I say CETA. What is it? they say so. Then I say: it is a trade agreement with Canada. Well, they haven't heard about that. So I don't think there's much interest in this place other than that of Mr. Knox. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182307	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182309	I fully agree that this was also the response we met when we voted on the package, that is to say on the internal market in the European Union. When the campaign began, people did not understand that it had any particular significance. Everyone agrees that it has had a decisive influence on how Denmark has developed whether it is for or against it. The proponents of CETA say over and over again how important it is and how important it is, but why should the people not be asked? If this is so important, why not ask the people? And with regard to the agreements with Vietnam and other developing countries, I will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182352	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182354	CETA is a free trade agreement and it is important, like all the other free trade agreements we have concluded. But if we were to put everything that is important into a referendum, then we could not do anything else. In other words, we have a representative democracy and why should we choose exactly to put the CETA agreement to a referendum rather than the sea of other legislative proposals that we have been debating in this Chamber in just the last week? I really don't think it makes sense. With regard to the package back in 1986, it was a fine election campaign. It was a little cold, as I remember, but the result was good, by the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182435	Then it's mr. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182436	Thank you. I have only one question, because the rapporteur makes a good argument for his opinions, and that is fine and our opinions are shared by us. However, the rapporteur compares CETA with all the other free trade agreements that exist. Does this mean that the rapporteur does not agree with the Commissioner who has been sitting and negotiating it here on behalf of the European Union that this is simply the largest and finest free trade agreement ever concluded, only surpassed by what the Commissioner hopes will still be negotiated with the United States? So this comparison between a free trade agreement with some countries that do not have substantial investments in Denmark, for example, and then an agreement with Canada, where we have some really big, very, very rich companies that have precisely the investment opportunities also in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182522	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182523	I agree that CETA is a better free trade agreement than the other free trade agreements we have concluded. That this would then be an argument for putting it to a referendum is an interconnection that I am not quite sure I understand. I have heard two arguments from the opponents of CETA. One argument is that Canada will push down our standards. I give nothing for that argument. So, Canada is a country that is broadly similar to the countries of the European Union. And if there is a divergence between our regulation and Canada's regulation, it is ours that will apply. The second argument is about this investor court: what else do you have in mind? Would investors be completely out of the law if legislation were adopted which unilaterally discriminated against Canadian companies? If we were to make an agreement at a later stage, let us say with Russia, should we just say: Well, but are we going to do that in a Russian court?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182636	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182639	I would just like to comment on the last point: what else is there in the courts? As far as I know, there are well-functioning principles of the rule of law both in Canada and in the EU countries, so there would be plenty of courts if there were not this investor court. But just to get back to what I was asking: do I have to understand that this is just a slightly better trade agreement and that it is not this gold standard, that is, the largest and most important trade agreement the EU has negotiated and what else we have heard as an argument for us to have it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182708	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182709	This is an excellent trade agreement. But why should that be an argument for us to put it to a referendum? One might say that if it was a bad agreement, in which there were a whole lot of problems, then one could say: then let us ask the people whether they think that we should nevertheless conclude this slightly small agreement we have made or whether we should not. It's an excellent deal. But I simply do not understand why this should in itself be an argument for it to go to a referendum.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182731	Thank you, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen. There are no more brief comments and we move on to Mrs Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182741	Thank you. It is rare for the world to be so black or white, but right here I do not actually agree with any of what the authors of the motion for a resolution put forward. I disagree with the problem of investor protection and with the fact that it should constitute such a particular democratic problem. With the same arguments, which are used against the establishment of a court-like body to settle disputes between companies and states, one can argue against, for example: The existence of the European Court of Human Rights, and I do not think that is what lies on the spine of the proposers. It is actually quite trivial: when you make comprehensive and binding agreements internationally, a court is also established to deal with it if a party breaks what you have agreed. The opposite would, in fact, be far more awkward: a judicial ragnarism without a clear body to settle disputes. The argument for holding an indicative referendum is strongly bound up in the motion for a resolution with a criticism of investor protection. We in the Liberal Alliance disagree with that. In addition, a potential rejection of CETA by the Danish side will in my view undermine our credibility as an international partner. Denmark has rightly taken part in the decision to open negotiations with Canada with a view to establishing a free trade agreement. This has been done, and the result is good and complete in terms of what could be imagined at the start of the negotiations. In this situation, I believe that it would be harmful at many levels whether Denmark withdrew its support for the agreement. One must be able to count on Denmark, and then especially when it comes to something as uncontroversial as a free trade agreement with Canada. The Liberal Alliance cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182936	We say thank you. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Rasmus Nordqvist, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502182944	Thank you. When we are co-sponsors of this motion for a resolution and it is actually something we have discussed a lot, so whether this is the right thing to do is because we think a referendum is the right thing to do, because this agreement is so big and so far-reaching. I have been confirmed at meetings with the Commission, and I have also heard it from political supporters of the agreement in several of the debates I have been going to, both from other European countries and from Danes. This agreement is simply so big and has such great consequences. You can then look at it as something positive or negative, but it has major consequences, and that is why we really think it is appropriate to take the public debate and get through an indicative referendum. Then there are doubts about sovereignty, but as the proposal also says, this is an indicative referendum, because there is for and against, and there is a lot of argument about it. But what is most important to us is, in fact, the extent to which this agreement, which we also think is intended to take this referendum on it, so that we can have the debate and also hear what the people think. Indeed, we believe that CETA is so far-reaching and that it will have consequences for both the environment, the labour market, health and so on, which we have also tried to address in relation to the ratification process that has taken place, etc. We can discuss whether this is the right time for this debate and this resolution and whether we should have taken this resolution before we started the ratification process. And that may be right, but it is now today that we are doing it, and I hope that this first reading can be the starting shot. I can start counting on my fingers, and it is certainly doubtful whether this is going through or not, but I think in any case that this should lie in the back of my dear fellow rapporteurs, even when we have that hearing tomorrow on the ICS mechanism, which is one of our real concerns. Then I would like to comment briefly on something that the rapporteur of the Left was talking about, and he was rather sad that the alternative could be against this agreement. This is not about fighting globalisation and growth, but it is about talking about what it really is about growth and what kind of globalisation we want. And we are not comfortable with the way that is described in this agreement, i.e. what the priorities are at the top of the chapters dealing with consumer protection, the environment and workers' rights. There we simply do not think that there is proper security, so that we get the growth we want, and that is what this is all about. Yes, there must be growth, but good growth, growth that is a joy for our environment, for our planet, growth that is a joy for all of us, and not growth at the expense of it. So, of course, we support our own proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183252	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183255	Let's go, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist just help my memory. Wasn't the alternative one of the parties that asked for the two prime minister candidates to give their hand in the next elections that there would be no referendum on the European Union? In other words, in relation to continued membership of the European Union, and that we should not have a referendum, and that was something we should never have done. But is it suddenly very, very democratic that we should have a referendum on something that is very, much less important than full, total membership of the European Union?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183333	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183334	The alternative is included in an agreement that we should not have a referendum on membership of the European Union at this time. This is going to be a non-vote, because what should replace it? In fact, however, there is something concrete about which we can take a referendum. However, I think that the debate we have just had on the debate with Britain shows so clearly that it is not possible to say what we are going to vote for or against membership of the European Union for. 'Cause what's gonna stand instead? And that is why we looked at some other parties and said: should we not ask the two parties who say that they have prime minister candidates, whether we should not hold onto it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183408	Sir. Jan E. Jørgensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183409	So the alternative is that we should have a referendum when we want to vote 'no', and when we want to vote 'yes' we do not think we should have a referendum? That must be the conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183421	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183427	It's a shame, sir. Jan E. Jørgensen also did not listen when the answer was given to the question he himself raised.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183430	We say thank you. There are no more brief comments and we move on to Mrs Zenia Stampe, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183441	We cannot support the proposal, and our argument is also about democracy and a good agreement for Denmark. But this is not just about Denmark, because the fact is that if we do not ratify CETA, there is no agreement. That is why I think that this democratic consideration of the right of Danish citizens to be heard on this issue must also be weighed against the 505 other million inhabitants of the European Union whose governments have followed this process negotiated on their behalf. And there I have to say, I share Mr. Jan E. Jørgensen's observations that there are, of course, other important laws which could then bear the public's view of the matter. It reminds me a bit of not being tricky, but then too being a little tricky old days when you were talking about that when Enhedslisten negotiated, you could never be absolutely sure about it, because it had to go home and be adopted or confirmed on Enhedslisten's Central Board. It's kind of the same thing here. What kind of mandate do we send the European Union off with if we say: yes, we follow continuously and give mandate, but then it may be that we say no to everything at the end of the day. What is our position in the negotiations? What is the position of the European Union in negotiations with other parties? After all, this does not put the European Union very well. This does not, of course, put the fight for high standards in the areas that we are concerned with very well. I therefore believe that a vote, even if only indicative, will not be particularly democratic, nor do I believe that in the long term it will be in Denmark's interest or in the interest of the values of which I believe the Enhedslisten is motivated, in addition to perhaps a general reluctance to free trade, values such as the environment, labour relations, etc. I therefore believe that they are better served by the fact that it is a strong and a united European Union that is negotiating, and not an amputated European Union that cannot be expected in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183654	Mr President, there is a brief comment to be made on this point. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183658	First of all, thank you for the praise that we in the Enhedslist still give our Members some influence in our party. I'm really glad it's being praised from Parliament's platform. Otherwise, however, it was a very fundamental speech made by the radical rapporteur, because it was not really about whether there should be a referendum or not. It was about whether we could allow ourselves to vote 'no' or not at all. So what I hear Mrs Zenia Stampe say is that we cannot allow ourselves to vote 'no' when we vote in this parliamentary debate in the near future.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183735	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183737	I think that was a very strange speech. I certainly think that Mr. Søren Søndergaard can afford to vote no. However, I think that it would be a strange signal from Denmark and the Danish Government if they were to take part in the negotiations and take their mandate continuously in the Folketing, and then in the end it will be sent to a referendum with the possibility that the agreement will be abandoned and the curtain withdrawn throughout the agreement with all the other countries. That's what I'm saying. But Mr. Søren Søndergaard can vote whatever he wants.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183810	Sir. Søren Søndergaard.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183813	I find it difficult to fully grasp the logic of what Mrs Zenia Stampe says, because it is not one government that has negotiated. It is different governments that have negotiated and what that conclusion will be, after all, only be decided when we vote in the Folketing. If the argument against a referendum is that we cannot afford it to the others and that it is undemocratic to say no, then it is surely undemocratic if we in the Folketing say no. After all, negotiations have been held, and the impression has been given, so the vote we are about to have is really quite indifferent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183848	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183850	No, it doesn't matter. That is where we want to reaffirm the positions we have, and it is clear that we will vote in accordance with the mandate we have also given, and I assume that Mr. Søren Søndergaard will do. I think that is credible enough. Then we'll each follow our own line. We become reliable, we can be trusted, we can be counted on. But I do not think that it could be done if we sent a government in the city with a mandate, and then there is a majority in the House who withdraws that mandate and withdraws the curtain under an agreement and 28 other countries including Canada.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183928	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502183929	First of all, I am a little curious about the mandate, because some of what we have discussed is precisely when the mandate for these negotiations has actually been taken. But it is also right to get back to the amputated EU if someone says no. After all, this is a common competence between the European Union and the nation states, which is why the agreement must be ratified in all the countries. It is fair to ratify in the way you want in the individual countries. I'm not sure that every country just nods a yes to this deal. There is not necessarily any indication of this. There is, of course, a great popular debate on CETA in many countries. So is it an amputation that we have this division between something that is purely EU competence and something that is shared competence? How should I understand the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184014	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184016	I think it's fine that you have that opportunity. I think it gives you, what can you say, democratic confidence, that you can pull an emergency brake. However, I also believe that most countries are so sensible that they do not suddenly and unmotivately pull an emergency brake if it does not comply at all with the mandate they have been given and the line they have been pursuing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184046	Sir. Rasmus Nordqvist.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184048	But is it not a problem that changing governments have not actually taken a mandate for this agreement? Because this lack of a mandate is what we have been discussing over and over again. Is it then a mistake for the governments that have been sitting that they have not really gone back in the Folketing with it? We have been informed that there were negotiations, but we have not been given a mandate to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184110	It's a discussion we've had. But now I want to say that we have been following this matter very closely over the last six months or so far over the last year, and I do not have the impression that there is a majority or a large minority and that we are totally wrong in the city. The other rapporteurs before me, with the exception of the rapporteurs of the authors of the motion for a resolution, picture that this is a rather uncontroversial agreement in the Danish Parliament, understood in the sense that a broad majority supports the agreement and does not have the same dissatisfaction over the mandate as the Alternative and Enhedslisten do.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184153	Thank you to Mrs Zenia Stampe. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Holger K. Nielsen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184210	This proposal is not about the substance of the CETA agreement; we are against it. But this is about the procedure that we in Denmark have to use to deal with the CETA agreement, which is why this is all about what kind of democracy we want. Allow me, therefore, to have a somewhat fundamental approach to this. I am in favour of representative democracy. We're in the SF. In fact, we believe that it is a good principle for voters to elect some representatives to the Folketing, who have the opportunity to discuss on a hopefully enlightened basis or a more or less enlightened basis when we discuss these things in the Assembly Hall. I believe that it is important to have representative democracy in very complex cases, which is why I am in favour of it. I am against a so-called referendum democracy. There are also some who propose an Internet democracy, or even more appallingly, a facebook democracy that some have thought of. I am totally opposed to this kind of development. I am in favour of us choosing some representatives. Then there are some valves in representative democracy, some rules that can be used. There are some rules described in the Danish Constitution; there is section 20 on the surrender of sovereignty and section 42, according to which one third of the members of the Folketing can send a bill that has been passed to a referendum to have it rejected by the electorate. This has been tried very few times, but it is an opportunity that exists. I think that the Constitution very well describes how to use referendums in Danish representative democracy. Of course, we can always adopt what we are trying to do here, namely to have an indicative referendum, as Poul Schlüter did in 1986. By the way, we were against him trying to do that at the time, but you can always do that. I think it's a mess. I think that we should stick to the fact that our democracy must be representative and that we should use the opportunities provided by the Constitution for referendums. Is this a surrender of sovereignty in the CETA Agreement? Some lawyers say so. If that is the case, it must, of course, be put to a referendum, but as the assessment certainly is, that is not the case, and that is why it is not going to a referendum. I understand from the comments on the motion for a resolution that it would be useful to have it examined in more detail in a note. We fully support this. There should be no doubt on our part that this should be thoroughly investigated. If one can rightly say that this is a question of surrender of sovereignty under Article 20, then of course we must have a referendum, but we are not in favour of the indicative referendum proposed here by the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184522	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Merete Scheelsbeck, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184531	Thank you. I would like to start by saying thank you. I gave my maiden speech just before, and the tradition was collected faithfully in this Chamber. In this cashless society it was only DKK 5. I do not know whether it is symbolic in relation to the debate we have. But thank you for that. In the Conservative People's Party, we support the free trade agenda in general. We want to strengthen economic growth and development both in Denmark and in Europe. And although this is not about the content of the CETA agreement itself, I would just like to point out that in the Conservative People's Party we believe that CETA is a good agreement for Denmark. It is a good agreement for the Danes, for Danish companies and for Danish jobs. As several have already mentioned several times, CETA does not involve a transfer of sovereignty under the Constitution. This has also already been established in a written reply from the Ministry of Justice to the Parliamentary Committee on Europe last year. However, as has also been mentioned many times, in Denmark we have a representative democracy and this we uphold and a tradition that elected politicians are responsible for making decisions on trade agreements. On the other hand, we do not have a tradition of indicative referendums. We believe that there is a need to strengthen growth in Europe and in Denmark and globally and that it would be a wrong signal to send to our trading partners around the world if we suddenly change course in this. So, in view of this, the Conservative People's Party cannot support the resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184719	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Søren Søndergaard, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502184735	There is an entirely independent discussion about whether there is a surrender of sovereignty. We have not had that discussion today. It comes in the ongoing process. A number of questions have been asked, and there will be more, but I think it is important to emphasise how important this agreement is, why we think it is so important and why there should therefore be an indicative referendum. That is the basis on which the Alternative and Enhedslisten have put forward this proposal, and I would like to mention the three main reasons. Firstly, the Free Trade Agreement with Canada contains this ISDS mechanism. The trade and investment agreement will thus be the first agreement to be concluded by the EU with a non-development country which also includes an ISDS mechanism. All the previous trade agreements, which contain this mechanism and which the European Union has concluded, are with developing countries or countries that have relatively few or no investments in the European Union. Canada is in the top four on the list of countries with investment in the EU. Thus Canada is surpassed only by the United States, Switzerland and Brazil. The fact that Canada has such a relatively high level of investment in EU countries means that the ISDS mechanism in the CETA Agreement will have a completely different and much greater weight and importance than in the previous trade agreements with ISDS mechanisms concluded by the EU. At the same time, the extraordinary thing about CETA is that the neighbouring country of Canada is called the United States, which has major investments in the European Union, even more so than Canada. CETA will therefore open up the possibility that US companies, which have shown themselves to be extremely aggressive in the past in the use of ISDS, through their subsidiaries in Canada, of which they have so many, can sue the EU. The agreement therefore has far more consequences than merely increased trade with Canada. Secondly, Canada is the first developed non-European country with which the EU has negotiated a free trade agreement of this size. The agreement is expected to increase trade in goods and services between the EU and Canada by almost a quarter, and this is according to the European Commission's papers. CETA is, at the same time, the most far-reaching agreement when it comes to services and investments that the EU has negotiated with another country. Thirdly, the TTP, which is therefore on the table, and CETA are the first trade agreements, which include very far-reaching regulatory cooperation, sometimes also referred to as regulatory convergence. It is a process of harmonisation of standards and rules in all areas of competence for goods as diverse as pipelines, chemicals, food, etc., and thus this is also of enormous importance. Of course, it is not the internal market that we are opening up to, but compared to what has been before, it is a really big agreement that will have a huge impact on the future. The meaning may then be positive, and the meaning may be negative. I would say that when we look back at the 1986 package vote, I am convinced that the fact that there was popular support for the creation of the internal market has also helped to ensure stability. But that helped us to say: listen to me, that is something we have adopted. Just as it was agreed that we should join the European Union and so on. It is important that this kind of major decision, which is so important and which everyone agrees is of great importance, is something that is popularly supported. In this sense, I have to say that I think there is a contradiction in the argument that comes from those who reject this proposal, namely that on the one hand it emphasises how important this agreement is with gold standards, and what I know it was almost like when it was presented that Denmark would go bankrupt if we did not become part of this agreement. And when you have to explain why it is not going to a referendum, it is almost because it is business as usual on the other hand. There I would like to say that the argument put forward by Mr. Holger K. Nielsen put forward a more consistent argument against our proposal. You can choose, and it is clear what a majority chooses here. It is, of course, as it is, but at least now we all have the opportunity to deal with this proposal and therefore also, for good and bad, take responsibility for the result that is coming.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502185245	Thank you, sir. Søren Søndergaard. There are no brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the European Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502185300	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 4 May 2017. For a explanatory statement it is now the rapporteur of the questioners, Mr President. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502185322	Thank you. I have simply looked forward to discussing child policy on such a lovely Tuesday evening and the reason why I have it is that we are about to discuss a day-off reform. We have already seen the Minister's initiative, and a lot of opinions have already been marked in the press, but I think it is time that we took a fundamental debate between the parties on what is creating the good early effort and what it is necessary for us to lift more children and break with the negative social heritage and get even more focus on some of the problems that are out there in the day institutions. Because I think there is. Then I will not say much more in the explanatory statement, other than that I look forward to a good debate on how to create a good early effort and how to create a child policy that will ensure a good start to life for children. I shall now turn to the rest of my rapporteur's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502185425	Thank you. Then we go to the answer by the Minister for Children and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502185436	Thank you for that, President. It is tempting to say that the rapporteur for the questioners has been looking forward to today's debate as a small child, but thank you for the question and thank you for the presentation to the debate. And thank you for the opportunity for us to gather together and discuss our work to give all our children the best starting point for life. I was asked to explain how we in the government will work to reduce the importance of negative social heritage. When it comes to reducing the importance of negative social heritage, it is crucial that we put in place early. Unfortunately, we know that not all children grow up with surplus and cozy at dinner. Some families do not have knowledge or profits, and in other families there are major social problems such as crime, violence and abuse close to life. It has consequences, and these are consequences that often pursue children all their lives. We need to be better at preventing this, and we need to be better at preventing it. The day offers play a key role in this, because the vast majority of children spend important years of their lives here. In this context, the quality of daily offers is of great importance for how children develop and manage in the long term too. The project we presented last week is the government's response to how we create stronger day offers, that is, how we get more learning and well-being for all children in our day care, crèches and kindergartens, how we get better at lifting the exposed children, and how we create more flexibility for parents. We have a strong starting point. Denmark is among the five countries that spend most on day-to-day offers, and we spend around 30 billion. kr. annual. Both parents and children are happy with the daily offers, as we know from studies. Parents even have increased satisfaction. And then we have an insanely skilled and committed staff. But challenges still remain to be tackled. Negative social heritage still means much for children's skills at school and for their lifecycles in general. So even if we spend a lot of money in this area, we can spend the money better than we do today for the benefit of all our children. That is why the government is giving our day offer a legitimate attention and we have set aside 580 million. kr. and presented 22 proposals for initiatives. With the day-offer game, we set down among other things. focus on children in vulnerable positions. We're gonna set off 83 million. kr. In other words, each year they are allocated annually to several educators in institutions with many children in vulnerable positions, for more skilled educators in institutions with many children in vulnerable positions. We also propose that 60 million should be spent. kr. is initiated with social interventions focusing on day-to-day cooperation with health care, social workers and parents, in relation to children and families who are at risk. In some municipalities, for example. In Køge, you work with a targeted early detection in health care, and already from the children are a few months old, you work with spotting whether they have problems, for example. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done. The new pool for social stakes can, for example: go to ensure that the valuable information provided by health care is passed on when the child starts on the day offer and that there is overall cooperation on the child's well-being between health care staff and day care staff. Other municipalities work with parent groups, where parents spend a few hours with their children on the day offer, and here, as parents, you can talk to the staff and other parents about their children's development and how best to play with and stimulate your child. It is also a good example of targeted social action, which we want to support and which we want to disseminate. We also focus on learning for children in vulnerable positions. For good, safe and developing learning environments for all children is an essential goal of the playout. All children must meet with positive expectations and experience learning something new. Especially those children who don't have everything with them from home need adults who listen, adults who ask in, adults who initiate challenging activities that require persistence and courage. There must be day offers where children learn to be part of the community and show respect for others both here and now, but also in the long term. With our proposals for a strengthened educational curriculum, we are for the first time ever describing a common direction for work on the well-being, development and learning of children, and we have a solid foundation for day-to-day educational practice, a common language, a clear direction and a pedagogical tool. With the curriculum, we focus on the broad learning understanding. It must be clear that learning in kindergarten, for example, is not just about letters and numbers or just about being a good friend. Learning is about supporting children in their social, bodily, personal and cognitive development, and learning takes place in all situations: in play, in planned activities and in routine situations. Therefore, we need to be even better at creating good learning environments with room for play, curiosity and challenges. And it is, whether it is in the wardrobe, on the walk or at the planned activity of the seasons. This requires a competent staff who can work on the basis of the strengthened teaching curriculum. That is why we are proposing to spend just over 170 million. kr. to a level of competence of staff and management in day-to-day offerings. The knowledge and competences of management and teaching staff are among the most important when we talk about high quality day offers. With the competence promise, we also ensure that the new educational curriculum does not just remain words in a law. It must live in the daily offers, and it must make a difference to the children. The management and staff must be equipped to adapt the common framework of the teaching curriculum to their specific group of children and parents. We also propose that the pedagogical curriculum be implemented in the pedagogic education and that staff and managers receive good inspiration and guidance on the new curriculum. By strengthening the skills of staff and by ensuring access to practical knowledge, we increase not only the quality of the children who are on offer today, but also the quality of the children who will be on offer in the years to come. This is a key step in qualifying the use of the 30 billion. kr. used in the area today. So, to sum up, it is in the very first few years that children learn the basic skills they have to build on for the rest of their lives. Therefore, the daily offers have a big and important task, especially in relation to those children who do not get the best in their luggage from home and who need an extra hand to get a good start to life. It is also an important political task to work for strong day-to-day services and for flexibility for parents. The initiative is the government's response to how we get more learning and well-being for all children in our day care, kindergartens and crèches, how we get better at lifting the more vulnerable children, and how we create better flexibility for parents. I look forward to working together on those objectives. Finally, I would just like to call on everyone to continue the debate and to call for us to continue the good cooperation in this area. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190141	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We shall now proceed to the debate itself, and the first speaker is the rapporteur for the questions put by the honourable Member. Jacob Mark, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190200	Thank you for that and thank you for your reply. When there is so much talk about a subject that we are talking about children in the SF, you can be in doubt about what to say when you stand on the platform. I almost ran out of words about writing the speech, so I was looking for inspiration. That's why I went to BUPL's website and read what they wrote about the alone time survey. They start by writing like this, and I actually think I'd like to start my speech, namely by describing a situation out in a daycare centre on an ordinary day: you're alone in the living room. It's half an hour before your colleague meets. The parents are well in the process of delivering children. More people cry when Dad or Mom say goodbye. At the same time, a child needs to be changed. You know that that child easily gets a red butt, but you still keep the baby waiting, because now there are conflicts over the toy. While you're helping, a child is bitten and several parents are ready to deliver, and the parents who have handed in are then standing there while the children wave goodbye and cry, and you can't be there. This is how the working day started for a teacher on Friday 3 March, and she is among the 75%. educators who, on a random day in February or March, experienced being alone with the entire group of children. I'm going to spend a little gunpowder telling you about those numbers because they mean so much to everyday life out there. 8.006 pedagogues from all over the country have responded in a survey of 75%. of those on a random day have experienced being alone with the entire group of children, a group of 17 children, and the educators were on average alone with this group for 56 minutes. Imagine that: 17 children for 56 minutes. And we're talking about kindergarten kids. Today there are 11 per cent. multiple 3-5-year-old children per year; Pedagogic employee than in 2009, and correspondingly 8%. More in the crèche. There are 4,400 educators and assistants missing from the 2009 level, and the most worrying thing is that we are going to have some pretty big problems in the future if we do nothing because there will be a shortage of 9,400 educators according to population forecasts. For there will be 58,000 children. Then why am I saying all these numbers? Well, I do, because it is deeply worrying if educators, educators and educational assistants do not feel that they can deliver the task in the day institutions. If they feel that they cannot be there for the individual child. This is deeply worrying because we know how important the early effort is and at a time when everyone is talking about the early effort, when everyone can see how important it is with trained staff and trained staff enough out in the day institutions, you are cutting down. It may well be that a day-offer reform is being carried out, and I think it is some excellent measures that appear to be in it. But when you give a day-off reform a little bit of a million with one hand and cut the municipalities with the other hand, you should not have been on a municipal political course to understand that soon to the next budget debate millions of kroner will be saved in kindergarten around the country again, and we are on the same page. Then you can talk so much about debureaucratisation. One can talk enough about cluster management, or one can do things smarter, but basically we just have the structural problem that we have some day institutions where the norms are so scraped that it cannot solve the basic problem, namely that there are not enough adults. I therefore believe that a minimum standard should be introduced, where there is a teacher for three children in the nursery and a teacher for six children in kindergarten, and we are ready for something as unpopular as raising the tax in order to afford it, with an average of DKK 50. In order to ensure that there are minimum standards in the day-care institutions, that there is time for preparation at school and that preventive action can be taken at all. We believe that this money pays off very well because we believe that preventive action pays off. I'm sure this thing with minimum standards will come out in today's debate as well. It is often made such a bureaucratic thing, and it is to take something from municipal self-government, but we would never allow there to be no class ceiling in the public schools. On the contrary, we are constantly discussing whether the class ceiling is being respected. Why is it different in the smallest kids? Why is it that the smallest children do not have a ceiling on how many children there must be for the individual educator, when we know how important the early effort is? That is why I think that with starters perhaps in this debate and the consultation that was earlier today, when I heard that there was a good debate, that the most important efforts are more educators and trained staff in the day institutions, more training and a child environment law, so we have a proper indoor climate for our children. There are a number of parties that are behind a joint adoption text for today, namely the Social Democracy, the Radical Left, the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, and this is how it reads: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that strong daily offers are needed throughout the country to help all children in Denmark get a good start to life and that we can break the negative social heritage. All children have the right to be part of healthy and developing children's environments where they can develop their curiosity, language and trust in other people. The Danish Parliament also notes the need for a quality improvement in the country's day nurseries and kindergartens, including better standards and a higher proportion of trained staff, so that all children can be met by a present and professional staff. • B 92).
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190745	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further negotiations. There is a brief comment from Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190752	Thank you to the SF for having raised this debate and for fighting with us to get some more educators. What I'd like to ask you is, where does SF find the money when they say you have to pay fifty more in taxes? So who's gonna pay 50 kroner? more, and how much does it pay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190811	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190812	Well, we are proposing to raise the income tax for everyone, and it will be the case that the recipients of cash benefits, i.e. those who have the least income in this country, with our proposal, will pay in the vicinity of DKK 20. a month for this; an average LO wage will pay approx. 50 kroner, while a director who pays top tax will pay approx. 200 kroner. This is something we know from other political debates. After all, it has also been included as part of the financing in relation to, for example, the situation. This is not a problem because we would like to abolish a tax. We feel that this is just as important as it is, and that's why we think you can raise the tax on this. In fact, we also believe that it pays itself home. In England, you talk about something called preventonomics, that is, you can create an economy where you prevent and invest in previous interventions, and in the long term it can pay yourself home. So we actually expect that within ten years you can put the tax back down, because prevention has paid itself home. This model is also known from Sweden and from Herning. The Herning model invests in early efforts to see the return coming home later. We think we should do the same in Denmark. So we actually have in a slightly modern language called it a welfare contribution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190924	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190925	So how much should the tax be increased, and what will the total amount be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190934	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502190934-2	The plan acts among other things. to increase income tax. These are two parts with which we are financing it. One part is the temporary welfare contribution and the other part is the fight against tax evasion. The share of income tax is 1.7 billion. kr., and then the part about tax evasion is approx. 3 billion kr., and it is then in an overall plan where we also set aside more money for health care professionals, for preparation, for free psychological assistance, for upskilling, for working environment, for all possible parts that have to do with preventive efforts, where we think you can retrieve the proceeds later because you prevent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191007	The next question is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191010	Thank you. Thank you, too, to the rapporteur for a good speech. I could not hear that in the text of the proposal for adoption, which the rapporteur read out, there was something about minimum standards, and now the rapporteur has talked a great deal about minimum standards. Is it true that the opposition as a whole could not agree on a text in the proposal for adoption that we should have minimum standards in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191036	I think it is fairly well known that there are a number of parties in the opposition who want minimum standards, and then the Social Democrats have said that they will not. For me, the most important thing is that the red bloc should be united in order to recruit more educators, even after an election. So for me, it has actually been important to find common ground among the red parties on upgrading in our day institutions, because it is so important. But that does not mean that we will not fight for minimum standards. I also know that Radicals are fighting for minimum standards, and that is then someone other than the one SF is fighting for. I believe that Enhedslisten is fighting for the same thing that SF is fighting for, but the most important thing in this is that we are united in hiring more staff and that we are raising the proportion of trained staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191117	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191118	How crucial is this for the SF? If, after a parliamentary election, you have a majority in the red bloc and have to point to Mrs Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister, how crucial is this question of minimum standards for the SF? Can you imagine going to a government where there is no mention of minimum standards in the government base?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191140	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191140-2	I think we will discuss that at the time. However, since I believe that minimum standards are the most used political words of a member of the SF, I can tell you that this will be crucial, just as it was crucial for the Liberal Alliance with top tax relief. Now it has become popular to make ultimate demands, but I do not want to use that expression for a requirement that costs 2.4 billion. kr. I can say that it will be absolutely crucial that more money be set aside for more educators, and we also succeeded in doing so when we ourselves were in government and had 750 million set aside. kr. to it over a few years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191207	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191214	It is a little to follow up on what Mrs Laura Lindahl says, because that is quite essential. When you stand on Parliament's platform and say that these are the things you want to work for, is that what Denmark and the educators can expect if there is a new government with Mette Frederiksen as Prime Minister? I think it is a duty to explain to the electorate whether that is what you promise.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191238	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191239	If I had all political power over both the Social Democracy, the Alternative, the Radical Left and the Enhedslisten, I do not think I would be here. Then I'd be out drinking champagne, 'cause shut up, I'm sorry, I mean, no, we're gonna do a lot of good things with this country. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is just to say that it depends on what the parties can agree on, but I can say quite clearly that the SF is going to fight hard for this. We did so before the last elections, but unfortunately it was the blue parties that gained power and then there has been no investment in this area since. I look forward to sitting at the negotiating table after an election and fighting for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191313	Thank you for your attention, Mr President. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191318	It can happen to all of us. But the 750 million. Unfortunately, in many municipalities, kr., from which the Red Government was put down, went directly into the municipal coffers. Now there's a call from the government about 580 million. kr., which is a little more earmarked. Can the SF not see the positive tactics in it and then let us meet there instead of fighting over the one thing that separates us, namely minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191345	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191346	I am sure that we can meet if we are invited to negotiations, and then we must quickly distribute that money for good purposes. But that's change compared to what's needed. It is also small change in relation to what the Red Government dropped off. So we put a total of 750 million. kr. of alone to upgrade. Yes, it is true that the first 500 million. kr. were not earmarked. I myself sat as a councilman and fought for them to go to the children's area, but there were also municipal savings. That's why my point about minimum standards is the way it is. We need to set a ceiling on how many children there must be for each adult. Otherwise, it will be difficult out there because there is just a fight for money in the municipalities, and it has not improved by putting new savings on them in the time of this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191425	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191427	Thank you for the rapporteur's speech and also thank you for raising the debate, which I think is very important. What I would like to ask a little more is what the previous rapporteurs have also asked about, namely the economy of SF's visions in the day-to-day supply area. The rapporteur also mentioned something about the incredibly important fact that more money is also being allocated for better staff training. Can SF lift the veil on how much more money SF thinks should be spent in that area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191502	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191503	First of all, I believe that it is in fact an independent objective to have minimum standards introduced, and the provision of money for minimum standards is above all above all a desire to increase qualification in the day-to-day institutions. However, I think it is very good that this is part of the proposal put forward by the Minister, and that is something I would also like to fight for in the future. However, if I am to be quite honest about the visions in the area of day-to-day provision, which are also some of what we are talking about today, I think that the problem of too many children for too few adults is so urgent that it is over, for example. Upskilling.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191537	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191538	Okay, so it's not like SF has set some amount of at least how much to spend, that is. Is it possible to provide better qualifications for employees? And if the rapporteur is able to do so, I would like to hear: can the rapporteur say something about how much of the money is going to go directly to the daily offers in relation to the money that will then be found by raising the tax? Because I could understand that they had a lot of different welfare areas to cover. But is there a certain amount earmarked for the daily offers in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191616	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191616-2	No, there's not a certain amount of money set aside for the upgrading of the employees in our plan. There is not, and we are ready to discuss this, but a certain amount has been set aside for minimum standards, because minimum standards cost a great deal of money. There I think we have written 2.4 billion in the plan. kr. That is also why we have had to turn the tax screw. Because we actually think this is a good effort. I think it's 89%. of the Danish population, which supports minimum standards, and we feel quite convinced that if we say to the Danes that they are going to pay a little more, but that in return we make a preventive effort for their children, then everyone will agree that it is a really good investment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191653	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502191705	Thank you for that. I just wanted to make sure that my good colleague came straight down from the platform. That's good. Thanks also from the Social Democrats to the SF for raising a very important debate. I think we can straighten our backs in Denmark over the fact that we have created a model that not only ensures that we are many mothers who can be at work every day instead of caring for children around the whole country, but actually also ensures that the vast majority of our young children experience a daily life where they are not just being cared for, where they are not just preventing them from getting hurt, but where they have actually been created with a targeted framework where they are developed, where they are stimulated and where there are well-trained, skilled educational staff who know how to handle small children to the best possible extent, and how to make them grow and thrive. I think it's a huge victory. We are one of the only countries in the world that has done this way, and when we say abroad that our young children are being cared for by people with bachelor degrees, they can hardly understand what we are talking about. We have to protect that. It speaks for a high proportion of trained staff, but it also advocates that we keep an eye on whether the framework is good enough. I would like to sign that the government is launching a debate, and I would also like to sign that you think learning is more than our very young children being little schoolchildren, but that you are actually talking about, for example. Free play as an important part of a day. I also think that the fine words must be followed up by some realistic plan on how to secure these frameworks, because good learning environments, well-trained staff and safe environments for our young children do not come by themselves, and that certainly does not result from one hand giving a little bit of money and with the other hand holding our municipal councillors in a very, very tight vise, which means that even when 58,000 more young children arrive up to 2025, as Mr. Jacob Mark was also mentioned in the ▪ actually won't send money with which to suit it. I think this is serious, so I think there are more discussions in this, which is why I am also glad that the debate is being raised. There is discussion about what ambitions we have on behalf of our little children, how best to think about learning, how to do the best possible nursery and kindergarten in this country, and then there is the economic discussion. I think both are very important and I am glad that a debate has been set up which contains everything. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192015	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Anni Matthiesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192019	Thank you. Now, a little earlier today, I took part in the conciliation where the Socialist rapporteur was also present, and I can now, fortunately, ask the rapporteur a question: how did the Social Democrats plan to deal with the situation of these 58 000 extra children, which the rapporteur also mentioned during today's conciliation? So how do you expect to find money for it, and for that matter do you have the same plans as the SF's rapporteur, namely to raise the tax in order to cover these costs?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192058	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192059	Thank you. We very often talk about the fact that there will be more elderly people. I think that is such a generally established reality in the Danish population. We very rarely talk about the fact that this also applies to very young children. And that means that, as a society, we are faced with both a great many elderly people and that at the same time we will have a great many of the very young children who are also expensive if we want to give them a good framework. In order to respond to this, the Social Democrats have said that we will cover what we call the demographic trait or, in other words, it is not we who call it it; that is the way we talk about it. It doesn't sound so sexy, and you'd probably be able to harvest more votes by spending the money on some things that were called something sexier. But that is what our 2025 plan has to do, precisely that when, for example, it comes down to. If more young children come along, more money will be added.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192151	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192152	Thank you for your answer. I would also like to ask a few questions about what the SF rapporteur was talking about, namely minimum standards. How does the Social Democratic Party view this? If you want to follow the SF's line in relation to minimum standards, is this also something that has to be paid through an increased tax?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192214	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192215	Well, I am actually delighted that it is a total red block that has really sparked the ambitions of our young children. This is then reflected in the fact that it is different tools that we think are the best way to go there. We share the ambition, but whether it is minimum standards, or whether it is another way that is the best, is something we are discussing. And the Social Democratic Party has said that we really want to ensure that the municipalities have a framework so that they actually have the opportunity to prioritise children, but that it must be a municipal decision how the money is spent best. I have very great respect for the municipal political colleagues I have around, and I think that if they have the framework for it, then things will go very well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192257	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Bendixen as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192305	Thank you, President. Thank you from here to the SF for once again raising an exciting debate. In many ways, we agree with the intention to want the best for our children, and that is how we know that there can be a real difference between children, compared to how good they are, even when they go to school. Some people just hang behind, and they actually do that almost all their lives. We also talk a lot about breaking the negative social heritage; we are just not very good at it. There has also been a lot of focus for many years on the day offers and on making them better, while at least I have a little feeling that we may not look enough at the families as a whole, and really would like us to focus more on them. Because in the Danish People's Party we actually believe that the holistic efforts, including in the family, are one of the things that really make a difference. We see that, among other things. in connection with that learning bag and reading aloud with the kids; that's one of the things we know is really moving. So we would really like a more broad debate on what we can actually do for those children. In our view, parents are number one, and we cannot change that, which is why we also believe that we have an obligation to support those families and lift them by lifting parents to become better parents instead of focusing only on day offers. Of course, the day offers also play a role. The children are there for a great many hours, and it is of course also important what kind of staff they associate with there. We need to be sure that the children thrive, evolve and learn, but I also think we should be careful not to talk our day offers down by constantly saying that they need to get better, and that we need to make the ditten and date of the day offers because there are actually also a lot of good day offers with really good and amazing employees. In addition, there is also a lot out in the daily offers that depends on how management is, i.e. whether there is strong management that dares to take the lead and perhaps make the changes that also need to make a good day offer. So we welcome the debate, but we would like to have it on a slightly broader level. And I must therefore (on behalf of the DF and the government parties, V, LA and KF) make the following: Proposals for adoption In Denmark, already in the crèche and day care age, there are large differences in the socio-emotional and linguistic skills of children, and at school the differences remain up to 2 years between the most disadvantaged and the average. Negative social heritage costs a great deal for the individual and for society. The Folketing wants a society where all children join the community and unfold their potential. Parents are the starting point for a good start to life and have the greatest responsibility. However, daily offers also play an important role in ensuring that all children thrive, develop and learn. Pedagogical staff and managers focus on this, and the Folketing will also work for a good framework for high quality day offers with safe and stimulating learning environments that provide lasting improvements for children in vulnerable positions and support social mobility. The Folketing therefore urges the government to support that special children in vulnerable positions are supported through day offers and support for families with needs. • V 93).
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192624	Thank you. The proposal for adoption will then be included in the further debate. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192630	Thanks for the speech. I think there were many good points, and I fully agree that the family also plays a major role in raising more of the children. The rapporteur mentioned very little, if the rapporteur mentioned it at all, about the number of adults, that is to say what I spent an incredible amount of time on, namely the standards. I would really like to hear the rapporteur's position on this issue. Because in an area such as: After all, the Danish People's Party has been out saying that the productivity requirement must be abolished because the employees cannot run faster. So here we are dealing with a professional group, where the individual is alone with 17 children for 56 minutes a day, and where 58,000 more are coming, but no more teachers are allocated money. I would just like to hear: does the rapporteur also believe that this is a challenge? Does the rapporteur share the view that there are not enough adults in the day institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192723	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192725	From the outset, we share the concern that the SF also raises. But in relation to the study referred to, it is the case that 64 per cent have not answered it. So we just feel a little bit that it might give a pointer mark, so we have to look at it, but we don't think it's a valid study when 64 per cent. has chosen not to answer. Then it is quite right that you should not stand alone with 17 children and an experience that a dangerous situation might arise. But neither do we say that they should all be educators out there. After all, we have repeatedly said that educators and educators' assistants have a kitchen lady who can make a difference. After all, they can free up the time and resources of the educators so that they can do the educational work with the children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192813	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192816	I would like to ask you a little more simply, because I actually said deliberately grown-up in my question, because I know that the rapporteur is concerned: does the rapporteur think that right now there are enough adults in the country's day care institutions to be with the children?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192836	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192837	For good reasons, the rapporteur cannot answer this question because I do not know the number of adults and children in all day care centres. But I think, although I do not consider the study to be valid, that we should, of course, listen to those signals. At the same time, I am confident that there will also be a fight in the municipal councils. Like the rapporteur, I myself have a municipal political background and have helped to fight precisely for the money that your government placed not to go directly into the municipal treasury.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192907	The next question is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502192910	Thank you. After all, it is nice to have local political experience in the Parliamentary Assembly, because I think that only makes us all wiser, and it is good that the rapporteur has been working to ensure that the money we set aside actually went to what they were supposed to do. There are, in fact, very many places where it is successful, and that is wonderful. I would like to ask the rapporteur something. Now Mr. Jacob Mark on the current level, but I would very much like to ask the rapporteur how the rapporteur and the rapporteur's party view the projections up to 2025. We have mentioned this in the past. The projections are that there will be 58 000 more children aged between 0 and 5 years, and how does the rapporteur view this in economic policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193001	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193001-2	Actually, these population forecasts are something that you work a lot with in the municipal councils, and I have tried that myself. I am confident that the municipal council will of course take reservations about both the fact that there will be more elderly people, but also the fact that there will be more children. The same is true when the number of children falls, so we are also very quick to fire staff.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193024	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193025	Does the rapporteur see any need for us here from Christiansborg's point of view, in relation to the framework we agree with the municipality, to have an eye for this population projection when it comes to the fact that both the number of elderly and the number of young children appear to be increasing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193042	I am sure that all the rapporteurs, both the older rapporteurs and the child rapporteurs, will each fight for money to be set aside for their area, and I also think that all the children's rapporteurs in here would very much like more money to be set aside. However, we also recognise that our government has put a good bag of money on, even this time, for our children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193103	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silverhøj, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193108	Now I am aware that the rapporteur has been working in day care for many years, and so I would like to ask the rapporteur: is it not a very high quality of municipal day care that each day care provider has three or four children in his care every day? Is it not extremely important for educational work that there are so few children for a single employee?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193136	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193138	It is clearly a quality, and it is also a quality that parents choose for, because they choose the home environment. You can also turn it around and say that day care is only 48 hours a week with the children, and besides, you can also go very long with five children, even though the law says four.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193159	Does the questioner want a follow-up question? You gotta get in there. The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193204	I quite share that quality, but does the rapporteur not agree that then we have a problem if we say that it is a particular quality, that is, that there are four children for an employee in day care, when you can see that in the country's day nurseries it is very large part of the day that the SF's rapporteur has already mentioned it so that an employee is alone with 10-12 day nurseries for shorter or longer periods of time. Is it not a totally unacceptable situation that there are so many children per year? employees in our crèches?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193245	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193247	Well, it could be somewhere. I would also say that elsewhere there is a really strong management that knows how to put staff together in such a way that they do not actually experience being alone. I myself have been visiting a crèche where management took the lead and said that now we have to do something else because what we are doing now is not good and we are too much alone and we have stress and there is a poor well-being and she succeeded with no extra resources.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193312	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next speaker is Mrs Anni Matthiesen, as rapporteur for the Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193321	Thank you, President. As the Left child rapporteur, I am very pleased that the SF has raised the debate on reducing the negative social heritage as well as focusing on the standards in the day institutions. Of course, both I and the Left are concerned to do as much as possible to combat the negative social heritage. Indeed, all research says that the negative social heritage is best and most effectively combated by taking action as early as possible, in other words already in our day-to-day services, while the children are very young. Last week, as you know, we presented a day-to-day package, which I am also very proud and happy about, and I can then reveal that I myself have been working on that package for the past year, so I have been looking forward very much to being able to also be able to share in presenting the initiatives and ambitions that are in the package, so that the public is now also aware of it. If I am to highlight just a few of the elements in the package, which I am very excited about, it is, among other things, that childcare is now being given the opportunity to become even more flexible. With the initiative, we are responding to many of the parents who are currently working at odds. When, for example, A policeman and a nurse live together and have different working hours, it is often a challenge for them today to make everyday life work together. In fact, I also received an email last week from the Danish Actor Association, which sent me a thank you for the fact that it was now focused on the fact that there are, in fact, often some, also in the actor industry, who have huge challenges in getting their children cared for with the changing working hours that they have. That is why I have to say that this is one of the things that I welcome became part of the package. In addition to this, we have put an extra emphasis on the fact that more funding is also being provided in relation to the children who come from vulnerable families, that is to say, that there is simply an extra hand to be given to the day-to-day services, and thus they will have the opportunity to be able to hire more educators now. Today there are children who, when they hit school age, are up to two years behind their peers, and here at least we have an opportunity now to try to rectify this and to do something significantly earlier. All children deserve a good start to life and a safe everyday life, I think we can actually agree on that here in Parliament, and that is one of the things that we are now addressing with this day-to-day package and where, hopefully, we will make a good step along the way, and for that matter too, I hope, and that is something that we can seek together to back up across the parties in this Parliament. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193639	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193640	Thank you for your speech, and congratulations on the playout for the new day-offer reform. I also think that what is in it is very sensible and I know that the rapporteur has been working on it for a long time. In my question, I will focus on norms. What I would like to ask is: does the rapporteur back up the class ceiling we have in primary school? And if so, why should there be a class ceiling in the primary school, but no minimum standards in the day institutions? Why should there be a ceiling on how many children must be with adults when it is at school and when the children are older, but not in the nursery and kindergarten where the children are younger?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193723	Yes, the rapporteur supports the class ceiling in primary school. And then I have to say that something that I, like the Socialist rapporteur, very much appreciate is to allow room for local self-government. So do I in this area. When I go around the country and visit different types of day care, it is both day nurseries and kindergarten, I actually meet in a long, by far most cases day care services that work very well, and the municipalities take on the responsibility that they also have of ensuring good care arrangements. So I have to say, and I think the SF's rapporteur is also aware that if we had money trees to grow in the backyard, we would all like to distribute even more money to the day offers. But we certainly haven't been able to find that money in this round.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193822	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193823	In other words, if the rapporteur had a money tree or was sitting on a larger part of the treasury in the Ministry of Finance, the rapporteur would be ready to introduce a minimum standard. I'd like to hear about that. This argument about municipal autonomy is being used in a wide variety of ways. Many of the people I represent in the municipalities would think it would be nice to have a minimum standard, even if they are council members. It is because they think that minimum standards are good. They would also not think it would be good to abolish the class ceiling. That is why I would just like to ask: if, in this case, we buy the argument about municipal self-government, why is it that the class ceiling is not abolished, because municipal self-government can take care of that for itself? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193907	I have to say that I am not prepared to abolish the class ceiling. I would say that I cannot stand here and say that from now on and forever, the Left will not be in favour of doing some sort of minimum standards in the day-to-day offers. But I'm saying that now we have 580 million. kr., it's because, frankly, we've gotten an amount through on the Left Finance Act... it was back in 2016 and the way we've now chosen to prioritize the money is by earmarking it especially for the weakest children. It is simply a priority, in relation to what could be the money for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193949	The next question is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502193951	Thank you for that and thank the rapporteur for the warm words on behalf of our children. I would very much like to acknowledge both the visions and the ambitions, but also the outstretched hand and the call for us to stand together a little in here on the political stage at Christiansborg. I believe that, in terms of how crucial the first years of life of a young child are for the rest of their lives, it is not the measure of how much is being talked about, and that is why I think it would be really nice that, with our new children's network, we also increasingly came together to put it on the agenda. I would also like to acknowledge that the rapporteur's party in the government has helped to present something about social norms now. This is something that my heart, as a Social Democrat, has been beating warmly for too long, and I am glad to see that it is now spreading. At the same time, however, I would like to ask the rapporteur how the sum of 580 million is being sold. kr. is consistent with the fact that every year the municipalities are told that they have to save. Wouldn't it just undermine it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194057	In other words, if we now, in this debate, hopefully with the broad support of the parliamentary parties, ensure that the things presented here in the day-to-day package are earmarked, then I really believe that we can ensure that the very small children benefit from the package. Perhaps in some areas what was not fully secured in the act of the former Socialist Government was that of following the money to the door, that is. earmark the money directly for the individual day offers. I feel that, in the proposal we have made, we are getting very far in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194144	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194145	With all due respect, I think it is sensible to have the 580 million. kr., and I am pleased with the tactics of the game, but I also think that it makes sense when we talk about the broad perspective of children, so also to include the broad economic perspective. It has to be said that even if all 580 million were spent. kr. 350 more educators a year to 4,000 institutions. In other words, we can do some targeted things, but that is not where we generally ensure the safe environment. The safe environment is ensured by the proper level of the base, and I just find it difficult to see how you will accommodate 58,000 more children up to 2025, but at the same time will not provide a better framework for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194233	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194234	I also think it is important that, in this evening's debate, we actually remember to tell all the good stories, and fortunately we have a lot of them. By far the vast majority of places we have an amazing educational staff who care for young children and who are committed to their working day and for that matter make a huge effort. That is why I think that although the SF's rapporteur is, of course, also focusing on the study that has been here a short time ago, it should also be borne in mind that far, in the vast majority of places, it actually works impeccably. I still want to say that, of course, out of the 580 million. kr. chooses to earmark funds for the day offers that have additional needs, so that they get a hand in the game we've come up with.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194325	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. Next in line, sir. Jakob Silverhøj as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194332	I too would like to thank the SF for having raised the debate; it is good to have an opportunity to discuss quality in daily offers. In preparing today's debate, I have once again read with interest the government's proposal on strong day offers, and I have welcomed one of the very first aspects of encountering the Heckman curve, that is, the curve in which economist James Heckman illustrates that investment in an early effort pays off. That it pays off, I think, in essence, most people have thought for a long time in terms of the well-being and development of children, but perhaps I also sense that there are some trends that we might be approaching a consensus that says that there is in fact also a consensus that it is worth investing in early efforts in the socio-economic field. Nevertheless, it is as if the roads are separating when we come to a practical policy, and I have thought about what the reasons for this can really be. After all, there is the possibility that some of the political parties, after all, do not really believe in the Heckman basket at all, but just think that it is nonsense that looks nice on paper. The second option is to operate in very short perspectives, and there are both short-term and long-term perspectives by investing in early action. The short-term is the fact that children thrive when they go in a good day offer, and it feels parents immediately. On the other hand, their position on the labour market at the age of 46-48 cannot be measured immediately. I think there may be a tendency to have a great deal of eye for the short-term consequences, but incredibly little for the long-term. There may also be the third possibility that some parties really believe that our day offer does not play a particularly central role, but that the money is in fact better placed in the citizens' pockets, and then the individual parents can have their own money spent on the individual child. The fourth option is that it may be that we do not think the same at all when we talk about early action, and it may be blocking the debate if we name something that we really regard as completely different. So when I and Enhedslisten talk about early work, we have no doubt, even from the research that lies in the fact that what is battling in relation to early work is that there are proper staff standards, and what is further battling is that there is a good level of training for the staff who work with the children on a daily basis. I think that in the government's proposals there are actually good initiatives in the area of day-to-day provision, there are many useful proposals, and it is very good that there is an emphasis on action against the socially vulnerable. It is a good thing that money should be set aside for skills raising, it is fine with strengthened parental influence, and it is very good with strengthened cooperation with municipal health care. There are also elements in which we disagree, and this is not least about creating better conditions for private operators. We do not believe that the privatisation of the day-to-day services area has been beneficial, but we are pleased that a signal is being sent that, in relation to the private children's carers, we might see an initiative that will look at the quality there, because we have 10,000 small children who are with private children's carers without the necessary quality today. I would like to point out two things that I think are absolutely crucial. One is, as I said, the standards. It has already been mentioned that three out of four teaching staff on a daily basis for shorter or longer periods experience being alone with children. I think it should be the case that we should have standards, we could call them minimum standards, but we could also say that we should have standards in our day care institutions, so that when parents come down to the room, they can always be sure that there are actually at least two employees. One would stumble if one came down to the school and could see that there were no teachers that day, that was too bad, so there was no money for that now. I think that we must have the same threshold for cutting when entering the kindergarten group, that is to say that there must be at least two employees. The second is that I think that we should look together at whether there should be a major increase in education in this area. I just checked the staff statistics, a few hours before I went down here, and today there are 40,000 people without educational training employed in day-care institutions, school-free periods and day-care. That is true, a great many, and if we are to take research seriously, namely that it is standardisation and education that is battling, we must, in addition to pointing out better standards, observe that it is therefore also the case that a very large increase in training is needed, so that we ensure that there is much more trained staff in our institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194859	There are brief comments. The first question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194900	Thank you very much. Now Mr. Jakob Silver High Day Care, and we have suffered a common heart child there, you might say. But it has happened in a lot of municipalities that you have fired very, very many day care providers, and then you have replaced the day care places with day care places. And crèche places are considerably more expensive than day care places. Now, in his question, the rapporteur himself referred to me as to whether the standards were not better in day care, and then I can ask you back: do you not shoot yourself in the foot when you fire day care providers who have a better nomination, then replace them with day care places which are significantly more expensive and then complain that there is a bad rating?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194943	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502194944	I would say that very often people shoot themselves in the feet. I think that the crucial thing to take a position on as a municipal councillor is surely what the parents are asking for. I mean, I think it's important that it's the parents who have the long end in terms of what day-off structure we're going to have. On the other hand, I am of the opinion that a great many municipalities speculate more in rationality than in parents' needs. So I think that where day care places have been placed, in the vast majority of cases, they have shot themselves in the foot. It has been done in order to create some rationality, and in reality it has been made more operational, because it is indeed more expensive to run a day care crèche than to run day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195034	There is no pressure on the second brief remark. All right, here you go, the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195038	I am really pleased that the rapporteur recognises that this is what has happened after all. Then it's true that you can wear this hat with us doing what the parents want. But what do we do if parents ask for a hundred percent of crèche places? Because we can't afford to shut down municipal day care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195056	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195057	I mean, I've been working on municipal day care for many years, and I think it's a great educational offer, so I would think it was disastrous if we no longer had a municipal day care. Nevertheless, I have to say that it must be the case in our society that parents are the ones who have the long end and who choose from a range of options what they think educational is the best for their child. I think there are a lot of parents who do that too, I know there are many parents who do it today, and I think you will keep doing it in the future. That is why I believe that there is a good future for municipal day care. In any case, it must not be abolished if there are parents who demand it for economic reasons. That would be really, really stupid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195145	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195147	The Enhedslisten's rapporteur said just now that it is important that it is the parents who have the long end. At the same time, however, I was able to understand from Enhedslisten's rapporteur that the part dealing with the private day offers is not something that Enhedslisten loves. Isn't there something conflicting in those things? Well, isn't there anything conflicting in it when you say that parents need to get to the long end, and yet, as I understand Enhedslisten, I guess more or less want to close the private care services?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195224	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195224-2	No, in my opinion there is no contradiction in that. The questioner has heard quite rightly: I believe that it is the parents who must make a choice as to where their child should be offered today but precisely in day-to-day offers. I believe that what society must make available to the children to whom care is sought must be a day-to-day service which has a certain quality. And it is now the case that the private services that exist are not covered by Chapter 2 of the daily services law, which lays down the specific quality requirements for day-to-day services. This means that there are care systems where there are no quality requirements, and I believe that when society has to make offers to parents, they have to meet some minimum quality. Otherwise, no community money should be spent on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195319	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195320	Okay, we'll get close to the heart of the matter. This means that Enhedslisten is actually in favour of private care services, just of a certain quality. Can the rapporteur then define a little more precisely what is going on with a certain quality? What exactly is that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195339	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195340	Yeah, I can do that. As far as private childcare is concerned, it is absolutely crucial that it becomes a day-to-day service. Today is not a day offer. It is clear, when you read the daily offer law, that it is not at all in the sense of the law. Therefore, it would significantly correct it if it were included in the quality requirements that are there. But I can also say, in general terms, about private childcare, that when we look at private institutions we see that they are being used to print salaries and that they are being used to have lower staff standards, and that is why, unfortunately, in some private institutions there is a lower educational offer. And I do not think we should make public funds available for some to score the money and, in return, give the children a lower offer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195426	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next is Mrs Laura Lindahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195434	Thank you, President. From here I should also like to thank the SF and SF's child rapporteur, Mr. Jacob Mark, for the occasion to spend this Tuesday evening talking about children and children's well-being. I'm glad when I need to spend an evening away from my kids to be here, that it's after all, because we're talking about better conditions for kids, then it makes a little more sense that I can't kiss them good night tonight. In the Liberal Alliance, of course, we share the Government's ambition to reduce the negative social heritage, and it is an important liberal priority to work actively to ensure that citizens in Denmark are not to be slaves to their originators that you can be free and that you can live a free life. And, of course, on certain groups of children, it can be seen from an early age that they have some quite different challenges from their peers in relation to, for example, their children. the development of language and motor skills, which is why day-to-day offers have a major role in helping to raise the weakest and secure equal opportunities. The government has presented a very good offer, I think, on how we can raise the quality of our day offer, and there is also the focus on those who are particularly vulnerable. In view of today's debate on the question, I would like to state that I do not believe that quality can be assessed in terms of norms or resource consumption. In my children's day care, priority has been given to a cook. They've got a cook who's cooking for them... bakes buns and crackbread till 2:00. 9, cooking hot food for 9:00. 11.30 and again do something for the afternoon. One could have chosen one more educator, and it would have done a great deal in such a small institution as that, but one has chosen a cook, and that is quality for me. We parents have chosen it because we think it's a boost. There are probably some parents who would rather give the children lunches and who would have had the extra educator. And that is how we are really different as people, as parents, and we have different priorities. That is why I am particularly pleased that one of the initiatives in our day-to-day package is an information portal to ensure better transparency and better choice for parents. The idea of an information portal is to make it easier, more transparent, more manageable as parents to choose exactly what you think is best for your own child. Because we are different and we have to respect that one size fits all just is not a viable path, precisely because we have different priorities on behalf of our children. We are talking about the fact that resources do not matter, and the rapporteur for the questioners says in his speech that we cannot continue to talk about debureaucratisation, and I would like to say that in this way I agree that debureaucratisation has become a buzzword, which we all say a lot in here, but we have a real difficulty in making it concrete. But I still think there is a task in that we think from in here, but also in the municipalities, what the good intentions are of bureaucracy. I have a concrete example from the municipality where I sit in the municipal council, where the Social Democratic Party suggested that it should be decided that all children should go out every day. This is, in fact, a rather sympathetic proposal. We agree that children need to get out as much as possible. It is good to be out, even when it rains, even when it is cold, and not only when the sun shines. It's good for kids. But when you start introducing such rules, it has to be checked, it has to be documented. What happens if they haven't been out? Why haven't they been out? And I guess the parents need to know what's going on. It is in this way that a great deal of bureaucracy arises, that when you have a good intention and you want to ensure that the children are out, you put in place rules on it, and then you have to check it, you have to talk about sanctions, you have to secure it, and there will probably also be procedures within which you have to discuss the employees and the manager between: how do we deal with it if there is a small child today who really does not want to leave; should we force the child out? So we also believe in the Liberal Alliance that it is possible to improve day-to-day offers by allowing employees more freedom, freeing managements and, in this way, increasing quality. So from here it is actually just to say that we share the ambition, but we also think it is a matter of something other than just resources. It is a question of method, it is a question of freedom, both for parents to choose what they think is best, but also for employees to do what they think is best for children. The Liberal Alliance supports the proposal for adoption which the Danish People's Party read out earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195943	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. First question, sir. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502195946	Thank you. And thank you for your speech. It may be a bit awkward to be here on a Tuesday night, but on the other hand my evening was better to hear a Liberal Alliance rapporteur say that people should not be slaves of origin. That sounds almost totally revolutionary. So it's great. I have two questions. One is something I have asked about in the past: why should there be a class ceiling in primary school if there is not to be a minimum staffing in the day care institution? What is the logic of that? And the other thing that hasn't really been talked about today is this whole issue of invitations to our day care institutions. Does the Liberal Alliance mean that you have to be able to make money from children? Does the Liberal Alliance believe that it should be possible to run private day care institutions and pull out profits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200032	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200033	Well, to begin with, I can say that we are not in favour of class ceilings. So it's so easy. And with regard to the second, i.e. the issue of outsourcing, I can say: yes, we do not think it is unhealthy to make money. The questioner makes it sound like you're making money from kids. We think competition is really healthy, because it makes you run your business more efficiently and often gets a better quality. But of course it has to be with the one hundred percent free choice, because of course it has to be the case that you as parents can choose from it. Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200108	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200109	Anyway, it was interesting, that the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of a class ceiling. I would like to ask a lot of questions about the issue of outsourcing, but it is well known that this is the position of the Liberal Alliance. So I would like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur could put a few more words on why the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of a class ceiling in the Danish primary school.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200127	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200128	Now I am not the rapporteur for education, so I am looking a little down at the Left's teaching rapporteur, who is laughing a little. In other words, we believe that the individual school should have the freedom to set the ceiling itself where it should be. In fact, we think that there can be a huge difference between what the right class size is, depending on where in the country you are and what kind of students you have. There may be some students for whom 24 students are max. the limit that they get something out of it, because there are very many exposed students. There may also be classes where you can be 28 or 30 students because it is another type of student, another type of school. So we actually believe that the heads and staff of the individual school, the teachers, are the very best at assessing where exactly the cut should be.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200215	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silver mound, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200217	You know, the story about the kitchen assistant really warms you up. I agree. There should be one of these in every daycare institution. This is of great importance to children's everyday lives. However, the rapporteur has said that priority must be given. I understand that there is then a less priority for an educational employee. I would like to hear: is there some limit to the priority? Is that acceptable? Would I like to hear a clear answer to the fact that during periods of the day in a crèche there is only one employee for a group of 10 or 12 children?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200257	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200258	I mean, is there a limit? Yeah, but it's probably different for all of us. And that is where I believe that the task lies with the parents and not in the Folketing. I believe that individual parents should assess where their limit is and then force it through by moving the institution or, in fact, to start with, by not choosing an institution. The idea of this information portal is to be able to go in and assess the priorities of each institution so that you can go in and see what the standards are. Then you can clearly see in a municipality that there are options for the institutions that offer something special. And the institutions that will suddenly have a decrease in the number of applications may look over at some of those you are looking over to and see what they are doing. And they prioritise in that way, and then it could be that you should do it, because otherwise there will be shut down and turned off. That's how we think it works out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200359	The questioner just made it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200404	I do not think I was given an answer to my question as to whether it was acceptable for an employee to be alone in periods of 10-12 children. I really think this is important, because this thing with minimum standards is easily so abstract. I also tried in my rapporteur's speech to illustrate. Would we think it was a very good idea for some schools to say: we are running a number of courses without teachers here, because there is not really any advice? There I think everyone would say that it was probably a relatively bad idea if they were to learn something. Could it not be said that it was reasonable for there to be something similar in the crèche, so that, in the case of young children aged 10 months to 3 years, it is simply not acceptable that there is only one employee or is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200453	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200454	I myself would not think that it was acceptable in my children's day care if there were only one educator for 17 children, but it is therefore difficult to predict what this situation is and how long it is. It is clear that this is not acceptable, but I think it is a management task to ensure. But I wouldn't think it was acceptable. But the question is, do we have to legislate on it from in here? That is what the question is, and I do not think we should. But I personally would not think that this was acceptable in my daycare institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200526	The next question is Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200530	Thank you. And thank you for the words about freeing not only our leaders and institutions, but also the employees. I am very much in agreement, and I think that this requires a dispute with, or at least a fundamental discussion about, what it is that we put down on them by concepts and the like, both on the part of the Folketing, but also on the part of the local authorities. I believe that we should have the courage to trust that once we have trained educational staff, they also know how to deal with our children. So thank you for that. However, in relation to what we should dictate and not dictate, I would just like to hear the rapporteur about something. As I have understood the rapporteur, the rapporteur's party is in favour of zero growth and perhaps even negative growth in the public sector, so does the rapporteur believe that with negative growth everything the rapporteur is talking about can be said about ambition on behalf of our children? Or is it the case that the rapporteur believes that there should be more payment from, for example. The parents themselves?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200631	Well, that goes for the whole public sector. Well, there are many parts of the public sector that we in the Liberal Alliance would like to cut away. There is no doubt that we, like everyone else in this House, believe that it is important to invest in children and that early years are important; so do we. Overall, we believe that there is plenty of room for saving in the public sector, but it is not certain that there is room for more savings in the area of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200657	The questioner wants to go again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200702	So shall I understand that it is a yes for us to have minus growth, a yes to round-shave large parts of our public sector, but that the children's area should actually be as it is today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200716	In other words, it is a yes for us to have minus growth, a yes for there to be plenty in the public sector that we can easily pick out, let private people handle and not spend tax dollars on, and perhaps a yes for the children's area not to stand for shots. In fact, I believe that there are still some places where some management bodies in the municipalities can be made more efficient, including in the children's administration. I see that at least there could be talk of that in my own municipality. But I agree that it is important not to cut down on the warm hands out in the day institutions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200751	Thank you to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur. I kindly remind you that if you want a follow-up short remark, you just press the button. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Rasmus Nordqvist as rapporteur for the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502200805	Thank you. And I would also like to thank the SF for this debate. After all, it is always nice to be allowed to take part in debates in areas that you do not normally deal with because you actually learn more about it. So thank you all for that. There is no doubt that better standards are needed in the day institutions. Quality measurement after quality measurement shows that the children spend less and less time with the educators. The daily life of the day-care institutions 2015• shows that the staff in the day-care institutions are concerned about the importance for children that they cannot provide adequate care. For example: 17 percent say. of the employees interviewed that they are unable to provide comfort to a child daily or several times a day. 26% experience daily or several times daily that they cannot care for a child with disruptive behavior. 23% experience daily or several times daily that they do not have time to take care of a child who has difficulty getting into the game. And these are just a few figures; I know that there are many, many more, but it is unnecessary to mention more, because we all know that we are not doing well enough. I have also heard and read the Minister say on several occasions that she is so concerned about children and families, and it is therefore also gratifying that the government has set aside 580 million. kr. over the next four years to the day-care area. The question is, of course, whether that is enough, and not least how the government intends to use the funds. I would like to make a few suggestions as to how we think the alternative can carry out the task of improving the quality of the institutions and a more coherent child life for our youngest fellow citizens at all. We want to set the institutions free, including the day-to-day institutions. This means that we must ensure the resource framework of the institutions, which will enable them to meet our expectations of providing our youngest generations with day-to-day offers that are of security, of proximity, of care and of time, yes, not least time. But quality is best developed from the bottom up, and that is why we are also in principle opposed to too strict political management of the day institutions. We politicians must ensure the right framework, but we must not run the institutions in detail. And we are afraid that this will happen if there is too much demand for minimum standards, for example, because minimum standards tend to become standards, and they lock the institutions to using staff resources in ways which they would not necessarily themselves professionally and educationally decide if they had been allowed to have the same resources on their own. That is why we can also fear that requirements for minimum standards create unnecessary bureaucracy and unnecessary documentation requirements, with which we already know the institutions are struggling very hard today. That is why we propose to allocate resources to day-care institutions in terms of resources, as advocated by the professional recommendations. But we will always strike a blow at the fact that it is the institutions themselves and not us politicians who decide how resources are used. It must be possible for a day-care institution to organise work flexibly according to local needs, so that it is not possible to override its own professional educational assessments, because we have politically decided that death and torment must always be that way and that way. In the end, it is about trusting the management, parental board and educators of the individual institutions. Because we believe that everyone wants the best for the children. As long as we merely provide a proper framework for resources, the institutions will have to show us how to deliver the quality, care and presence needed. The professional recommendations to which we refer are from the report "New Agenda for Denmark's Day Offers" which was prepared by the Presidency of the Council of Children's Learning in autumn 2016. The recommendations are that children's groups should be at maximum. 10 crèches and max. 20 kindergarten children and that there should be 3 employees per year. children's group 6 hours a day in nursery groups and 4 hours a day in kindergarten groups. In addition, the recommendations say that employees should not be alone with children's groups or throughout the institution. Finally, let me mention a few other proposals that we have specifically to strengthen the conditions of children and children's families in Denmark. One is that we want to award social norms to institutions with many bilingual children or children from vulnerable families. The second proposal is that we think it is high time that education and training was given the recognition it deserves, and that means ensuring that there is the same taximeter system for educating, as there is for example for teacher training, so that they are at the same level with each other. So thank you for the debate and thank you for being able to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201306	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. The first question is Mr. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201310	Thanks for the speech. I am surprised, however, that the alternative is not now in favour of minimum standards. I asked him about a year ago, sir. Rasmus Nordqvist in a debate I think it was an opening debate or a closing debate on whether the Alternative was in favour of minimum standards. It was a maybe, and then it later became a yes. I may have heard wrong, but then I just have to understand. If it is not a minimum standard that the alternative is in favour of, does it mean that we are in favour of something else? How much money does it have to channel out to get more adults? What are the professional recommendations, and what will it cost, and how do you ensure that the money is spent in this area? Because that is what has been the problem in the past. The last thing I have asked the others about is: are you not in favour of the class ceiling? Now we have just heard that the Liberal Alliance is not in favour of the class ceiling. If the alternative is not, because it is really tight management, but it is a good tight management.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201408	I know that it has been very difficult for the questioner to understand at all what we have said. It's too bad it's so crazy that it's completely incomprehensible. We have also taken it on the author's facebook page when there was a presentation of what had been said, which, to put it mildly, was a bit imaginative. What this is about for us is providing the proper framework for the institutions. Then I said in that debate, yes, it was an opening debate or a closing debate that there aren't enough resources now and that it's a fight out there. So it can be a necessary tool. But does this mean that we think it is the very best tool in the world if we had power over SF, Enhedslisten, Radicals, all other parties, and could decide as we would? No, we would then set up the right framework, as I said in my rapporteur's speech. Because then we think it is best in the institutions. But can it be a necessary tool before we get there to work with minimum standards? Yeah, it might be. But we don't want it. We do not want us to be in a situation where we have to use minimum standards, because we believe that this is a bad tool.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201510	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201513	It may be that the rapporteur is responding to that now. But then I would like to know how much resources the rapporteur envisages spending on getting more adults, because that is absolutely crucial on this issue. And the second is, as I also asked, whether the rapporteur will then also abolish the class ceiling. For a minimum standard is, of course, just to say that there must be a certain number of adults for a certain number of children, and that is also what has been said with the class ceiling. Will the alternative also abolish the class ceiling?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201544	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201546	In the ideal world, it would be up to the individual school to plan how to do it • how do the classes look; we put 4 classes together in some parts of the day; how do we work with the teaching? And again, I really ask the rapporteur to try to understand what I am saying and listen to it in the ideal world. We're not there yet. That is also why I say that minimum standards can be a necessary tool. I cannot stand here and say exactly what we are going to drop off, but, as I clearly said, we have chosen to take up some professional assessments from a study which we mean to make some suggestions as to what it is going to be. Then we will have to calculate what it is and then we will have to work towards putting the funds off. But it is again about what tools we need until we get to the ideal world.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201635	The next question is Mrs Pernille Bendixen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201638	Thank you very much. That was very interesting. It may have been an aha experience, but it was perhaps just biased to think that the alternative was also in favour of minimum standards. But that is fair enough; that is the way it is. In view of the fact that you still have this thing about having more staff and that it is really nice and something like that, does the alternative also recognise the other professional groups, that is, the teaching assistants and educators, and that there may be a cook or a cook lady who comes and cooks for the children as a quality? And above all, what does the alternative think about day care, where the standards are much better, but where the staff are not trained?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201715	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201716	All sorts of professional groups can be used to create a good, safe and present environment for our children when they are in an institution. I think it is very important that we do not begin to say that everyone else can now take over. In other words, there is a value in the educated educator too, and that is also why, in my rapporteur's speech, I said that we should also look at how we give real support to education and training that is needed. But that does not mean that a cook cannot play a part in a good and present daily life for a child in an institution. I simply need to be answerable in relation to the day care area. I do not know anything about that, but I am happy to have some answers sent to Mrs Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201803	That's fair enough. With regard to social norms, which are something that is also talked about a great deal, it is actually the case that a great many municipalities already have it. Is it so fair that social norms are once again granted to those who already have them? After all, it will suddenly be a very small number of people who receive a great deal of money, whereas the whole of the general area is once again being ignored. Is that fair?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201827	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201829	That is also the point of my speech when I say that the question is whether this is enough. I mean, they're 580 million. kr. enough for us to get the area we want? There is a need to look at social norms, but there is also a need to give it a global boost in order to get to the ideal care for children, which is about a present and good day care institution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201851	The next question is Mr. Jakob Silver Mound. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201854	I also got a little curious about the minimum standards. Sometimes it may be because we use the language different. Today it is the case that there is a minimum standard in municipal day care: there must be five children inside the doors and absolutely no more, and if there are six or seven, you break the law. Does the rapporteur consider this to be negative? And would it really be better if there could be six, seven, eight pieces, that is, if it were the understanding that was between the individual municipal day care and the parents? I am a little curious to hear what the rapporteur thinks about this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201936	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502201937	I think it is important to say again that we are leaning on what is good if we look at the recommendations that have been made in the study to which I refer in my rapporteur's speech. That is what we are leaning on, but we therefore believe that it is necessary to have confidence in trained staff, in the educators, in the boards, in the management of the day institutions, and that we do not make excessive demands. And this is absolutely nothing new, because I have been saying it to a great many opening and closing debates, because I would like to be asked by Mr Beazley. Jacob Mark and his fellow party members about this very thing. So that's an old-fashioned alternative attitude. In relation to day care, I have to say again that I do not know about the area, so I will not stand here and give any answer. Because I don't do that wisely enough.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202027	No, but it's okay, too. But it was really just to illustrate what this minimum rating is. Because it can sometimes be so abstract. But I would just like to know if I heard it correctly, so that the rapporteur believes that there must be no more than 10 children in a nursery group and 20 children in a nursery group and that the professionally sound standards should be that there are no more than three 0-2-year-old children for an adult. In my view, this is a question of defining minimum standards. Is that not how the rapporteur understands it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202113	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202114	No, what it means to us is that we are saying: OK, how are we going to find out what kind of funds are going to be set aside for a given area? There we lean on the recommendations that are here. But there is a difference between the individual day care and there I would like to go into the day care area or the individual institution, which can be of varying size, i.e. how you plan your work and how you choose to do it, because there are precisely different staff in a larger institution, and that is where we just keep saying: Let us now trust that we have trained some super skilled educators and that we have some talented leaders out in our institutions, instead of thinking that it is from here that we can detail every detail out in the institutions. Because where are we gonna stop? What if you do a minimum rating and start saving elsewhere in the institutions? Are we also going to make rules as to how the walls are to be painted and what are the options? In other words, we can get into a detailed planning which will be so rigid that I think it would be a great pity for the staff we have actually trained and who have a high level of professionalism in relation to this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202218	The next question is Mrs Anni Matthiesen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202221	Thank you for an exciting rapporteur's speech. One of the things I would perhaps like to ask a little more is: if the alternative rapporteur could himself decide how much more money should the day offers have been added? More funding is needed for the day-to-day offers, or the alternative rapporteur believes that the 30 billion. kr., which is already used today in this area, is actually enough?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202256	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202258	As I replied to earlier, I cannot give an exact figure here, for the simple reason that I am simply not enough inside this area to have on crowns and ears what it is that is needed for it. So the questioner must ask our rapporteur in this area. But we see a problem when we see a day care institution where we see these measurements that show this problem with the presence of adults in relation to children. We think that is a challenge and a problem, and that is why we are asking about these 580 million. kr. is enough to lift up to the level where our skilled educators think it is also professionally sound.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202337	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202340	So the freedom which the alternative really demands, and which I hear the rapporteur emphasizes, is the freedom for day-care institutions and staff to be allowed to act themselves, even in relation to standards. If you do not get that freedom, for example. Should a change of government come at a time with Mette Frederiksen in the lead, is the freedom that means so much to the alternative, so something that the alternative will also fight for at that time, that is to say the freedom not to have minimum standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202418	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202420	I can promise the questioner that the alternative will fight for the policy of the Alternative, and then I am also so smart after two years in the Folketing that I know that then you make compromises where you get part of yours, and then you meet with some others about their opinions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202432	Thank you to the rapporteur of the alternative. The next is Mrs Lotte Rod as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202442	Thank you. The children are the most important thing we have, and I am actually quite happy to feel that there is such a budding movement going on, where we are talking more and more about how important it is to put in place early, although there is still a little work to gather 90 mandates to create the action in here too. Mrs Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen and I had earlier today the Minister for Children in consultation where the Minister said that the current standards are sufficient. I thought that was a little disheartening, because usually we fight over whether we can now find the money for it, but, in fact, we agree that more needs to be done than today. It is not because it is important in itself how many educators there are. What matters is that there are skilled educators, such as: can help to support any child becoming a part of the community, so that there are no children, such as: Always being the dog when you're playing dad and mom and kids. It is a question of educational professionalism, but it is also the case that children cannot be divided into small groups if there are no educators to do so. The Minister said at the hearing that it is not a problem that a teacher is alone with 17 children, if one has done so, because another educator has gone aside to do something special with three, four, five children. But I hope that, after all, we can agree with each other that we could make a greater difference to the 17 children too, if there were more educators, so that we also had the opportunity to do something special with them. When we discuss this today, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for the work on the new curricula. As one of those who has raised the flag for the game and against making learning goals for the individual child, I think it is also appropriate from up here to recognise that the game has taken on a central importance, and I look forward to the fact that hopefully we will soon have to go to the ministry and discuss it. As far as the money is concerned, the government allocates 145 million. kr. A year for this game. We need 1.8 billion. kr. a year, if you are to have the standards that would be good. With this package, the government can get that in the vicinity of 100 extra educators. That is why, after this initiative, the Radical Left plan will also be needed, which means that we need 4,500 more educators and 1 billion. kr. For further training. That is so much money that it is not something you can just fix on one financial law. This requires a large investment, and there we have a rather unique chance right now, when we could use the 2025 negotiations and asking the people who can to work the extra year that we have agreed in the Folketing with each other, but to do so from 2025 instead of 2030. I would say that, as a radical, I have arms above my head today because we have managed to bury the housing tax stop. We got a lot of beaten up to say that as the only ones in the election campaign, and that gives us a little hope that this can also come true at some point.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202810	I must recommend that the rapporteur refrain from swearing. There are no brief comments, so we thank the radical rapporteur and pass on the floor to Mr Beazley. Orla Østerby as rapporteur for the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502202826	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that the day-care institutions and the day-to-day services we have in Denmark are of a very high quality. I think it is forgotten in the debate that we are actually in the top five in the world spending 30 billion. kr. On our children. It's not a coincidence that we're lying where we are. It is because we have a welfare society that has chosen to spend a great deal of money on children's upbringing, and we are very pleased with that in the Conservative People's Party. When we say from the government that there are some things we need to adjust, I am glad that we have come up with a proposal for strong day-to-day offers which can help to move on to some areas that the questioner is also talking about here in what we are discussing today. However, I would just like to say that BUPL is, of course, an interest organisation, and I understand that Mr. Jacob Mark's using it. 17 children and 56 minutes we have seen it in many places. I acknowledge that BUPL has done a study which far below 50%. has the answer to that question. I must also point out that children and parents are well above 80%. to the satisfaction of their institutions. It is a bit in stark contrast to BUPL's investigation, but the BUPL has to answer for that, and Mr. Jacob Mark must also be responsible for taking it as carefully as he has done in his speech to this debate. I dare to stand up for the fact that in the institutions in Denmark that have a real leadership, we have institutions that work. But it is also clear that in some institutions there is a need to look at management too, and I know that many municipalities are in the process of doing so. When I come back to the government's day-to-day offerings, there is, of course, to say that we are allocating just over 45 million. kr. in 2018 and 83 million; kr. in 2019 and every year until, inter alia, to employ more trained educators in the institutions where there are most children in vulnerable positions. It's social, so it wants something. We're gonna set up 60 million. kr. for a large experimental programme where the focal point among others is: are family groups in day-to-day provision and cooperate closely with health care for young children, where health care providers and educational staff, for example. together visiting families in need of additional support. That is what we call early action, and it is very, very important. Finally, we spend 170 million. kr. in the field of professional management training. That is also very, very important. And then we should remember that in December 2016, the Minister for Children and Social Affairs also put forward a bill that includes: As a result, municipalities are given the opportunity to assess language even earlier with a view to early action. That is also very, very important. So something is happening in this area which means that we will have a boost in the coming years. But when we come back to setting standards and having a minimum standard, I can see that what the red parties could agree on in their wording was also better standards and therefore no minimum standards. Now I understood from the alternative rapporteur that they are not in favour of it either, and I am a little calm that the government and the blue parties can, after all, find a common text on which we agree. And then I have to say that when you look at norms, in the vast majority of cases you see something with 3.4 children per child. adult in crèches and 5.9 in kindergartens. These are the actual figures, and again there is great satisfaction from parents and from children, and we should bear that in mind in this debate. Of course things can get better, but we have day offers that are so strong and of such a class that we are in top five in the world, so we can be really proud of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203332	Thank you, Mr Conservatives' rapporteur. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Jacob Mark. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203339	First of all, I would like to say that there are no true figures on actual norms, and I have not heard of those mentioned by the rapporteur before. I do not know of any figures showing that there should be 5.9 children per year. Pedagogics in kindergartens. In fact, we are waiting for a proper statement of standards to be drawn up, so I hope that the rapporteur can press his own minister to complete it. Then we could also discuss it instead of BUPL's inventory, which so far is one of the most right-wing things we have, because it sends out a picture taken from the real world. So I would like to ask something about this: does the rapporteur not think that it is serious when 75%. of 8,000 educators experience that they stand alone with a whole group of children? Isn't it serious? And, of course, the opposition has a common text. It is true that we do not have a common text on minimum standards. I would have liked to see that, but we have a common text on better standards. I wish the blue block had that, too. The last thing is another question: first I had it there with whether it was serious and that is: does the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, like the Liberal Alliance, think that we should allow the outsourcing of our day institutions so that we can make money running day care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203451	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203453	First with regard to norms: what I referred to was that I was inside looking for what the norming is today in my own municipality, Lemvig, and it is 3.4 and it is 5.9. Then I went to Copenhagen, and they have 3.5 and 6.0. I am not saying that this is the average, but I think that we are getting quite close, that it is around there, and these are indeed some norms that these institutions live with in the day-to-day. And no, I see nothing serious in these norms in these day care institutions, and I have to say to the questioner that if there is a teacher who is alone with 17 children out in a playground where they are playing football or something else, it is probably not the end of the world, but there must be two other educators who are either not there or are doing something else with a few children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203551	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203553	I think that is simply a political disagreement which we must leave there. And then, actually, just want to ask the other question: does the Conservative People's Party believe that it should be permitted for day institutions to be outsourced so that you can make money running day institutions in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203611	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203612	It is not conservative politics that we go out and outsource institutions. To me, it is not something that Conservatives have stood for in any municipality in Denmark, and I think it is good that it is in local government. There are many, many others, but there is nothing on the agenda of the Conservative People's Party to say that this is something we must promote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203634	Thank you. There are no more brief comments. And then the Minister for Children and Social Affairs has the floor. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203648	Thank you, President. And thank you for a very good and constructive debate, mostly on minimum standards and not quite as much about what the question might actually be about, namely measures that should break the negative social heritage. Let me just make it clear that, of course, we must work to ensure that negative social heritage has a less impact on the individual's life cycle than is the case today. Specifically, we in the government are now addressing the day-to-day issue because we know that early action is crucial and because the vast majority of children spend very important years there. And I actually find that there is broad support for both combating negative social heritage and also working for quality in day-to-day services, but there may be a difference in exactly what policies and efforts we each want to prioritise. So let us focus forward on our common goals and the things we are very well agreed on, and let us use it as a starting point for cooperation and for long-term work for even better day offers for the benefit of all children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203747	That was a brief comment, but there are other brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jakob Silverhøj from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203757	I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech that the latest available staff statistics from the day-off area show that there are just under 40,000 employees in day-care institutions and municipal day-care services who do not have educational training. Isn't that a very violent number? And will the Minister not take action to raise the level of education in day-to-day provision?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203834	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203835	Thank you for the questions. First of all, I would like to say that we have been working for a long time to achieve a more accurate standard. It is Danmarks Statistik who is responsible for preparing it, and the latest publication showed that it was very flawed. That is why I think that we are all going excited right now and awaiting the next round. I hope that will be the case this summer, in June, at least as far as I can remember. I would just like to say, on the level of education, that I really think that we are taking on the task. I mean, in the game, 170 million have been set aside. kr. for further training, partly for managers, partly for day care and partly for training the so-called professional lighthouses.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502203931	Well we in Enhedslisten and probably many with us are delighted that there will be a new chartering statement. But the figures I have mentioned are now clear enough, because they relate to the pay payments made by the municipalities to staff, and these are, I think, well under control. And then it turns out that there are these approximately. 40,000 who do not have an educational education. They're not all full-time employees, so if you convert it into full-time employees, there's 30,000. You can turn and turn it, but there are thus staggering numbers of people. You don't get a lot of training for 170 million. kr. There was a recent halfway through on educational assistant training with the tripartite agreement that had been made. So again: does the Minister not think that it is a big problem that there are so many employees in our day offer who do not have educational training? And is it not the case that the Minister will present other initiatives than the 170 million? kr. dedicated to competence development?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204037	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204039	But I would like to start by saying that when it comes to admission to, for example, the PAU, it is clear that there is a dimensioning • a dimensioning which, moreover, is supported by the Danish Parliament and is outside the Ministry of Children and Social Affairs. However, if we are to look inwards like this, I think that the strengthened educational curriculum helps to set a framework in which, more systematically and in a way that requires a more clear direction than in the past, the six curriculum themes are unfolded. And I really think that is important, because today the curriculum themes are typically described in such a way with keywords; perhaps a few words have been added. They're being used out there, I see. After I've been out, I've been able to see the wheel and that it's taken down really well. But I believe in this and fortunately the sector also believes that it is possible to create more quality by becoming more clear about what is understood by, for example, folding the curriculum themes of social competences and the versatile personal development more out, so that it becomes more clear in which direction to take.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204156	Sir. Jacob Mark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204157	Thanks for the speech. I have two questions. One is what I have also proposed to a number of other rapporteurs, and now I am putting it to the Minister: why should there be a class ceiling in primary school if there is not to be a minimum rating in the day institutions? What makes it that when the children are older, there has to be a regulation on how many children there can be per. grown up, but not when they're younger? The second question is: does the Minister agree with his rapporteur when the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party says that it is not serious if a teacher is alone with 17 children on the playground and that it is not serious when 75%? of the educators in the alone time study say that they experience being alone with whole groups of children almost an hour a day? Isn't it serious?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204247	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204248	But to the end, I can say to address it first that it is important that you can organise the work so that you can, for example, can take out a small group, for example 4-5 children, and do an intensive course with them. Then you may also have a slightly larger group on the playground, which is then under supervision and supervised by fewer. I actually think that if you use it as part of the educational work, that can be sensible enough. There is therefore a significant difference between primary and day school, namely that the primary school is divided into lessons. In primary school I think it is important to create the freedom to organise, among other things. by having a large group where you have one activity, and then a small group where you work intensively on a particular track, for example. social competences • it can be persistence, robustness, whatever it may be. When you say it's per. definition is always bad to have a large group of children, so I do not think you have quite understood the nuances of the educational work, because it may be meaningful to have a larger group of children on the playground and then have a smaller group of children within an activity.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204415	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204416	Why does it matter that the school is divided into lessons? Well, I don't understand. What makes it more necessary then to regulate how many children there are per year? grown-up? What is good at a class ceiling in primary school is that the lower the class ceiling, the easier it will be in principle to make division of teams, because then there will be a better rating per. child. That's why we want a lower class ceiling. An argument for minimum standards will be that there are more adults, and then it will be easier to make team sharing and leave the children to work with their social skills, while hopefully there will be a teacher with fewer children on the playground. I mean, I just don't understand the argument for having a class ceiling if you don't think it's a good idea to have regulation in the day institutions too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204501	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204502	Well, I guess we're obviously looking at the concept of learning in day-to-day offers very, very different, for sir. Jacob Mark compares a day in a kindergarten to a school day. After all, a school day is full of education and objectives, and I think we agree that there are a lot more objectives and common goals in the field of school than there are in the area of day-to-day provision. In fact, I thought that together we had got away from the whole preschool idea and that instead we looked at the concept of learning more broadly. But I understand that there may be a difference in that. As far as minimum standards are concerned, I would just like to say that, for me, it is important to be able to decide locally that just one particular institution needs one more educator, needs two more assistants or needs an economist, so that you can do your own thing, in terms of how you plan what each institution has of norms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204607	Then I shall give the floor to one of our bilingual colleagues, Mrs Lotte Rod from South Jutland. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204616	What we are doing here is question No. F 42 to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs on the norms in the country's day-care institutions, and when I was reading through the blue parties' proposals for adoption, I was just wondering why there is not a single word on the norms or what you think about the norms or whether there should be better standards. And then I just want to ask the Minister right here: why not write something about the norms when the debate is about norms in the day institutions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204651	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204652	This must be such a coincidence, where you really just walk away with rocks while you live in a glass house. Because what I see the question is about is how to break the negative social heritage. There has not been much about this in the debate, and this is really, really, really a pity, because in the proposal that has been made, there are in fact a number of different measures, each of which aims to reduce the negative social heritage. When we do not address it in a proposal for adoption, it is because we do not think there should be a standard or a minimum standards at local level. Then, of course, we can look at the Red Block's proposal for adoption that even in the question debate that has been called for, we cannot agree to actually write in minimum standards. Let us be quite honest now, when we are just standing here a little in nine: minimum standards are not going to happen when there is no agreement in the red bloc, and when changing governments are, by the way, with ministers from both the SF and Radicals in the mail have not given priority to doing so. Why has it not been given priority? Well, it's first of all because it's insanely expensive. We are talking about in the vicinity of 2 billion. kr. This is interesting enough every year, given that the Radicals also believe that a further 1 billion should be added. kr. extra for training. Secondly, and I am just concerned to say so, it is not necessarily the right way to go. A minimum rating can be both rigid and unwise in terms of neglecting the fact that there are municipalities which are already prioritising resources so that they get to work in the best possible way and where there is a need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204838	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204840	I would just like to try to ask the same question again, because this question is called "Question about the standards in the country's day care institutions," and I am just surprised that the government is not answering that question. So why has it not been described about the current standards?
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204900	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204901	There I simply have to correct the radical rapporteur because the question is: the government has stated in the government's constitution that the social heritage must be broken, so how will the government in the forthcoming municipal agreement and with the forthcoming day-offer reform (and the corresponding 580 million). kr.) ensure that those ambitions are met and will the government stand up to the goal of ensuring that the standards in the country's day-care institutions do not deteriorate in the coming years, but are improved? ▪ So, the focus of this question debate is on how to break the negative social heritage, and then a text for adoption has been made, which is in fact fully agreed in the blue block. It can hardly be said that the same consensus on norms is to be found in the red block.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204938	Then I would like to thank the Minister for Children and Social Affairs for today's work. The next one is the rapporteur for the questions, sir. Jacob Mark. That is, as far as I can see, the last speaker unless others sign up along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502204957	Thank you for the debate. I'm gonna make this a little short. I think this has been a good debate. It is true that there has not been much talk about the negative social heritage and how we break it, but it may well be that we can find an opportunity to discuss it soon, because it is an exciting subject. If nothing else, I am sure that we can discuss it when we talk about what the new day-offer reform should finally look like. There is one thing I should like to say, because the question of standards has now been filled with a great deal. I think that when it takes up a lot, it is because it has an impact on how to break the negative social heritage, because trained staff and trained staff are of course important to the ability to succeed in breaking the negative social heritage. Then there is the whole question of minimum standards. It's not rich to have it. I buy the argument that it is expensive and that you can prioritise differently and that it will be difficult to get through. We have also struggled with this in the previous government, where we managed to get 760 million. kr. off. But it is simply not rich. It is absolutely necessary to regulate the number of children per year. adult. That is also why I have repeatedly asked whether it is rich to have a class ceiling. Apparently, the Liberal Alliance thinks it is, which is interesting. But I don't know a lot of people who would say it's rich to have a class ceiling. A class ceiling is a way to ensure that there are enough adults for the children. With the desire for minimum standards, I do not say exactly how a day-care institution is to organise the individual day or which staff are to be used locally. I'm just saying, here's a rating, and you can use it. Perhaps that is also what the alternative says when they say that there must be a sum of money to ensure that they have proper standards at their disposal at local level. Finally, I would just like to say that it was exciting to hear the different points from the different parties. It's fun to get a little deeper into it. Now I look forward to discussing day-offer reform and I hope that all parties will be invited. I understand that some money has been found in the Finance Act, which, of course, the Finance Law parties have a special right to control. However, throughout the issue of the day-to-day legislation and the question of what it will look like in the future, I think it could be good for all of our children if we could agree on this together. I hope so and recommend it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502205217	Thank you, sir. Jacob Mark. There were no more comments, and that is the end of the debate. The vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 4 May 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170502205236	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting than to thank everyone for their efforts in the service of the people. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Wednesday 3 May 2017 at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
