ParlaMint-DK_20170203100054	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl (DF) and others.: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 63 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the admission of students in youth education for young people with special needs (STU) to the purchase of youth cards). Maria Reumert Gjerding (EL), Christian Poll (ALT), Martin Lidegaard (RV) and Pia Olsen Dyhr (SF): Motion for a resolution No. Β 64 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on an analysis of the phasing-out of fossil passenger cars). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170203100139	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203100211	The debate is open. It's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203100231	Thank you to the proposers of the SF for the motion for a resolution on the possibility of correcting incorrect health data that we are discussing today. This is, of course, an important debate which I believe concerns us all across parties, but it is also a debate in which it is important to focus on different considerations and, above all, on patient safety. The motion for a resolution proposes that, in exceptional and individual cases, it should be possible for citizens to have data deleted from the file. The Court is proposed to be limited to very serious errors and only on application to an expert authority. It is, of course, not possible and allowed to delete data from a patient's medical record, and this is because the medical record serves as a working tool for health professionals. And although a misdiagnostic may be a misdiagnostic, it may also have led to mistreatment, and therefore it is also important that one does not have incomplete documentation if the patient subsequently wishes to complain about the course and complain about the diagnoses as well as decisions that have been made. The report shall document and ensure continuity in the treatment of patients, and the record shall also form the basis for information to the patient, and the record shall serve as an internal means of communication and working tool for health care personnel. As has also been said, the Journal is an important part of the documentation and handling of patient complaints and claims, and it is important to keep in mind, because it is basically about the legal certainty of our patients. Therefore, it can also be important in cases of regulatory supervision of authorised healthcare professionals and in relation to e.g. criminal proceedings. It's important, and it's really important to the government that we have this very, very sharp focus on patient safety when we discuss these cases, including possible options for future deletion of seriously incorrect information. If it is widely made possible to delete erroneous information in a journal, one might fear that it may have a number of unfortunate consequences. There may be a real risk that the course of treatment appears incomplete or misleading and may have negative consequences for an ongoing course of treatment or any future appeal or compensation proceedings. It may also have an impact on any legal proceedings relating to succession or access to specific work functions or positions. And there may also be a risk of misuse of a deletion option, for some may have different interests. That is why it is also essential that we keep patient safety at the top, even when we are discussing what we, at least from the government, would like to discuss in the future, namely whether there may be very special cases where it may be necessary to expand the opportunities that exist today. It is also important that we have national uniformity, that we have a clear legal assessment of what false information is. What are erroneous information that may subsequently have an impact on a patient's progress, including a course of complaints and compensation? In an assessment that forms the basis for the discussion of possible deletion in the future, it is important that we keep patient safety up as the most important thing. Of course, we all have an interest in the fact that the information contained in the medical records is as accurate as possible. Therefore, it is already possible to correct or add in the medical record so that incorrect information can be corrected if necessary, but it is not done in such a way as to delete the previous data, and that is precisely for the sake of patient safety. This is done in a way that preserves the original text and also shows who made the correction, when it was made and under what framework. The conditions also ensure that it can be seen in the future what the defect was and that therefore you will always have a full overview of the patient's course of treatment. As a patient, you can already complain about a refusal to correct. That is also why the government cannot support the resolution as it stands. We think it is too broad and too imprecisely formulated and has too little focus on patient safety, but we would like from the government to look at the possibilities of erase outright erroneous information in patient records in the exceptional cases. There will be situations that we have been able to read about in the press. I think some of the things that have given rise to, among other things. the debate today, were some specific cases from the autumn, where the erroneous information can be highly offensive and also highly stigmatizing for the individual. That is why I have also asked the Ministry of Health and the Elderly to undertake a work so that we can examine how we can establish a model so that highly erroneous and misleading information in the medical records can be deleted without compromising patient safety. It must therefore be absolutely clear in legal terms. There must also be national uniformity in this area. It will also require us to find a model which is both unbureaucratic and provides adequate protection against abuse of the system. That is why it is also important that we use the time needed to examine how such a setup should be, so that it is legally strong enough to be able to deal with any deletions of actual incorrect information. This could cost resources, also because a possible use should be able to be dealt with in a purely IT way. That's why it's important that we get a thorough look at this. It is a work which the government is now initiating and which is also the reason why we cannot immediately support the motion for a resolution as it stands because we believe that it should be examined in greater detail. I would very much like to keep the committee informed and look forward to a good discussion also for the sake of the highly erroneous and patient safety, which must always be at the heart, including when we talk about incorrect information in the medical records.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203100901	Thank you. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203100912	The motion for a resolution, as the Minister has said, concerns the deletion of highly erroneous health information contained in patients' hospital records. I would like to thank the SF for making this proposal. It is true that we will have this issue clarified and debated politically. The medical records are, after all, the health care professionals' working tool, which gathers all information about the patient's illness, diagnosis, treatment, etc. After all, the report is used as a communication framework for changing staff in the health service and also in the various hospitalizations and contacts that the citizen may have with the health service. The Journal must ensure collection and continuity of the patient's entire course of illness and what health care has done. Health professionals write in the journal, and those who deal with the patient's treatment also have the opportunity to read what has been written in the record in the past. The patient also has the right to read the entire contents of the medical record. The motion for a resolution deals with the very unfortunate situation in which, for example, we are dealing with a situation in which, for example, we are dealing with a situation in which we are not in a position to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. The doctor is given an absolutely incorrect and possibly grossly offensive record, i.e. grossly erroneous data which could jeopardise the patient's legal certainty. As the Health Act says today, such information cannot be removed, even if the patient and possibly the doctor who has noted the record may agree that it is a mistake. Elsewhere in the journal it can be written that it is not correct, but it is the case that the journal is a continuous document, and what you have first read has been read, and then you may only have to see much later in the record a correction of something that is wrong. The safest option should be sought for us to change in the future so that, in very specific situations, information contained in the medical record can be deleted. I would have liked us in the Committee on Health to have a debate on this issue before the motion for a resolution was tabled, because I think we could have had some consequences, but also some challenges, highlighted before then. I very much hope, and it is entirely in line with what the Minister for Health has said, that we will now have a discussion in committee and, as I understand it, there will also be a discussion on this in the Ministry of Health. There is a new structure for boards under the Ministry of Health with both the Danish Health Data Protection Agency and the Danish Patient Safety Authority. On the Socialist side, we have at first thought that it might be obvious where to place such a legal body and office, which can take care of the assessment of these very special cases. It is really important to say that it is not a matter of disagreement about a doctor's idea or attitude. These are very special cases where it is compromising and with the words that the Minister also used can help to stigmatise a citizen and patient. I don't want it to be like that. But we also need to make sure that the patient's health record can become a continuous document that ensures the documentation for treatment and investigation, precisely in order for patient safety to be maintained throughout. On the Socialist side, we clearly see that the intention of the motion for a resolution here is exactly the right one. I believe that the process presented by the Minister is the right one to go, and that is why we are going to take a very constructive and critical view of the possible further examination of this motion for a resolution, but also of the fact that a process is being set in motion with the possibility of deleting completely incorrect information which might have been introduced into the file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203101319	Thank you. There are no comments, and then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203101327	I would also like to start by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution. This is one of the cases that we have also dealt with in the Danish People's Party, because we thought it was an incredibly strong experience to hear a mother who could tell how her son had been defined from a journal record. It is quite often that we are contacted by people who want diagnoses or the like deleted from their records, but many times there is the connection that doctors have taken a position on what has now been in relation to the patient who has been made some observations, and therefore it is also important, as others have said, that you can go back into a file and see incorrect information, both in relation to whether it is the staff's or the citizen's legal position to look at. As the law stands today, doctors and other health professionals must follow the legal rules, and it is stated in the Statutory Order on the Medical Records of Authorised Healthcare Persons: §1. Data contained in the health record shall not be erased or made unreadable. Pieces 2. Where it is necessary to correct or add in the medical record, this shall be done in such a way as to preserve the original text. It shall be indicated who made the correction or addition and when. Pieces 3. In an electronic health record, the original version of the information modified by correcting or adding shall remain available. It sounds very good to be able to correct it, but there are such cases as the one referred to in the broadcast from the Danish Radio, where it was a piece of information that everyone agreed is incorrect and that has been illegally admitted and contains highly offensive information. For this man, this means that you have to read through 4 pages of journal recordings to get to the description and the few sentences that say that none of it is in accordance with the truth. I know it is rare for our doctors, especially with the busyness in hospitals and in the treatment system, to read forward 4 pages to read that some information has nothing on it. That alone means we have to look at how the system works. We had a very good meeting with the Minister of Health yesterday, where we talked about health data, and there we got an introduction to the new platform you are making, and it was actually incredibly interesting for us as health rapporteurs to know how to use this system and how some information can be stored. You can by putting the flybones decide who should read what, what is important, so you don't have to go through a whole lot of pages to reach a conclusion. Today it is often the case that you have to start over on a journal and read through all the information to get to the actual. So it certainly made me a little smarter on how we can use our data in the future, so it is not only the information that is deeply offensive, but also some of the corrections that have been made elsewhere that you can go in and do something about. I think it is really important that we have this debate, and the Danish People's Party agrees that something needs to be done, but, as the others have also said, we need to look at how we can secure the legal position both for the staff and for the citizens, and how we ensure that some records, such as for example. The ones you've been able to see in these individual cases come all the way out of a file. But I also think we should look at how we can ensure that some information that does not need to be accessible to others can be stored. We know exactly from our meeting yesterday that this is possible, and in the future we can make it much simpler to read exactly what is important and not all that bypass. So I look forward to getting started on the work of the committee and I am very pleased that the Minister is also in favour. It sounds as if we can at least reach an agreement today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203101800	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203101807	Thank you for that, President. Today we are debating a motion for a resolution on the possibility of deleting incorrect health data. Several of my colleagues have already explained the content of the proposal in an excellent way, but I would like to stress that in the Left we see the medical record as a document of both great and significant importance and safety for both the patient and the patient. There is no doubt that I have great sympathy with the boy, who is the main character of the DR documentary in the journal and who, of course, forms the basis of the motion for a resolution here. It sounds like there's really been a mistake in his case. However, we must keep our tongues straight in our mouths and we must be very careful as politicians to legislate on the basis of individual cases. There is a reason why we have the rules that we have. Does this mean that we should not look at whether the existing regulatory framework is optimal? No, it won't, and I'll get back to it. If we in the Left do not believe that we should open up completely in order to be able to delete health data, then it is because it can have unintended consequences. For us in the Left, it is crucial that patient safety is at the heart. If we are to maintain patient safety, a medical record must not become a living or liquid document. There must and must be a firm framework. The recording of the individual patient's health data is a means of ensuring that the patient is given the right treatment and is properly assessed. It is also a guarantee for the patient in cases where, for example, there is a risk of death. has occurred a treatment or medication defect and where the patient wishes to seek compensation. You have to be able to go back and see the course of events. If we first open up the possibility of deleting data from the health record, then we risk that important information will be lost, information that may be crucial for both health care professionals and patients as well. And today we have an opportunity to correct incorrect health data. It just has to happen in a way that doesn't blur or erase what's already listed in the file. In this way, we ensure both the patient and the health care staff. However, as I mentioned earlier, we in the Left are open to a discussion as to whether we have the correct set of rules to act on. I understand very well that, as a patient, there has been an obvious or incontrovertibly erroneous record of your file, and it may seem appropriate to correct the error in individual and specific cases. It can, for example, be done. It is true that there has been a record of a judgment which has not been received and which may have an impact on your further progress, or that data have been written in the journal, which in fact belongs to another patient, to mention just a few thought examples which might be worth considering. However, it is essential that we get the fence in, so it is clear to everyone that just because you disagree with the doctor or you want a previous diagnosis deleted, it will not be possible to delete all the information. There are already quite good opportunities for us to make a statement, for example. disagrees with the doctor who writes your file. On the Left side, I would like to say that we would very much like to make a contribution under the auspices of the committee. It could, for example, be done. be in the form of a joint report. If we do not support the motion for a resolution here, it is partly because we think it is very broad, but it is also because there is no provision for funding for the expert body that the proposers want. However, as I have said, we are in favour of looking at the possibility of adjusting legislation and, in exceptional cases, opening up the possibility of deleting incorrect information if we can find a model that does not compromise patient safety.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203102200	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203102208	Thank you. Many wise things have already been said about this proposal, and I think it is important from the outset to stress that the concern already expressed by some rapporteurs, I think we all share. After all, it is not a question of some of us thinking that you should simply be able to enter patient records freely, precisely because patient records are a very important tool. But this is not a proposal arising from a single case that has been in the press. That comes because we can also hear that it is a general problem. That is why I would also like to start by thanking the SF for making this proposal, and I would also like to say that we in the Enhedslist clearly support the intentions contained in the proposal. The medical record is an essential tool for health professionals today. It is here that all information on treatment and diagnosis is provided, and it is an absolutely necessary tool to ensure that information on patient information can be shared among the healthcare professionals responsible. Therefore, it is also absolutely essential, for the sake of patient safety, that you cannot simply change or delete a medical record. For example: There can of course be a health care professional who has made an error of treatment, and there it must of course be the case that the health care professional cannot simply go in to change or correct that information. This is an essential guarantee in relation to further treatment, but it is also for the sake of a possible question of compensation. That's why, of course, you shouldn't just be able to change a medical record. When we support this proposal, it is because we are just seeing examples that quite serious and erroneous information is shown in the record. They can't just be erased. They can be corrected today, but in concrete terms this means that the incorrect information remains at the top of the medical record and that you have to go far into the file to find the possible correction. Therefore, health professionals will very easily be able to get an erroneous view or perhaps never see the correction there is. It can lead to mistreatments, and it can also lead to erroneous stigmatisation. It must always be the case that legal certainty for the individual citizen is at all times more important than the Health Act's injunction that records should not be deleted. Therefore, incorrect information which may present a direct danger to the individual should not be filed in the same place as correct information. The possibility of allowing access to delete must be opened up. It must, of course, be absolutely essential that there is agreement between the care officer who has made the misinformation and the patient, and that there is an expert authority that can verify that these are serious errors. If these assumptions are available, then it should be possible to enter to correct data or delete data from a medical record. Today it is the case that through health.dk it is possible to block access to journal information, but on the one hand the barrier can be relatively easily removed by the health professional, and on the other hand the whole file can be blocked. It is not appropriate if it is only a simple grave error that one wants to block. Unfortunately, we have experienced examples where patients have had serious misinformation inserted into their medical records. It's not something that should happen, but it happens. This happens for many different reasons. It may be busy or there may be all sorts of other reasons for it, but we must, of course, constantly work to minimise the risk of errors. However, we must note that the risk is present. It is therefore quite reasonable that we should include an opportunity to delete serious errors in medical records, especially because otherwise patients may suffer legal certainty and treatment options in health care. That is why the Enhedslisten supports the intentions of the proposal, and I believe that, on the basis of the comments which have, incidentally, now fallen around the proposal, we can agree that we in the committee can certainly work together a reasonable solution to correct the lack of opportunity to delete gravely erroneous information in a medical file today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203102609	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203102618	Thank you. I think it is a very relevant problem that is raised here. It turns out, of course, that even if obvious errors have been written down in one's file, they cannot be deleted, and that is totally unacceptable and, of course, something that we must take very seriously and look at how we can change. In other situations, however, for the sake of patients' rights, it may be wrong to delete data, as this may result in the record being incomplete or misleading. This may have a negative impact on the patient's course of treatment and may put the patient at a disadvantage in a possible complaint and with regard, for example, to: Patient replacement during maltreatment. It is therefore important to draw up a model in which clearly erroneous and misleading information can be deleted without compromising overall patient safety, and we also need to find out who has to delete data and how it should be done. It is a work that I think we should work very hard on in committee, and I would therefore suggest that further progress be made there. I certainly support the intention of this resolution, but I will nevertheless vote 'no' as it stands because I do not believe that it covers all aspects of patient safety. However, as I said, we need to find a solution to how we deal with erroneous health data and I look forward to very thorough work in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203102749	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203102758	Thank you. I would also like to start by thanking the SF for having tabled this resolution which we welcome and also the debate we have here today. I think it is important to discuss how we, as citizens, can be confident that we get the right treatment and that our data and information are managed in a good and sound way. Today, as several of you have mentioned, Danish doctors, dentists, nurses and other health professionals can log in to the health portal and look at our personal health information without our permission. There are some very clear health benefits to be gained from this. The most important thing is that it makes it easier to provide the best and most effective treatment, because the doctor or nurse has the opportunity to read up on the patient's history and use that knowledge. So the purpose is to provide access to data that strengthens the treatment and the patient's safety. Nevertheless, there is also the example from P1 about this boy, which several people have also mentioned, and so I am not going to mention any more about it here, but which has certainly not had the opportunity to delete some completely wrong data. But there is another example that I have come across, which is from TV 2/South, and which is about a woman who has been wrongly enrolled in her file, that she has had a obesity operation, that she has diabetes and has had intestinal cancer. It is some information that comes from a completely different patient and that has been wrongly recorded in the woman's file. So today there is a real risk that incorrect information can have a decisive impact on the treatment, and at worst this could mean that the staff in good faith are carrying out completely wrong treatment, because the file contains the totally wrong information that could have fatal consequences. And one thing is that it can have these fatal consequences for the patient's health, but is another thing is that it can have deep personal consequences. How would we feel ourselves if there were some completely wrong information in our records, i.e. if there were, for example, Did he say that there was a suspicion of alcohol abuse, that there was a suspicion of paedophilia or sensual crime? I can at least say for myself that I would not think it was very funny and that I would be very sorry if the information could not be deleted. Of course, it is human to make mistakes. We all make mistakes, and we all make mistakes, but when we discover mistakes, we are also obliged to do everything we can to correct them so that they do not repeat themselves. This applies in life as in every other relationship, and at least here too, where mistakes affect other people. So in the alternative, we agree with the proposers that we should require the government to put forward a legislative proposal so that in future it will be possible to delete certain information if there is grossly incorrect information.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103109	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103119	Thank you. It is so terrible when, as a human being and as a parent, you experience that something quite wrong has been written in your child's record and you stand powerless and desperately left and can do nothing to delete the information. That is why I and we in the Radical Left would like to help find a model which would allow data to be deleted, but so that it should be possible to see that data has been deleted. Because, as the Minister also mentioned in his speech, if there has been a mistreatment, it means that you can see it and then have the opportunity to take it into account. That is why it is not good as it is today, when one can go in and write that something is wrong, but treats it a bit like journalists who, when they are at the very worst and have made a cover that is wrong, then come up with a note on page 9 that, by the way, it was wrong. Well, there has to be balance in it so that when things are wrong, you don't log into the journal and only see the wrong thing going out all over the place. That is why I am very pleased with the extended hand that the Minister is bringing with him today. We in the Radical Left would like to welcome that hand because, like some of the other rapporteurs, I think that the motion for a resolution, which is a little too unconcrete, but at the same time I am pleased to hear that we all agree in this House that this is something we must find a solution to, and I will certainly do my part to ensure that we manage to find a common solution in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103310	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103320	Thank you. I would like to acknowledge that it is extremely insulting and stigmatizing with erroneous information in one's file, which is stamped because of erroneous and misleading information or misunderstandings, and that that information is then stuck with you in life in the future. Conservatives would therefore like to continue working in committee to see whether there is a possibility to delete or correct strongly erroneous journal information. However, we see that there may be challenges in being able to delete or correct information in relation to e.g. complaints and insurance cases, since a course of treatment may appear incomplete or misleading and there may be a risk that the possibility of deleting may also be misused. And who should have access to delete the incorrect information? We would very much like to see these challenges clarified further in the further work of the committee, and we can therefore support what the Minister also said about looking at it further in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103440	Thank you. And then I take the note thank you for being kind, but you just don't say it that way. Just for another time! It's perfectly legal to be new. Here you go. Then it is the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103456	Thank you. First of all, thank you for the largely positive feedback from both the Minister and the rapporteurs on this motion for a resolution, which, moreover, is the first I have made in this Chamber. Next week I have 1⁄2 anniversary as a member of parliament, and I therefore acknowledge that it can sometimes be difficult to get that christian castle under my skin, but I think it actually also suits the tanned ones when they sometimes take part in stepping a little beside the too rigid frames. It's not important to be right, I think. It's important to solve this problem. First of all, I am concerned that we are taking care that patients can count on them to receive fair and good treatment in the Danish healthcare system. And if we have created a system in which that is not always the case, we must do our best to adjust the system so that it is again possible. It has hurt far into the soul to witness the mother who has fought so earnestly to ensure his son's justice in relation to a misinformation in the medical record, who is doing her son wrong and harming him; Mrs Liselott Blixt and others have already explained the circumstances of the case and told us that one has to go back on page 4 to see that this is a grave error at all. This mother had given up hope of being heard. I'm really, really glad that we seem to be able to put her discouragement to shame. I absolutely agree with the rapporteurs that it should not be possible for the parties themselves to delete incorrect information. I absolutely agree with the rapporteurs that the certainty that data cannot be deleted is both a safety for the patient and for the staff. However, it is always the exception that confirms the rule, and that is the exception that this proposal is about: the possibility, when both the doctor and the patient agree that there has been an error, that then, by means of perhaps a third instance, you can delete incorrect information, but not through a new appeal body. It would be very good to have a solution where you can also see that there has been a correction. It'll be fine for me. Nor do I think we should have more bureaucracy. We just need to focus on solutions, which is why I am also looking forward to further discussion in committee. And thank you for the outstretched hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103727	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then no one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103746	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 7 February 2017. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten, for a reason. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203103809	When we in the Enhedslisten have called this question, it is on the basis of the debate over the pressure in the public hospital system over the last few months. The attentive of us have also been able to see that some of the real experts in the Palace Square have been in front of us: some of the health workers who are affected by the pressure on working conditions. They are among other things. gathered in what is called the Welfare Alliance. It is a debate that has clearly revealed and documented working conditions that are under pressure, which goes beyond quality, patient safety and the working environment. Therefore, with today's debate, we hope that the parties of the Folketing will agree to show action now. We support the demands of the regions and health professionals: enough must be enough; productivity requirements must be removed. The pressure on quality can be seen in the increase in unintended events. And it is even, although we know very well that it is far from all of them that are reported, among other things. Because there's no time for that. The rigid control objectives create absurdities, such as: at the Orthopedic Department of Gentofte Hospital, where it is so that although medical staff and patients experience better quality in rehabilitation rather than surgery, surgery often becomes the solution, not for professionalism and patients, but for excelark reasons. That patient safety is under pressure, we can see from the rise in patient complaints. The number of patient complaints has been increasing in recent years, as we know from the Patient Offers. We also know it from many of the orders that have come from the Danish Labour Inspectorate after their visits to Danish hospital departments, such as: The case from the intensive section of the Anesthesiological Department in Køge, where hard-pressed personnel were forced to compromise their professional skills and turn up the sedative medication in hospital because they had to take care of other tasks. The fact that the working environment is under pressure is shown by the many orders from the Danish Labour Inspectorate. More than half of the nurses report that the ability to solve their core tasks at a professionally sound level is always or often under pressure. Or when midwives flee from the maternity wards because of unfair working conditions, or a total staff at the Psychiatric Hospital in Risskov, make a common call to the politicians about seriously dangerous conditions for staff and patients. The picture is quite clear: if the government and the Danish Parliament maintain the everlasting pressure of efficiency, any additional allocation will be eaten up by the general savings. This was confirmed last time the Committee on Health and Consumer Protection held a hearing on the state of life. There was the message from the chief doctors of Odense, Aalborg and Rigshospitalet that, despite opposition and deterioration on the part of the government, the extra grant had actually disappeared into planned savings. We must have a fight with productivity requirements and the totally rigid target management. That is why we have reported the question here today, so that the government can explain the consequences of productivity requirements in terms of quality and working conditions and patient safety. It is in the hope that the government and parliament will undertake to be part of the solution rather than the problem, faced with the consequences of current policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203104112	Thank you. And then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203104126	Thank you for the question about the productivity requirement in health care. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the government's focus is on patients, on the quality and patient safety of the Danish healthcare system. And the latest criticism of the busyness of the hospitals, among others. In the maternity wards, as well as the history of unnecessary treatment, e.g. A knee operation and its fatal consequence are, of course, something that we take seriously and listen to. When more doctors and nurses, and in particular midwives, report that the pressure of work is too great and the cup is soon flowing over, we must, of course, listen, and so do we. This question is perhaps also an expression of the fact that everyone is concerned that we not only have a health service that is strong for patients, but that we are also concerned about the working environment and the quality and patient safety in the health sector. This is one of the things that we, as a government, attach great importance to, and that is something that we must constantly develop, because there must be proper conditions for the almost 110,000 employees we have in the Danish healthcare system who make a difference to our patients every day and provide very good service and care and a competent medical as well as nursing care. This is one of the benefits of our patients in hospitals, but also generally in health care, every day and every year. Patient safety must be high. It must be safe to be a patient in the Danish healthcare system, and it is not intended that anyone should become more ill by going to the hospital or experiencing that the course of treatment they receive does not focus precisely on what ultimately makes them healthy and ensures that they can move on. Waste as well as mis-operations and re-hospitals must be avoided, and work must, of course, be done on this. That's some of the government's focus. We must then also focus on the fact that our total resources in the field of health are being targeted. The former Left Government added last year, together with the Finance Law Parties, the Danish People's Party, the Conservative and Liberal Alliance, 2.4 billion. kr. extra for health care alone in 2016. A further 0.7 billion will be added here in 2017. kr. extra for health care. We have also, most recently with a historical cancer plan IV, helped to increase both the economy and health capacity. So when you sometimes get the impression, not least on the part of the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, that savings are being made, I have to say that this is not the case. This government, as well as the Left Government, has contributed more money to the Danish healthcare system, and we have done so because we give priority to a health service in Denmark. We have done this together with our co-operation parties, two of which are now part of the new three-clover government, and the Danish People's Party. It is because, as parties, we have chosen to say that it is important also to provide resources where there is a need to ensure better treatment, more quality and focus on how to ensure a better course for patients. For a safe and good healthcare system is a pillar of our welfare society. However, the health sector is also a major innovative and technological sector, and this means that the productivity requirements that have been in hospitals since the 1990s have helped to develop our health services. Our healthcare system is not stationary, and the focus on new technology with new scanners and new treatment methods has also helped to ensure better conditions for patients, better cancer survival and a wide range of things that have just benefited patients. It is also reduced waiting lists and that we constantly have the discussion on how to use our resources in the best way possible. If there are places where you can streamline and get technology in, then it can free up resources that you can use for warm hands and care elsewhere in our healthcare system. That is why changing governments have also maintained a productivity requirement, because the fact that we are constantly looking at where our health services can develop is also about getting more targeted health for the money and ensuring that patients as well as employees are at the heart of the development of our health care. Therefore, it is also important to say that the gains that have been of the productivity requirement have not been attributed to the State. It is money that has remained in the regions, and there has been no annual austerity requirement. It has been a reconversion outside the region, where the money has remained in a health care system and where priority has been given in some places as well as elsewhere, because some tasks have been freed up. The money is among other things. This is part of the productivity requirement, which I know is not the version that Enhedslisten's rapporteur sings about, but which is, in fact, part of the development. If you look at it, you can see that since 2003 health care has had a productivity growth of 2.4 per cent, that is more than agreed. And you could ask yourself why they've had it. They have probably done so because they have also been focused on reaping the benefits of some of the innovation and technological developments that have taken place in the health service for the benefit of patients. But of course you have to keep looking at how to do it, how to manage in a good way, how to focus not only on activity, but also on quality, patient safety and developing our common healthcare system. Of course, the requirement of productivity leads to a management focus in the regions, but that also includes taking responsibility for it. As I said before, the requirement of productivity has helped to ensure both the deployment of new technologies and better working procedures, the reduction of waiting lists and the release of resources for warm hands in health care every year. And so it has been beneficial to more patients. Therefore, one can also ask oneself whether what Enhedslisten wants is that we should not use new technologies, that we should not keep looking at whether we can do things better and better for patients. To the contrary, it is not said that we should constantly look at how we can optimise our health services for the benefit of both patients and employees. We have a health service that is constantly evolving, and it will also develop over the coming years. It is characterised by technological possibilities, and it is characterised by new research achievements, new knowledge of what works, and new knowledge of processes that can be combined in a different way. And that is why we must constantly focus on how we can use new medicines, on better and smarter workflows, where work slips between the employee groups are also part of looking at how we organise our health care. Our primary purpose as a government is to focus on the quality and value of patients, and patient processes that are faster and more effective, among other things. Thanks to new technology. If, for example, we do not know what to do. Takes an operation for intestinal cancer, which is now performed as a binocular surgery instead of a conventional operation, so it has meant that today's hospitalization time is about 6 days instead of 12 days and that today's treatment costs DKK 70,000. instead of 100,000 kroner. After all, this has not affected patient safety or the value and quality of the patient. It has actually led to a more gentle treatment of the patient, and it has saved resources for the hospitals and had the importance that Mr. Jensen or Mrs Hansen have returned to their everyday lives more quickly. That is why I think we should also focus on what we are actually discussing. Because we are not talking about not developing our health care. At least we don't do that as a government. When we have invested 47 billion over the last few years. kr. In new hospital building, it's not just about new bricks or delicious design. It is also about an investment in the Danish healthcare system, which should make it possible to organise the workflows in a better way, get more coherent patient processes and better logistics, something more efficient and something more up-to-date, and also something where the operational costs are less. That is why it is also part of talking about productivity and efficiency in our health care. It is clear that this investment must of course benefit patients. Of course, what is being saved on building operations must be used on warm hands, patients' progress and good quality of treatment. This is one of the things we should do. It does not mean that we should not discuss whether the way in which we manage makes sense everywhere. I am also seeing places where management has not taken care of themselves precisely to make priorities and look at where it makes sense and where it does not make sense, but where it has just become such a flat green harvesting model, which, as such, contributes neither to quality nor good patient safety, and where it has become an excelark and a steering tool, more than it has become a position on where it is, we can get more health for the money and, in that sense, we need to free up resources that can be used to invest for the benefit of patients and for the benefit of staff. It is the responsibility of the regions to make the best possible use of the demand and also to constantly think where it makes sense and where it makes no sense. The same decision on efficiency is not necessarily good or appropriate in all parts of the country or necessarily good or appropriate in all departments. There are not the same possibilities for changing treatments in a feeding process as there are for example. is if you buy a new scanner. And that is why it is also important for us to bear in mind that one thing is a principle of governance, but another is to ensure that management takes a position in everyday life and that the right priorities are set in our health services. If we look at dialysis and some of the options that are available in relation to a number of our chronic patients, we see that with telemedicine today there is a completely different opportunity to organise work than there was in the past. Of course, we must benefit from this. It is quality for patients and it is quality for our overall healthcare system, but it can also free up resources that we can then use to ensure better quality elsewhere in our healthcare system. That is why it is clear that there is no point in 2%. a little translated into such a liver pie management in some places, where you just put it out as a green harvester in all departments, and where you don't ask where it is, it makes sense; where it doesn't make sense; where it is, it has little or no effect on the patient; and where it is, it leads to waste, instead of leading to the release of resources. This is also the discussion I find that many employees have been raising in recent times, namely that they do not feel that there has been a sufficient value in how our health services should develop; that it does not make sense for the birth doctor or for the midwife if the requirement is translated into a 2% birthday. more quickly; but that it makes real sense if it becomes a valuable and managemental discussion of where it is that we can both make patient processes better and hospitalization shorter. That is why I think it is quite relevant that we are discussing this, and the government is happy to do so. And I have also said that it is kicking in an open door, because some of what we would like to work on is also continuing to focus on are the experiments that have been going on over the past year and that we have agreed with the regions to set up; setting up eight national targets that focus precisely on quality; the fact that, in the economic agreement with the regions, we have just agreed to work on the accreditation model, which was bureaucratic and took time. Then we will have the discussion that not only will it be governance principles, but that it will be a quality development of our healthcare system, where we will of course also dare to free resources where resources can be released and where we aim to keep the money in our overall healthcare system, thereby helping to raise not only the quality of the patients, but also the employee satisfaction of the employees elsewhere in our healthcare system. That is why I can only agree with the employees who point out that it is of no use that it becomes an excelarch management principle, but that it has to be value-related and management-based. As far as the OECD figures are concerned, they also point out that there are 10% internationally. of the treated patients who are exposed to adverse events and that slightly more than 10%. of hospital costs are used to remedy accidental incidents. That is what we need to focus on, because it is resources that do neither the employees nor the patients any good. We therefore need to look at in the coming years both with the regions, we as a government and also as health politicians in here how to ensure that we there get health and quality for the benefit of the patient of the resources that are being used in an inappropriate way today. It is to me to see the important discussion when we talk about productivity. It is not about stopping development; it is about looking at how we spend the money in our health care, how we avoid wasting, how we avoid misoperations, rehousing, accidental incidents, infections and a number of other things that I think we can broadly agree that we need to reduce for the benefit of patients, for the benefit of employees, but also for the benefit of patient safety. The fact that we are putting patients' safety and their treatment at the heart of the matter is precisely what must also help to develop our health services in the years to come. The government has taken that dialogue with the regions, and we look forward to taking it forward too, because it is precisely about ensuring that we do not do excelark management, but look at how we get the most quality in our healthcare system. This is also the reason why I am currently in dialogue with the five regional presidents with the wish that everyone should contribute to the joint development of our health services, that everyone should contribute to listening to the calls that have been made, and that we should take the initiatives with the eight national targets and the quality objectives further, so that we can ensure a strong health service, where it does not affect patient safety or patients' rights or the many results we have achieved over the last 10-15 years in the Danish health service.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203105659	Thank you, Minister. You can't ask questions now. Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund as rapporteur for the questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203105712	Thank you. If such a card is to sum up what I hear the Minister say at least, then it is: we are listening and we are saving. That's kind of the message. The minister says we are continuing the course that is now. There I just have to say that the Minister is in a significantly different reality from the one in which the health professional staff are located, a significantly different reality from the one in which the regional president finds himself, a significantly different reality from the one we hear from the Danish Nursing Council, from the FOA, from the Medical Association, from 3F, from HK, who all agree that we cannot continue with this course, because the 2-percent requirement is precisely a real management objective. And no, it is not about not being in favour of doing it more effectively or doing it better in the health service, and I do not think it does for health professionals that I should be very surprised. It is about what framework we provide for them. And when there is an increase in the number of unintended incidents, it is precisely because we are putting in rigid management targets. Since 2003, public hospitals have been subject to the requirement of an increase in productivity. This means, in short, that every year they have had to deliver a greater activity, more treatments than they have money for. The requirement has been included in the annual economic agreements concluded between Danske Regions and the government and voted in favour of by a majority of the Danish Parliament's Finance Committee. Up to 2006, the productivity increase requirement was 1.5%. per year, from 2007 the requirement increased to 2%. a year. In crowns and ears, a requirement for increased productivity of 2% means that hospitals must provide services every year for approx. 1.3 billion kr. more than last year without getting any money for it. A demand for an increase in productivity of 2%. are violent in itself, but in fact the hospitals have done more than changing parliamentary majority have demanded. In the period from 2003 to 2014, hospitals have delivered an actual productivity increase of as much as 30 per cent. corresponding to an average increase of 2.4%. a year. By comparison, the private market economy has achieved a productivity increase of 10%. during the same period. This corresponds to a productivity increase of 0.8%. a year. The increase in productivity in the hospital sector is therefore remarkably high, but has also had a number of costs. Investments in optimization of buildings and appliances can explain part of the development of productivity as developments in practice and research lead to more treatments being carried out more quickly and better. This reduces the subsequent care needs of many operations that can be carried out without or with only short-term hospitalization. But this also means that the patients who are hospitalized for longer periods of time today have on average a significantly higher care requirement the earlier. After all, the reality in the hospital sector is that the demand for more services is constantly increasing. The cost of medicine is increasing all the time. And as long as there are productivity gains, the only place where money can be found is in the staff account. The requirement to increase productivity therefore puts massive pressure on the care staff... doctors, nurses, SOSUs... who have experienced a sharp increase in the number of patients to be cared for during a working day. The requirement to increase productivity therefore puts the care effort under pressure and puts the individual doctor, nurse and SOSU to unpleasant choices about which patients cannot receive the necessary care. There is a clear perception among health professionals that there is a high and increasing pace of work and work load and that there are major obstacles to the professional satisfaction of the work. At the same time, the health service is being pressured by a lack of funding to carry out screening programmes. Further pressure on the economy comes from the introduction of a non-differentiated treatment guarantee of 30 days for all patients who will lead to more treatment in private hospitals. Overall, the pressure on health care is so great that it is irresponsible to continue along this path. The pressure on health care staff cannot only be read as a bad working environment, because at the same time the risk of failure and inadequate care increases because there is simply no time. This is a very real and immediate danger to patient safety. It can be read in the form of a clearly increasing trend in the number of accidental incidents. Similarly, there is a clear increase in the number of patient complaints reported, because not only do politicians demand that hospitals deliver productivity improvements, but at the same time have a majority in the Folketing of all parties except Enhedslisten and the Alternative laid margins for the regions under the Budget Act. Today, the government can punish regions economically if the regions spend more money than they have received in the economic agreement for health. Specifically, in the coming year, the government can set off an excess consumption in the block grant. So much for regional autonomy. At the same time, a ceiling has been set on how much the regions must invest. This is completely subversive to efforts to increase productivity, because the problem is that when the regions are not allowed to make the necessary investments without being penalised, they must resort to public-private partnerships, financial leasing or anything else that shifts the cost from the investment framework to the operating costs. That is exactly where health care is under pressure today. This means that, instead of having a one-off investment cost for new equipment, the regions will have to invest in equipment with operating funds. In this way, operations are eroded and staff are provided with fewer resources. There is therefore something completely wrong with the management of the modern Danish health system. The limit has simply been reached on how much pressure can be squeezed out by the staff to achieve the political objectives of more and better treatment, without any more funding. The workers' working environment is seriously reduced and, as a consequence, the risk of errors and thus reduced quality and expensive re-hospitation increases. It is a general problem in health care, whether we are talking about psychiatry, svangroomsorg or geriatri. There is a need for a fight with the productivity regime... The President Speaking Time has passed). Yes, I just need to read out our proposal for adoption. The President-in-Office of the Council, then, is coming? ) Yes. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party It must be a clear promise from the government and the Folketing that we will ensure that funds are available for the services we expect the health services to provide. We cannot continue to pass the bill on to patients and staff, because there I am here to present on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that since 2003 the productivity requirement in the economic agreements with the regions has had the consequence that the public hospital service has delivered an annual productivity increase of 2.4 per cent, which is a significantly higher productivity increase than in the private sector. The Danish Parliament notes that this has led to dramatic pressure on quality, working conditions and patient safety. The staff have experienced it as a real management objective that has had negative consequences for the professional skills of the staff and for the patients' experienced quality in the hospital system. The Danish Parliament's parties are instructing the government to open negotiations with Danish Regions and the health professional organisations to develop a new health management tool. The parties of the Folketing therefore require the government to ensure that the demand for 2% is met. increased productivity without financial compensation is not included in the 2018 Economic Agreement between the Government and Danske Regions. • V 32).
ParlaMint-DK_20170203110455	Thank you. This proposal is part of the further negotiations. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203110510	Thank you for that and thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this request today. If you ask widely among the public which topics you weigh most in your everyday life in a political context, health care always falls among the most important. We have understood this in Denmark for many decades, and that is why we also have a health service that is good, yes, in many ways even very good, also compared to other countries. Patients are very much satisfied, waiting times are historically low, and the results and quality of the analysis and treatment are getting better and better. Health professionals are at the forefront of everything. That's the way it is. We talk so frequently about welfare and about our welfare state. From a social democratic point of view, welfare arises where the citizen meets the public employee, and they do so, among other things. in hospitals and in the other parts of the health care system. As a country, we have a lot to be proud of in this area, and the many professional and incredibly dedicated public health workers in particular. However, there is another aspect. Let me just mention concepts such as high speed, a great many measuring points, high demands and expectations, frequent changes in everyday life, staff bottlenecks, constant unpredictability, savings, fear of making mistakes due to lack of time for patients, concepts that characterise the everyday life of many people in the health service when they are at work. We hear that, and we understand the seriousness of that in the Social Democratic Party. Conversely, over the years we have also just seen that change, focus, proper documentation and planning have brought great quality improvements for patients and citizens, as well as ensuring modern and appropriate new ways of doing things to the delight of all of us in society. Both are known for in the great world; Denmark is a dynamic society with high welfare. As Social Democrats, we want the best for our citizens and for our patients. And what are we doing now to do the best we can? Yes, right now we Social Democrats therefore listen very much to the patients, to the citizens, to the professional organisations, to the experts and also to those we have set up to run our hospital system, namely the five elected regions. You speak very tactfully of the fact that the framework for health care and health care management is no longer sustainable. We in the Social Democratic Party have recognised that the productivity requirements of the last many years are 2%. has pushed many to an unsustainable level in their day of work. That it is not sustainable to continue as it is now forever, we understand. Now is the time to assess how we can do it differently, correctly, dynamically and in close cooperation with the staff. That is why we have presented the idea of a team away reform, which must meet part of the rigid governance that exists in the public sector. The five regions are currently testing different new models of governance and quality. It is exciting, it is necessary, and we are waiting in the Social Democratic Party with excitement for their results. Right now we have to clap the horse and think new thoughts carefully. The professional staff, including the professional managers, shall meet with sensitivity and recognition for critical and constructive participation in the necessary change and innovation. We will not achieve our future goals of better quality and safety for patients, greater social equality in health care, better working conditions for health professionals and better prevention of disease developments, if not capacity and professionalism are priorities, balanced and managed. We have this with us in the Social Democratic Party when it comes to setting a new framework and thinking for the management of health care. On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical Left and the Conservative People's Party, I would like to read out the following proposals for adoption: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament will have a Danish health service which is characterised by high quality and patient safety and good working conditions for employees. The Danish Parliament considers that the staff's criticism of a stressful day-to-day life should be listened to and expects the regions as employers to follow up on the situation. The Danish Parliament will have a health service that is managed with a balanced focus on activity, quality and patient safety, so that more health and value is provided for patients for the total resources that are given priority to health care and which, at the same time, ensure a good working environment for employees. Parliament therefore calls on the government to ensure that quality and patient safety are included as important parameters in the economic negotiations on the regional economy. V 33).
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111133	Thank you. That proposal is also part of the further debate. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111145	Thank you. I would like to thank the Socialist rapporteur for his speech. There were, of course, many fine considerations and words in relation to this question and the specific problem in relation to the requirement of productivity. But I would like to know if the rapporteur could be a little more specific. Now I understand that the proposal for adoption states that it is the responsibility of the regions and that the regions must be aware of their employer responsibility. Is the rapporteur of the opinion that this is a problem that must be solved among the regions, in other words that it is the regions that are not fulfilling their tasks? And does the rapporteur agree with the fact that the rapporteur has already stated that the requirement for productivity must be abolished? After all, the Medical Association is very clearly in line with what the rapporteur calls a team away from reform, that we say at least in 2018 that we are taking the productivity requirement out of the economic negotiations, which we are also putting forward in the proposal for adoption from the Enhedslisten and the Alternative. I just want to ask whether the Socialist rapporteur agrees that the productivity requirement should be cancelled in 2018.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111242	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111245	Thank you for the question. We in the Social Democratic Party are fully aware of the responsibilities and responsibilities of the regions. We are more than aware that the framework within which they have to solve the tasks is set here. That is the responsibility of the Folketing. It is very important to clarify in this context, and that is why, of course, as the Social Democrat health rapporteur, I must also express my scepticism about the framework that the current government lays for the public budgets, where a projection of 0.3 per cent is made. Overall. We are dealing with the dual projection which exactly meets the demographic development of society. So I'm quite aware of that. The Social Democrats think that the regions are doing a good job. I would even allow myself to say that they are not just doing well, they are even doing very well. They also enjoy recognition for their assignment and their sense of responsibility in relation to it, but they are under pressure, which is why I also say in my rapporteur's speech that we listen to the professional organisations, we listen to the patient organisations, we listen to all five regions when they tell how their governance is today challenged and how their economy is challenged.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111403	Thank you. Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111408	Thank you. Well, I am glad that the rapporteur recognises that this is the responsibility of the Folketing. It is the Folketing that sets the framework. That is why I cannot fully understand the rapporteur, given that the message from the regions is quite clear. I can read here what all Regional Council Presidents wrote in Jyllands-Posten in December 2016: For years the regions have been aiming for an annual productivity increase of 2%. in hospitals in the form of several treatments for the same money, and we have delivered more than that. But it can't go on. ▪ That is a very clear message. Is the message from the Social Democracy to the Regional Council Presidents that they should continue to do so, also in 2018?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111447	I have heard exactly the same thing, and I have read the same thing, and I have also understood what the regions are saying, namely that the economy they now have is the tightest they have had. They have really, really tight economic frameworks at the moment. What I am saying in my rapporteur's speech is that we should applaud the horse. It is right now that all five regions are testing management and quality development models. We need to gain experience and we need to find out what to do in the future. I say explicitly in my rapporteur's speech that we cannot go on forever as we are currently doing. That's what we've done.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111523	Thank you. Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111530	Thank you. Does this mean that in 2018 it will be running as it is now, or when will it stop? That's the question. I heard the rapporteur say that it is not sustainable to continue as it is now forever, and then we have to ask how long we have to go on as we are now, when the government and the majority of the Danish Parliament are demanding that the staff should run 2% every year. Faster. This has been going on for 14 years now, with the results that employees and regional presidents are talking about. The rapporteur still has to answer whether it should be abolished in 2018. After all, it is very low-practical, yes or no, whether the government should bring the demand to the economic negotiations on the economy in 2018, or whether the government should not. We would like an answer to that. But if the rapporteur is unable to reply to that and simply wants to say that it should not continue forever, then the rapporteur must have an idea of when that eternity, which has now lasted for 14 years, will end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111633	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111636	Thank you for the question from Mr. Finn Sørensen. The rapporteur has certainly found what is essential and what is crucial in the rapporteur's speech here. It is the social democratic recognition that many people's everyday lives are marked in a way that is in a way that is unfavourable to the working environment and therefore also to patient safety. That is what the regions have found out, even before we found out about it here in the Danish Parliament, and therefore it is so crucial that we now get experience on the table from the five regions, get it coupled with what I am saying must be a constructive, critical relationship to what is the everyday life of health professionals, so that sensitivity is shown so that everyone can help each other towards a new governance. I understand that I, as rapporteur, would like an answer to be given to what Social Democracy is thinking in relation to 2018, but that is not what matters at all to me. I am not saying that the question cannot be relevant, but I cannot give the specific answer that the rapporteur wants, because I am just saying that what we are doing at the moment is that we are listening, we are taking in everything that is being worked on in the regions and all the input that the professional organisations are bringing in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111756	Thank you. There are many comments and I think it will be a long day, because there are many debates, so we must make every effort to keep speaking time. Here you go, sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111808	Thank you. I don't understand. It can be so hard to answer that question. The regions have decided, and they have announced that there is a 2% efficiency requirement. Gotta get out of here. The health personnel say the same thing, they have also heard a statement from a Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen on TV 2 not long ago, on 29 December, when Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen, I assume it's the same person, said to TV 2: We have reached a place where the staff simply cannot run stronger. We have also reached a point where many times we do not do the best for the patient, but instead do the best for the system, and that is never the case. That is what the rapporteur said. Nevertheless, the rapporteur cannot decide. Maybe it'll happen again in 2018. That is, of course, what the rapporteur says, also by signing up to the adoption that the Left has made.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111856	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111859	To the end, I would like to say that, sir. Finn Sørensen says in relation to the adoption text, I see no connection at all in it. However, what I have said in my rapporteur's speech here and have said to the media is ■ entirely quoted verbatim: as a Social Democrat we have understood how conditions are very many places. The Social Democratic Party took the initiative for an urgent hearing in the Committee on Health on the situation of maternity leave, because we had been involved, among other things. along with Enhedslisten, also to find some earmarked funds for the food area, so I cannot understand that Enhedslisten has not understood that we in the Social Democratic Party have recognised that another steering mechanism is needed here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111941	Thank you. Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203111947	I shall begin by regretting that I do not understand what it is, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen says. In other words, we are dealing with 2% of productivity requirements that run into hospitals every year, and that means that you have to stay at 2%. more efficient; you can do that with new technology • it's okay but if you can't find the money there, it means you have to run stronger. It causes stress among the employees... we've heard countless employees talk about it... it causes malfunctions... and, at all, it hits the quality. That's what I hear, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen say it does. Then the regions say that it is the framework that is simply the economic framework. We can't find the 2%. annual in efficiency improvements through governance, change and new technology, so that it hits quality. And Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen says that responsibility for it lies in here at Christiansborg. So I just want to make it clear: is social democracy for or against the 2% productivity requirements in hospitals?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112100	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112102	Social democracy is in favour of what the regions and professional organisations also know we must have: something to control. What I am saying in my rapporteur's speech very clearly is that we cannot continue as we are doing now, and that is why new ideas need new models. They shall be tested by, inter alia: in the regions. They are discussed among the professional organizations. And there we say that we are responsive to all parties because we are in a process. We should not simply call off something without assessing the consequences and knowing what to replace. And I would hope that Enhedslisten will also accept the call to be constructively critical of saying what it takes. For Enhedslisten is just here today saying that the productivity requirements of the two per cent should be called off, but there we say: we need something else to control. And there I hope we can agree that we must work towards something. I feel that the regions are trying things very constructively at the moment, in other words because we need something else to control.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112215	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112217	So that's it, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen says that you continue with the cuts, the efficiency requirement of 2%. every year, which affects patients, employees, security until you find some kind of steering mechanism and that it is completely open when it becomes. Is that the answer on the part of the Social Democrats, that is, that you cannot continue with this, but in fact you intend to continue with it anyway?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112242	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112244	It is absolutely true what Mrs Pernille Skipper started by saying, that she does not understand me. Because I think it is very clear from my rapporteur's speech here today that we have reached a place where we cannot continue and that we are therefore where we are listening and how many things are being tried out. In fact, I think it is quite a broad recognition that this is not sustainable. We had the urgent consultation which the Social Democratic Party initiated on births, and there we saw quite clearly what the situation is like out there and that there is no 2% births there. faster a year.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112329	Thank you. Sir. Bruno Jerup, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112340	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen lists a long line of trade unions and groups and people he listens to, and as far as I can hear, all those he listens to have said the same thing that Enhedslisten is actually promoting here, so that it has to stop with those productivity demands. But Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen also listened to what the Minister said? The minister said exactly the opposite. The minister said it should continue as usual no changes, nothing new under the sun. And that's kind of it, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen adds votes and mandates to enable the Minister to continue, as usual, a 2-percent efficiency also in 2018. I'd like to hear from Mr. Knox. Flemming Møller Mortensen said that this is the game he is in, that is, that he says that he listens to a lot of different good people, but that the one he has really listened to is the minister. It's just going to have to go on as usual.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112453	Thank you. Here you go, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112456	Thank you. So here I have to draw a little bit on the smile tape, because Mr. Bruno Jerup does not think that the proposal for adoption which was read out by the Social Democrats should acknowledge what the Minister has said. It's got nothing on it. I think, sir. Bruno Jerup should listen to the Socialist rapporteur's speech here today. And let me just quote: "We have recognised in the Social Democratic Party that the productivity requirements of the last many years are 2%. has pushed many to an unsustainable level in their day of work. That it is not sustainable to continue as it is now forever, we understand. I'd like to say to Mr. Knox, that there's no way to misunderstand it. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112544	But Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen also read out a proposal for adoption, which is, of course, a canonisation of the policy of the government. Well, that's kind of what's the essence of it. If that is not the case and if it is the case that it is the fine words that are put into a rapporteur's speech, which must, as it were, be the essence, and not the proposal for adoption, which Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen read out, it sounds very strange. I think it is strange if it is the case that there are like two different standards, that is, a rapporteur's speech, saying a lot of nice things, and then a proposal for adoption, which, as such, is just a canonisation of government policy that it should continue with those productivity requirements.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112622	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112625	So I have to say once again that it seems to me to be a totally misunderstood interpretation of this proposal for adoption, and I would ask you to do so. Bruno Jerup about reading it again when it comes out in writing to everyone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112634	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112637	Thank you. I would like to start by commending the rapporteur's speech. I think that was a very good rapporteur's speech and I agree with everything the Social Democrat rapporteur said. That is why I am also surprised that the rapporteur does not respond to the fact that both employee associations and trade unions have sent a cry for help to Christiansborg, a cry for help that is about this productivity requirement, and it is about focusing on quality rather than efficiency and productivity. Why, then, will the rapporteur not go along with the proposal for adoption proposed by the Enhedslisten and the Alternative?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112730	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112734	The proposal for adoption that I read out has broad support here in the Folketing. If there is anything essential to our health care, it is that we should avoid zigzag course. That is that the approximately 140 billion. kr. we spend on health care has one long aim, and that is the quality of patients, it is the safety of patients and, as a social democrat, I can say that nobody should be left out of getting the best quality. Free and equal access to health care is one of the most important things for social democracy. That is one of the most important things for the whole population, and that is why we need to pull together broadly, and that is why we need to have a new model of governance, new quality models, new target points where health professionals and patient organisations are involved, as they understand, which stimulate their everyday lives, which provide well-being and not distrust in their everyday lives. That's why we took, among other things. the initiative based on the poor working environment in many of the country's birthplaces. Because you're just too busy out there. That is why we were annoyed that the then Left Government took away one third of the money we had earmarked for the feeding grounds. Take this as a signal that we want something else, and I think that a great many are aware that we want to do so from the Socialist side.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112857	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112859	That is quite fantastic to hear, and I could not have said it myself as well as the rapporteur has just done. That's quite, quite fantastic said. But the presidents of the regions have also come out to say that something must now be done in relation to this productivity requirement, and many of the presidents of the regions are social democrats, and that is why, as I said before, I do not understand that the Social Democrats and the rapporteur will not go along with it and say that it is simply not working with this productivity requirement. As we also heard from the hearing at Christiansborg in relation to maternity and maternity, it is simply not working.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112937	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203112939	Mrs Pernille Schnoor has to understand that, and I certainly hope that my rapporteur's speech will say that we are exactly now in a place where there is a recognition that the 2-percent productivity requirements cannot go on as they are now. Something else needs to be done, and we are exactly in the process of considering it. The regions are trying things out, so everything is in a process at the moment, so that we have to get out on the other side with something new, something modern, something dynamic, something staffed, something quality-focusing rather than targeting. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113020	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Liselott Blix, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113028	I am very pleased that Enhedslisten has raised this debate. Thank you very much. This was exactly something we were discussing between Christmas and New Year, when we heard from doctors and organizations that this productivity requirement of 2%. had some side effects. We just heard about operations that might not have to be done, but many times were done, because this was what was required to be made more efficient. That was also the reason why I went out and said what I still think: I want us to do away with the 2-percent requirement. That is also why I have asked whether the Minister for Health will come to a meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly, to which the Minister has agreed. I hope, of course, that it will be this minister, but it can also be the replacement. It's never known. We've got a little shift in the health minister's office. But no matter what, it's at least the Ministry that we need to have a conversation with. We also need to find out what it is that we control, what it is that we pay. For many years we have been talking about DRG tariffs and how we use DRG tariffs. It is also a reason why when a hospital has to deliver, it looks more like a sausage factory. So not all departments are the same. There are departments that have complex patients. We know about the medically elderly patients with several different chronic diseases. They can't be treated in the same way as if one of us had to do a knee surgery if it was necessary. That's where we can be discharged on the same day. However, it should not be made up of how many knee surgery we can achieve in one day, because it is important that we give proper treatment to the patient entering the hospital. Eventually, this means at least this is how we see the demand that you have to perform more, that it goes faster, that you have to get more through. We know that the sooner you are, the more sloppy it gets. We've got mistakes. Now, if we did it the right way and thought quality rather than quantity, it might be that we could actually still comply with a productivity requirement because we actually did it right the first time. We have an incredibly large number of rehabs, infections, etc. Maybe it's because it's all gonna have to be pushed through, and that's why we're saying, "Now make up with this 2-percent productivity requirement." It's been in existence for 14 years. In fact, Enhedslisten has supported it while they supported a red government. Yes, you have, because you were behind that government and I think that is very funny. When you look at what that means, we can look at health care that it has changed a lot with new technologies and new treatments in many areas. In the 1980s the average lay time was approx. 10 days. In 2000, it was 5.8 and it is expected that when we reach 2020, we will have days at 2.7. Actually, some people assume that if we reach 2035, it's zero. I just don't quite believe that's how it's gonna go. For the Danish People's Party, this means that we must ensure that we have the security needed in the health care system. We can see it in maternity wards. We could see it at the hearing. In fact, we have a lot of people who have given birth at home or outpatients who were safe about it, and they only needed help for a few hours. I have a daughter of my own who gave birth last year. She went home within 24 hours... she was first-born and 21 years old... while I myself, 25 years ago, lay these 5-6 days... as you were then. But now that we can see that a woman who is born is there at least less than 24 hours, we can hardly say that she should be there less time. But we must also ensure that if you do not feel comfortable going home, if you want to start breast-feeding before you get home, then you must also be able to lay there the days that are needed. Because if you're sent home too quickly, we know there's going to be a re-hospital. These are the things we need to do away with. We must ensure that those who go home, when they have been there for less time, are safe about it. Now I see I've finished counting my time. But thank you for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113551	There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113558	Thank you. First of all, I need to correct the rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. It is not the case that we per. automatic votes for the economic agreements with the regions, for which the Danish People's Party has had a tradition. This is not something we are doing, and it is therefore not right that the Enhedslisten has each time voted in favour of these economic agreements, even under the previous government. For, of course, we do not accept a productivity requirement, whether it is a social democratic government or a left-wing government. The rapporteur has many fine considerations in relation to this, but basically this is about being able to give professionalism back to the employees, that basically it becomes a professional assessment, what treatment patients should have, rather than being financially managed through an excelark. The consequence of the productivity requirement, whether you talk value-based management or anything else you can think of from fine words, is that as long as the demand is there, there must be 1.3 billion. kr. Every year in health care, and this is even increasing. What I would like to ask the rapporteur is whether the rapporteur does not agree that, if we are to be able to give professionalism back to employees, it is absolutely necessary to break down the requirement of productivity, and therefore does the rapporteur not also agree that the requirement for productivity requirements in the 2018 economic negotiations should be removed from the negotiations, so that we should agree with the regions that they cannot deliver with the continuing demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113721	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113725	I can be very brief. I very much agree with Enhedslisten that we need to do away with the productivity requirement. We just have to agree that we are not demanding anything from a government. We say, let's talk about it and try to reach an agreement on these things. What I also said in the article from which I am quoted is that I will then talk to the government and the minister first to see if we can reach agreement on how to secure some governance tools, because I would not want to put the government in the minority. That is what I am saying and that is why I fully agree. I hope we can agree that this demand for 2%. Going out, because that's the 2% that professionals, regions and others say is the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113808	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113811	Now it is usually the case in a debate, and I think it is also the case here that those who will be most saddened that the government came into the minority would probably be the government and not the Danish People's Party. That is why it is also a question of saying in a debate: well, we have a strong external demand. We need to raise the demand, we need to make it clear to the government that there is no majority for the productivity requirement. We will have to back up Danske Regions and the health professional organisations, otherwise they will stand out shouting and can only see that we are listening and that we get to a negotiating table. We need to put concrete action behind the demands made by organisations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113849	Thank you. Then we'll get an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113853	So far, we don't know what the government has a majority for. The government knows that we, as a support party, have said that we will do away with this. Therefore, there may be other parties supporting a government, just as there was when the Enhedslisten did not support a red government, because others supported maintaining the productivity requirement. So we're actually in the same boat here. You were a support party for a red government, we're a blue one, you didn't make ultimate demands, and neither do we.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113918	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203113924	Thank you. I am pleased that we agree that the productivity requirement needs to be brought to an end, and that is quite frankly the point. I think it is nice and a clear statement, but we will then also draw up what the difference is between Dansk Folkeparti and Enhedslisten. For the Danish People's Party will not demand the government for this. One expresses one's opinion, and then one hopes that the government will listen to it. But it is the case that if today's parliament does not make it absolutely clear that the government should not take that requirement into account in the economic negotiations, then the government has free hands to do so and, following the statements by the Minister for Health here, I believe that it does so. If the government succeeds in pushing the regions to sign it, then there will be an act in the Ministry of Finance, which the Danish People's Party will then vote for, will there not? So if you really mean something by what you say, you have to support the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption, which clearly states that the demand must go away and not support what the government is making.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114026	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114029	I think it's very nice that Mr. Finn Sørensen will tell me how the Danish People's Party will act. I'm gonna turn it around. I would like to see where it was that Enhedslisten made ultimate demands on the Red Government to remove the 2-percent productivity requirement. I'd like to see that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114045	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114051	Now I think the rapporteur should address the situation we have here today, and it will be easy to find plenty of examples of Enhedslisten criticising and rejecting it, and that we have voted against economic agreements, among others. on that grounds. So it won't be hard. But that's the difference. For the Danish People's Party would like to be positive and make a very positive statement, but when it comes to action, it is a negotiating situation, and the Danish People's Party will help to weaken the regions in the negotiating situation if the Danish People's Party does not support Enhedslisten's clear proposals and demands that this demand come out of the negotiations. Otherwise, of course, the government is using it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114125	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114128	In your proposal, you are imposing something on the government. We're not imposing anything on the government, we're talking. We are in dialogue and we are negotiating exactly as Enhedslisten did when they supported a red government. Otherwise, you could have disfellowshipped the Red Government, and then it should have gone off. And you didn't.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114145	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114152	I can say very, very clearly that if we had been able to put the previous government in a minority in relation to the requirement of productivity in hospitals, we would have done so, completely, totally kissing. What I can't understand about this situation is that the Danish People's Party keeps pushing other people in front of it, just like not taking responsibility for its own voices. The Danish People's Party says that they do not like the productivity requirement and it is true that it hits patients and that it hits employees, and it is absolutely terrible but they will not say that they vote against, they will not put their votes behind for fear of... For what? Because if you accept the Danish People's Party's views on the productivity requirement, and if the Danish People's Party votes for it, will the Social Democrats dare to do the same? Well, it may be that my mathematics is all wrong, but that's more than 90. If everyone in this room is telling the truth, isn't there a majority for a continued productivity requirement in the country's hospitals that affects patients and employees and that consistently puts increased pressure on them, then couldn't one just act according to words?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114254	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114300	It was an incredibly dramatic presentation by Mrs Pernille Skipper. I'm gonna take it really easy. I have just said what I meant and have always said, and it is not about pushing some people forward. More money has come to the health service in the time we have supported a government than when Enhedslisten supported a government and it is black and white; the Finance Minister's economists calculated that it stood still. So it's not about us pushing a whole lot of people forward. It is simply a matter of taking responsibility for what you yourself have supported in your time. So it is not in this way that we are saying in this Chamber that we are now supporting the Enhedslisten because we are imposing something on a government. We're working with the government. That does not mean that we say that we support everything about productivity requirements. We are therefore negotiating in a different way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114349	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114352	Well, I'm sorry, it just doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. The Enhedslisten is voting against the productivity requirement and we are opposed to the economic agreements, and we also did so under the government that was here before. But we could not be allowed to bring them into the minority because the Danish People's Party and the Left insisted that it was okay that the productivity requirement continued. What we just have to conclude is that the Danish People's Party continues to say that they are against it and continue to vote in favour of it. The only exciting and consistent thing about what comes out of the positions of the Danish People's Party is that you say one thing and do another, and you do so whether it is a blue or a red government sitting. So congratulations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114430	Then it is the rapporteur. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114433	No, it is now the case that the Danish People's Party does not dance according to the pipe of Enhedslisten. We have called the Minister on the Committee on Health and the Elderly where we can talk about it, and then we should not, before we have a talk with the Minister, stand here and say that we are doing what Enhedslisten is doing, because we are such good friends. That's ridiculous. We are going after our own policy, and that is that we are having a dialogue and we are having a talk. And we also know that the Minister for Health has said that you have gone in and that you are already looking at these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114502	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114507	I believe that Mrs Liselott Blixt confuses some things when she talks about ultimate demands. Well, this isn't really about whether some parties have to make ultimate demands. This is about a majority making a proposal for the adoption of what should be the country's policy and thus the government's what the government should work for. This is a completely different situation. I also do not understand why Mrs Liselott Blixt does not bite to fuck and say that there is an opportunity here that you can actually put your policy through. If it is true, as the rapporteur said, that it is the policy of the Danish People's Party to take away these productivity requirements, why do you not bite and actually go in and vote for the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption? It has nothing to do with being the ultimate; it has something to do with the fact that there is a majority going through.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114617	Well, my knowledge tells me that when you impose something, it becomes an ultimate requirement. And, as we say, we want to have that dialogue with the Minister for Health, and I also think we are well on the way. I am also sure that we will reach a place where we do not see the productivity requirements of the agreements that lie, in the same way as we see it today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114645	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114648	However, I think that the rapporteur does not talk about it. The specific question is why we are not actually doing what is possible in this context, and then we say: okay, now we are going for the policy that we support in words, and we are doing it in practice as well. I also hope that the rapporteur heard what the Minister said earlier. The Minister's clear message was: we will continue as usual. In other words, what the rapporteur is up against is not a possible debate in which to negotiate something else; it is just an ultimatum on their part.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114725	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114729	I think I have made it very clear that I am following my political convictions and what I have said is that I call the minister in committee, where we are just having a talk about this and where we will, of course, put pressure on the Minister. The Minister has not said that we will continue as usual. On the contrary, I know that the Minister has said that we are already looking at it and that we are kicking in an open door. And that gives me the hope that we can just get some agreements in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114754	We thank Mrs Liselott Blixt and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Jane Heitmann. And I would just like to take this opportunity to say that now I have been very patient to stand up, but could one not take a look at time? Because these are quite significant overruns we have and we have a long day. So we help each other with that, so we get a good Friday out of it too. Here you go, Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203114815	Thank you, President. Quality, patient safety and the working environment are crucial to us in the Left, and these are important elements of a good Danish health service, which we both in the Left are immensely proud of and at the same time continue to want to strengthen and develop. Hundreds of thousands of Danish patients use or visit the Danish healthcare system every year. For some, the journey is long, for others it is short. Whatever leadership, however serious it may be, everyone has the right and the right to high-quality treatment, and in the Left we are on the side of patients. However, the health workers, who make a difference to Danish patients and their relatives every day, are also entitled to a job where there are good opportunities for you to lift yourself, that you can develop your potential, and you can work at the highest level of competence. To do your best, it makes great demands on focused management. However, it also makes demands on all other actors who move within or on the periphery of our healthcare system. In recent years there has been a great focus on the Danish maternity departments and on the productivity requirements that are under discussion in the Parliamentary Chamber today. Recently, I saw a TV feature in which it was almost produced, as if the birthers were about to give birth to 2%. faster, so that the departments could meet the productivity requirements. It is only to smile, because I wonder which department is out there in reality, where life is lived, and where our talented health workers every day help new families to the world, which could seriously make such a demand. You can't and you don't have to give birth to 2%. Faster. A birth takes the time it takes, and yes, there are many myths. Having said that, however, I have a clear expectation that the criticisms that have been made will be taken seriously and that we in the regions will listen to the calls of the staff. And let me say straight away that a productivity requirement of 2%. Well, it's not a new invention. If I do not remember quite wrong, we have actually had productivity requirements in hospitals since sometime in the 1990s, in other words under changing governments. When over the years we have focused on productivity, yes, it is basically a common desire to develop our common healthcare system. That is also the case today, although we are now moving to a great extent towards new quality targets, away from time-consuming accreditation, and instead we are setting our sights on value-based governance. The demand for productivity is often presented as a cut-back instrument, and this is seen from my chair unmanageable, because neither new hospital buildings, better coordination of purchases or new home monitoring technologies, I think, can be described as cuts, but on the contrary, as examples of new opportunities being taken into account in the regions and developing them to the benefit of both patients and staff. The requirement of productivity has helped to ensure a development within the Danish health service, where new technology and new knowledge and new medicine have been put into use and new workflows have facilitated the work of the staff. A few weeks ago, I visited along with good fellow members of parliament from the Social Democratic Party and DF CoLab in Odense during Southern Denmark's Health Innovation. CoLab is a fantastic example of how collaboration on innovation and development helps to push our healthcare and secure value for both patient and treatment. Here municipalities, regions, hospitals and companies meet to develop better solutions. There will be work on welfare technologies that make work easier for staff in hospitals and technologies that respond to patients' needs and make meeting with health care easier. Initiatives such as these are particularly good examples of the regions' ability to think about new workflows, new technologies and new ways of doing things into everyday workflows. And then it is worth remembering that the resources that the regions draw from thinking in new processes and new technologies remain in the regions. The regions have been sharp because they have managed to deliver an increase in productivity of an average of more than 2%. For the past many years. We need to make the best of the money that we invest in the Danish healthcare system for both patients and staff. That is why it is very much about the fact that, in the regions and in the management context, the focus is on where it makes sense to realise the potential so that we do not have to hear silly stories about women who are going to give birth 2%. Faster. That doesn't make any sense. But it makes sense that we give priority to the Danish health service. In 2016 alone, we lifted the Danish health service by 2.4 billion. kr., and that's a significant boost that benefits everyone. We manage money paid by the Danes, sir. and Mrs Hansen and all the others, and we have a duty to work to ensure that everyone gets the most out of the money, so that in the future we also have a healthcare system in which quality, patient safety and the working environment go hand in hand. On the left side, we can support the proposal for adoption which the Social Democrat rapporteur read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115320	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115325	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have to say to the rapporteur that the rapporteur's speech in my ears will sound arrogant. I simply cannot understand why it is proposed that, in order to develop new technologies, innovation, new forms of health care, a framework should be laid down where there is a requirement for productivity. Does the rapporteur not have the confidence that if staff were to be able to make decisions on the basis of professional criteria, there would still be an increase in productivity in health care? Is the rapporteur of the opinion that the only reason why these things happen is that we bring an economic whip from the Folketing and say that 2% must be delivered? Every year? And in the same breath, I would like to ask the rapporteur: if this is how we can create value-based management and all those great things we are talking about now, we are so willing to say, let us try to give it to the regions, let us cancel the productivity requirement and say that now we are doing value-based management, and then let us try to see if it does not actually get better, and let us try to see if it does not both improve patient safety and improve the working environment and better management of health care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115443	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115445	Let me start by saying to Enhedslisten's health rapporteur: I am sincerely sorry if the rapporteur has seen my speech as arrogant. As I said in my speech, the requirement for productivity is, in fact, that is at least what I was trying to express in a way to ensure that we always focus on whether we can do things better, in a smarter way, in a way that releases potentials in every corner of the healthcare system. Then the rapporteur asks for value-based management, and that is where I would say that there are already attempts at value-based management, and I simply think that it is so exciting that we have addressed it and that we are now working on whether we can do things differently and in a better way out there in the real world where staff and patients are going. However, I also have to hurry up and say that the President has risen up that there is not yet a finished model, I know, anywhere in the world where one has value-based management so rolled out completely.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115554	Then it's mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115557	After all, we should not have more knee operations simply because the President will have to stand up so often, so I will now try to stay within the speaking time. Where I think the rapporteur will be arrogant is when I say that these efficiency improvements alone come because the government provides a tight framework that will put the regions under pressure on the 2%. every year. Does the rapporteur not believe that staff or regions without the government's demand for 2%? efficiency improvements would be able to improve health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115629	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115632	When a framework is tight I think is a very broad concept and I think you will get many different answers to what a tight framework is, in terms of who you ask. But if you look at the productivity requirement in isolation, you have to say that over the last few years the regions have actually delivered more. As I also said in my speech, they have been super sharp in the regions, they have actually managed to deliver more than 2%, and that is at least an indication that there has been an unsolvable potential, and that, fortunately, we have ensured in cooperation that now we have a focus on where we can make things smarter, better, easier, faster, so that we can have as much health as possible for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115715	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115717	Thank you, but if you ask the staff and their organisations; if you ask the regions, the five regions, the answer is crystal clear: enough is enough, and the demand for 2% annual efficiency on top of all the other annual efficiency improvements must go away. Does the rapporteur agree with the organisations and staff involved?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115744	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115745	I fully agree that we need to look at how we manage the Danish healthcare system. As I mentioned earlier, experiments are currently taking place in the regions. We have the eight national objectives as one way of managing health care in another and, hopefully, better way. We have abolished the Danish quality model. We look at new ways, opportunities to accredit. I fully agree that this is important, and that is also what the Minister for Health said, in other words, that there are many ways to look at what it is like today to manage our health services and whether there are things we can do in a better way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115828	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115830	What the organisations, the employees and the regions would like to know, and which the Enhedslisten also very much wants to know, is: should the 2-percent efficiency requirement remain in place during the period when some experiments are being carried out? When I read the proposal for adoption by the rapporteur, I can only get the impression that the two-percent requirement must continue because what you write is that you want a health service that provides more health and value for patients for the total resources that are given priority to health care. What's new? It is, after all, as it has always been in the 14 years that that requirement has been in force, namely exactly the same mechanism. Have I read it correctly: there is a requirement in that sentence that 2-percent efficiency should continue?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115922	We'll get that answer in 30 seconds. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203115924	I think it would simply have dressed Enhedslisten's rapporteur if he had taken the trouble to have read the whole joint motion for a resolution in which we, including the Left, have written: the Danish Parliament considers that the staff's criticism of a pressured weekday should be listened to. And that is exactly what I have been saying here on the platform, namely that we must listen. As the Minister for Health said in her speech, she is indeed in dialogue with the regions, and I also heard the Minister for Health give examples of a number of ways in which dialogue could be strengthened. So I think that Enhedslisten should read the whole proposal for adoption and not just take things out of context.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120005	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120007	I also have a small question for the rapporteur. I do not want to use a word as arrogant at all, but I thought it might be understood as a little bit as if we, as politicians, are better informed when these two-percent demands are going to get them out in the sector, you might say, to make things smarter and better etc., that is, when we as politicians are putting in a 2-percent demand, because then you can do things smarter and better. Is the rapporteur interested in a new model based on more trust and in which, as politicians, we may be a little more humble in terms of professionalism in health care than the model we now have, where we are presenting health care with such a little knife on the throat-like philosophy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120102	I'm kind of interested in putting the patient at the centre. If you look back at 2001 when the VK government took over power after the former Red Government, you will see that the waiting lists were too long. The productivity requirement here is 2%. rapid investigation and rapid treatment. And fortunately, we have seen that it has been moved. I am delighted, and that is my focus: the patient in the centre.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120132	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120133	That is a very good thing, but I would like to know whether the rapporteur is also interested in putting the skills of the employees and management at the centre. For right now, we have performance registration and all sorts of other mechanisms that may not put professionalism at the centre. But is the rapporteur also interested in a system that puts the professionalism of employees and managers at the heart of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120156	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120157	I also think that I mentioned my rapporteur's speech that, of course, we should have a focus on staff. And I think I could just quote myself here, because I said that health workers are also entitled to a job where there are good opportunities for raising, developing their potential and working at the highest level of competence. And I have the expectation that in the regions you will have exactly the management focus, which means that both patients and staff are thriving in a busy everyday life, as we are told there are.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120227	Then we thank Mrs Jane Heitmann and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance. Okay, it came in so late that I didn't have time to see it or record it up here. But we repeat the séance with another brief comment, so now it is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120248	I'm sorry, but it was a while ago I hadn't felt myself. I'm just a little interested in understanding this test of the new methods that the Left Minister is also talking about. As I understand it, the Left has now realised that it is not so good, that there are problems at least. So far, so good. You listen to some employees who say that they simply cannot work under these conditions, stress, errors, insecurity for patients. So far, so good. Now let's try out some new things and see how we can do it differently. That is also fine. It is, in fact, a step forward from my perspective. What I cannot understand is whether the productivity requirement is 2%. I'm gonna have to keep going while you're trying. In other words, there should be no dispensation from the constant running requirement of 2%. faster, faster and faster, while finding some better ways to do it? Or does the Left really think that if you continue with that pressure year after year, there is simply room for you to just become a crea and come up with good new things?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120407	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120408	I do not recognise the pressure or reduction terminology in which Enhedslisten speaks. I simply do not recognise that starting point. If you look at the period from 2007 to 2017, you will see that health care has been added an extra 13 billion. kr. There have never been so many doctors who have never been as many nurses in the Danish healthcare system as there are today. I think you should acknowledge that promise. Does this mean that there are no challenges or problems? No, it doesn't. I also attended the hearing on the maternity wards, and there are challenges. And I have a clear expectation that the regions also have a focus on the challenges, just as we do on Christiansborg's side, and when the Minister of Health says that she is in dialogue with the regions to look at new roads, it is a clear recognition that yes, we have lifted health care significantly, but we also have challenges, and we must have them solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120513	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120517	These are the words, i.e. dialog and focus and things like that, and you can keep doing that for a hundred years. It is true that more money has been made available for health care, and it is true that more staff have arrived, but there have also been more elderly people, more diseases being treated for, more complicated diseases. So the pressure is there. I think it is rather a pity that the rapporteur of the Left does not want to recognise the terminology. And it's not just a terminology, but it's the reality that we're told by the people who today have to go and work under the conditions where you're asked to run 2%. Faster. That is the reality of the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120556	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120558	What I am just saying quietly is that I do not recognise this reduction discourse and the talk of health care into a big black hole that I think Enhedslisten is expressing today. I simply do not recognise that starting point, because we have lifted the Danish health service. In 2016 alone, we lifted the Danish health service by 2.4 billion. kr., and this is significantly more than the previous government, which Enhedslisten himself supported. And I do not understand why there has not been a focus at that time on giving health care an increased boost if you think that is what it takes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120633	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. This time, no one else has any comments. And we welcome Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203120643	Thank you. Happily, we see a very positive development in the Danish health service and with good results, but unfortunately we still experience time and again that the staff at the hospitals feel stressed. They work really hard, and they go home frustrated with a sense of not having had the opportunity to do it well enough for their patients; it is unsatisfactory. It is seen that employees are sad and have greater sickness absence, that patients do not get the quality of treatment they need and that resources are being used without sufficient benefit to patients. That's not good enough, and we're gonna change that. We must have better quality for patients and better working conditions for employees. However, I do not think that it is the productivity requirement that is the problem. I think that is rather the way in which the settlement system is built up. Today it is calculated by quantity rather than by quality. This means that the number of activities is calculated. That, for example, gives rise to a number of problems. incentives to carry out as many operations as possible, and that is a good thing as long as you take from the waiting list of patients waiting for necessary operations. Unfortunately, however, we have also seen examples of operations being carried out, for example. knee, where the patient had been as well or better served with a rehabilitation course, which is even cheaper. We must therefore combine things and look at the settlement system from a value-based angle: we must reward staff, departments and hospitals according to what adds value to patients. I also see that there is already a lot of focus on a more value-based settlement system, not least in the regions. So I am very confident that there is a system that can give more value to the money. At the same time, we must work seriously to separate necessary documentation from unnecessary documentation, in order to eliminate the superfluous. According to the Danish Nursing Council, it would mean so much time released to patients that it would correspond to about 3,000 full-time positions. And if the same applies to both doctors and other staff groups in the Danish hospitals, there is a lot to pick up here. It is time that can be spent on patients who can make the working day more meaningful and less stressful for staff and who can contribute to better quality of treatment. New technology, new treatment methods and smarter workflows can also contribute to efficiency. We saw, for example, how a single thing like daily board meetings made a huge difference and drastically reduced the number of patients on the hallways. We can also get more money by increasing cooperation between public and private actors. Analyses show that private individuals can provide many of the services cheaper than the public authorities can, and citizens have great confidence that the private sector is doing at least as well. Patient involvement is also a very important parameter which will provide better service for the money. And then we have to measure it on the outcome. We need to measure what we get out of it, what gives value to patients, and we need to give staff the freedom to decide for themselves how they will achieve some overall goals, rather than process management. We're already well on our way. We have abolished the accreditation model and adopted eight national targets which are precisely value-based. The aim is to gain more health and value for patients for total resources and to have a good working environment for employees. And together, we need to figure out how to get there. The parties of the Folketing, together with the regions and the staff, will have to find out how to reach a health service that gives the most value to patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121112	Thank you. There is one brief comment, and it is from Mr. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121115	Thank you. I would just like to ask the Liberal rapporteur something. I thought it was a basic feature of liberal thinking that people should be listened to, that they should be given freedom and something like that, and therefore I am a little surprised that when both the Danish Regions, all the health professional organisations and especially the health workers say that what is the problem is the 2-percent requirement, the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance says that they are completely wrong, because the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance has seen through that it is the DRG system that is wrong with it. That is certainly true, but I am just wondering whether it would not be more in line with liberal thinking to say: now we are actually listening to what people are saying, rather than rising above them and saying that what they are saying is wrong and that it is quite another problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121154	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121155	We listen very much to what is being said in the staff and the people who are dealing with this. Therefore, we have also held meetings with the Danish Nursing Council, and we have received many examples from them, from everyday life, from reality, on how to debureaucratise and make things easier, and how to provide more time to ensure a less stressful everyday life for employees and a better quality for patients. So we listen a lot to what's being said out there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121228	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121230	I fully agree that it is easy to debureaucratise and anything else. We also have meetings with the Danish Nursing Council and other professional organisations, but I have just not heard any of them say that it is a good idea to continue to maintain the efficiency requirement of 2%. If you have to go out and find new solutions, if you are to debureaucratize, the first step is to get rid of it, and then we can try to look at the second afterwards, because the reason why there is a lot of bureaucracy is precisely this productivity requirement, which means that you have to document all the services and must constantly be able to show that more and more is being produced. So if we are to listen to them, we must start by abolishing the productivity requirement and then we can look at the other things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121308	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121309	After all, the requirement of productivity is part of the settlement system. This is the way it is implemented, which is a problem, that is to say, spending a lot of time looking at what action provides the best economy for a department, instead of looking at what is best for the patient. So it's the entire settlement system that needs to be changed. Finally, it can be said that if they are 2%. is such a big problem, which they may be, in that we have to find another way of doing it, it is strange that we have chosen to make it more efficient by 2.4 per cent in addition to the agreement. So if they're 2%. It is a problem, of course, that it is of its own free will to increase efficiency by 2.4 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121352	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121353	I would like to hear something, because I often hear the Liberal Alliance say that it is very important that we find the money before we use it. For example, we will be able to make it to the next stage. I suggest, what do I know we would like to spend some money on some better schools or universities, something, so the Liberal Alliance says: yes, yes, but where should the money come from? And it's like it doesn't really count in the hospitals, is it? There you say: We would really like to find 2% savings every year through a productivity requirement. But no one at the Liberal Alliance answers where the money should come from.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121439	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121440	In fact, the Liberal Alliance is not talking about savings; we are talking about efficiency. These are two very different things: efficiency is when you get more for the same money, and that is not the same as savings. What we are talking about is efficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121459	Mrs. Pernille Skip.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121500	I would simply recommend that the Liberal Alliance go out and say to employed nurses and midwives and doctors and patients: don't worry, it's not savings, it's just efficiency.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121514	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121515	We've already said that. We have talked a lot with both nurses and other staff groups, so we are completely in line with that. What is precisely our policy is to listen to those who understand it, those who work with it on a daily basis, and to hear how we can use their competences, their time much better, instead of wasting it on indifferent intersections in a schedule or on a PC. We have to ask them where the unnecessary time is, so that we concentrate on the places where it provides added value.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121555	Thank you to Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup. There are no more brief comments. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203121606	First of all, I would like to make it clear that the alternative does not have a dogmatic attitude to the size of the public sector. As a starting point, it is not crucial for us whether the public sector is growing so much. What is crucial for us is that the public sector has the resources needed to ensure core welfare in a way that is good and meaningful for both citizens and employees, and that resources are used in the best way. To spell it out, there are some places where the alternative would like the public sector to fill more and some places where we would like to see it filled less. So we do not think the solution is as simple as sending more money. In relation to the hospital area, the alternative shares the concern that this is an area where too much has been saved and streamlined. The reality is that health care, especially the country's hospitals, has long been under severe pressure. They have continued to do so, which is why we believe that it is not possible to introduce new productivity requirements without costing elsewhere. It is a very serious problem that we are discussing here today. In Information, I was recently able to read about a heart patient who, at Odense University Hospital in the autumn, was acutely operated in a four-bed room, while other patients and their relatives were present. So these are some very serious conditions that we have in many places in our health services. The problem is, of course, that politicians have also forced staff in hospitals to run faster and faster without necessarily spending more money. And this, of course, has implications for quality, for treatment and also for the working conditions of employees. We see, among other things, that patients are sent home because hospitals are hit by overcrowding. We see that the sick and the weak do not get the best possible advice because there is no time for it. We see employees who go down with stress because they can't understand the workload or because their working day doesn't make sense to them. We see how in-patients do not get changed clothes or bed covers or that they are added to sleep with medication because the staff have to prioritize differently. We also see employees who spend time on e.g. performance records which do not contribute to quality or otherwise contribute to their finding meaning during their working day and during their working life. We need to do something about this, because neither we nor the citizens nor the employees can benefit from it. If we are to solve the problems and give employees better working conditions, we need both to improve the financial framework and to turn down the control tyranny. This is among other things. That is why, in the alternative, we are critical of the current productivity requirement, as the productivity requirement is an unhealthy and outdated principle of governance that promotes basically and not medically qualified pressure in hospitals, where it is a matter of getting patients through the system faster to strengthen the economy without looking at the effects of efforts. Because while the consequence of the requirement of productivity may be difficult to see when looking at the economy of hospitals through a spreadsheet in the Ministry of Finance, it is not difficult to see it if you look at how the twisted pace of hospital passages has affected daily life in hospitals. For example: a study, I think it may have been mentioned today, from the Danish Nursing Council from 2015, showed that 21 per cent. the nurses consider that it is always necessary to work very quickly, which was twice as many as in a similar study in 2012. To mention another figure, there is also evidence that the number of errors, at least the risk of errors, is increasing in line with the productivity requirement. For example: The number of patient complaints administered has increased from approx. 4,000 in 2009 to 7,000 in 2014. In this way, there are indications that it is not only the employees, the employees, who feel the consequences of the pressure on productivity, but also the patients who feel on their own bodies that pressure in hospitals has consequences. The alternative conclusion is that the pressure on the health system has reached the limit of what we, as responsible politicians, can allow. We believe that productivity must end now and here if we are to be able to face ourselves, the employees and the patients. We therefore respect the fact that the government would like to have as much health as possible for taxpayers' money, but we insist that this should not be at the expense of quality and the well-being of employees. The most important thing is that we ensure good and dignified treatment, and that is why we must take it seriously when researchers, doctors and nurses and other professional groups report that the consequence of continuing as it is now will be that the quality of public services, patient safety and working conditions will deteriorate further. I'll be done in a second. Then we must remember that it must cost something to have good, happy and satisfied citizens and employees. In the end, it pays off, just as we must remember that the public sector and hospitals are therefore there for the benefit of the citizens and not the economy. And last but not least, I am pleased that virtually everyone here today agrees that the productivity requirement needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122153	Thank you! One second is one second. There are no brief comments. We thank the rapporteur and move on to the next rapporteur. This is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122205	Thank you. And thank you to Enhedslisten for raising this debate which, of course, allows the government to assess the consequences of the productivity requirement. I think there is good reason to have it, and we have already heard the government present many advantages of the productivity requirement in particular. Perhaps we could also drill a little more in some of the drawbacks that are. Because I think it is becoming increasingly clear that there are places in health care where the productivity requirement, as it is today, does not necessarily make good sense. The most obvious example is what we have heard a great deal about now, namely in the field of food, where people have said a little timidly that it is not possible to ask women who are born to do so just as much as 2%. Faster. I know that the rapporteur of the Left made a little fun of it just now, but there is, of course, a regime in what we need to take seriously. You can also imagine other areas where telling people to increase productivity by 2%. A year doesn't make sense, simply because there are no more patients and so you can't just do more of it and where it's just a saving. At the same time, I also feel that when you make economic governance models, they work very well for a number of years to get people to adapt, but at some point those models have been there for so long that it starts to become inappropriate. There's nothing strange about that. It is very normal that there comes a time when it makes good sense to adjust them so that we actually get what is the purpose of them. I think it is very relevant to ask the question now, namely whether that is where we are, with the requirement of productivity. Nevertheless, I would like to say that for me it is a bit off track for both the Enhedslisten and the Alternative today, when it is simply proposed that we abolish the productivity requirement. Because unless you do not care that we get as much health as possible for the money, or that we want to treat more people and treat them better, you owe an answer as to how we should manage it. If you do not have that answer, it is, in my view, irresponsible to make a proposal today that productivity requirements should be abolished. I think that the Enhedslisten and the Alternative are dishonest to people when, in today's debate, it sounds as if there are unbridled sums of money if only the productivity requirement was removed. That is why it is connected to me that we need to have an open-minded discussion about what it takes of us as Parliament in order to have the welfare society we want. For me, there is the greatest concern right now that we have a government which envisages that there should only be a 0.3% growth in public spending in Denmark, when we know that if only we want to do it as well as we do today, while at the same time increasing the number of older people, it will require 0.6 per cent, that is to say that from in here we must have a political attitude that we want to spend the money that needs to be spent, as one part, but the other part, that we are seriously considering what we are doing; what kind of financial incentives are there and make sense out in the individual departments? Those discussions are supposed to be my thing. The Radical Left would very much like to take part in this work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122549	There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122553	Thank you. In fact, I was not trying to make fun of the maternity departments mentioned by the rapporteur. I'd like to say that. I am actually making an effort to take seriously the criticism that also comes from the maternity wards. We're gonna have to discuss this in a minute. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: does the rapporteur agree that the 2-percent productivity requirement is a general, an overall requirement to be met by the regions and that there is therefore no requirement to give birth to 2%? Faster?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122630	That is true, but it does not change the fact that the situation you are in on the maternity wards is that you are experiencing it as a saving right now. One of the things that really impressed me at the hearing we had was when they told me that there is the paradox that when, on the one hand, they succeed in actually getting more women to give birth naturally and less with cesarean cuts, they are cut into the money, and on the other hand said that it is difficult to meet the productivity requirement of the 2%, as women both get older and thicker and more ill. So I fully agree that the Left is trying to say: yes, yes, it is overall, but that is why we still have a responsibility to ensure that the model together also makes sense in the individual department.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122718	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122720	I also assume that the rapporteur agrees that it is the regions which overall assess where they can bring savings, if that is what you would call it, efficiency gains, productivity gains, you can call it many things. I would just like to make sure that the rapporteur agrees with the premise that there is no requirement for women on the part of the government, on the part of the Left or on the part of any political party to give birth to 2%. Faster. If the rapporteur thinks this is a requirement, I would like to know whether the rapporteur is aware that some departments have actually asked women to give birth 2%. Faster.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122756	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122758	No, but I think that where there may be a slight disagreement between the Left and the Radical Left, there is, of course, what it is that the parliamentary responsibility is in this. Because it is true that it is the regions that decide the details, but they are subject to the framework that is in here, and so I would like to say on behalf of the Radical Left that we would very much like to enter into a discussion on whether we can jointly find better governance models.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122823	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122826	Thank you. First of all, I would just like to say that the 2-percent productivity requirement has, of course, and it is also true that when it is a general requirement for the 2%, it does not mean that 2% should be saved. in all departments. It just means that if there are departments where there are not saved 2%. This means that there will then be other departments where more than 2% will have to be saved. We see that, among other things. in psychiatry and in the medical wards. The rapporteur said that she felt that what we presented was irresponsible. In other words, does the rapporteur also believe that this is an irresponsible demand made by the Danish Regions? Does the rapporteur think that it is irresponsible when the trade unions have made that request? Does the rapporteur think that the Medical Association, for example, is in a position to do something about it? Are you out of your mind? I received a request yesterday from the Medical Association, and the radical rapporteur did of course also, calling for us to cancel the productivity requirement in 2018 to look at what could then be of other management options. It is actually exactly the same as what we write in our proposal for adoption. Does the rapporteur also think that the Medical Association is untrue?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203122930	I think it is serious, to use that word now, to raise a discussion on the productivity requirement and what should come after it. But we, as politicians, have the responsibility to manage wisely, and that is why we also have a responsibility, I believe, and we in the Radical Left believe, because the moment we propose to abolish the productivity requirement is because we have a better model. And what Enhedslisten and the Alternative have presented a proposal for adoption on today is that we should simply abolish the productivity requirement. And I think we owe it to show what the second solution is before we can have a serious debate on it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123007	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123008	Well, I can only say that there is a broad consensus among both Danske Regions and the professional organisations that the 2-percent requirement is exactly what makes it impossible for us to move forward in that discussion and that we will have to start abolishing it before we start looking at the other things. For the reality is that the 2-percent productivity requirement is an obstacle to the development of new management methods because there is always the rigid requirement. So as new control mechanisms are developed, which we are also proposing in our proposal, it is a clear condition that productivity requirements should also be abolished, otherwise rigid governance will always be there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123045	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123046	That may be the difference between Enhedslisten and the Radical Left, because in politics you can choose whether you stand outside and just criticize, or whether you go into the engine room and take responsibility for the control. I feel this way, and the Radical Left feels that if we are to abolish the productivity requirement, it must be because we have a better governance model. It has not presented the Enhedslisten and the Alternative today, and that is why we welcome the debate, but we must also say that this model must be drawn up before it can simply be abolished.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123117	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123120	Thank you. I think it is sad to hear that the rapporteur considers me and the alternative to be irresponsible. I also think it is a pity that I am being shot in the shoes to think and quote something about the fact that there are unbridled amounts of money, because I do not think I have spoken about that at all today. I think it is part of the text of the proposal for adoption that we are interested in finding some other governance models. But instead of hearing that someone is shooting me or someone else in the shoes, I would really like to hear the rapporteur's attitude to the requirement of productivity. After all, there has been a broad consensus today that this is not the best way. And if the rapporteur does not agree with that, it seems that only the Radicals do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123218	I would like to repeat that, in this way, I agree with the parties that the productivity requirement has played the role it should have had and that I would very much like to help find a different model of governance. But the alternative owes an explanation, because if you do just what the alternative is proposing today, namely abolishing the productivity requirement, then that means that all the money that would cover the additional treatments that you can get for the productivity requirement is missing. And as long as the alternative comes with zero kroner to fund it, I think it is an irresponsible proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123253	Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123254	What the alternative helps to suggest today is that some other models of control are being looked at; so I think that here we are being shot some things in the shoes. When there are a whole lot of organisations and when there are a whole lot of professionals going out and saying that it is not an effective way the productivity requirement works; when you can hear that there are people being operated on in a four-man room while there are relatives and other patients present, then there is something that does not work in relation to the way you control it now. What we are asking is: is it due to the productivity requirement? Shouldn't we find a new model? That is actually what the text says.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123340	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123341	We are in complete agreement on that part of that. I also think that we should set work in motion and ensure that a different model is developed. But where the chain jumps off for me is when the alternative along with the Enhedslisten says: we just have to abolish the productivity requirement, and then we have to see when there is another model. The order has to be reversed. We need to develop the new model before we can abolish the productivity requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123406	Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123410	I would like to know whether the rapporteur does not think it is a reasonable consideration that, if you want 2% to be made. More in the regions, in the hospitals, so also say that then you must have the funds corresponding to it. Is it not reasonable that when it is decided to increase the amount of work, the funds corresponding to the amount of work are also given? That is what lies in the whole discussion of 2% efficiency: you increase the amount of work by 2%. for the same means. That is, in fact, the problem in it. Then I would just like to repeat, for the sake of order, what our proposal for adoption says. It says: "The parties of the Danish Parliament are instructing the government to open negotiations with Danske Regions and the health professional organisations to develop a new health care management tool. So there is also in the motion for a resolution which we have tabled that we should:
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123508	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123509	The Minister may shortly be able to supplement the negotiations on the economic agreement. Because if what should be done is possible, you should damn well dieme no, you can't say that, then you have to work very quickly to create a new management model. That is why I just want to stick to the premise that the model must be in place. Yes, let us do exactly what you are proposing to do with creating a new model, but it must be in place before you can just table a proposal for adoption with a text on abolishing the productivity requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123539	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123541	In fact, at least one region already has a different model of governance. Region Sjælland has created a model where they have what is called value-based management instead, but even if they have a new model, it does not change that the saving, the 2-percent efficiency, is indirectly there too. So it still remains that if you want 2%. more, you also have to pay 2%. More.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123614	I buy that argument a lot along the way and yet not. For me, for example. a very large difference in education and health. In the field of education, in the Radical Left, we are strongly opposed to the re-priority contribution, because so much of the cost of our teaching area goes to pay to teachers, so it does not make any sense to cut back, because it will have the consequence of having to sack teachers and thus lower education. The same is not true of health, where we are very concerned about that. However, there is also an opportunity in the health service for new technologies, with new forms of treatment, with wiser ways of organising things to improve efficiency and, therefore, efficiency is not equal to saving health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123706	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. There are no more brief comments. So we move on to Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203123714	Thank you to Enhedslisten for a very important question, which also calls for action, and thank you to the Minister for the statement. There is a strong run in the hospital halls, really strong even. We hear again and again from health professionals that they have to work more quickly than is technically justifiable. For health professionals, the requirement of efficiency means that the working environment is now so strained that more people quit or go down with stress. Nurses and social and health assistants tell us that necessary tasks are not being solved and that mistakes are being made due to too little time for patients. We cannot be familiar with this either with the staff of our hospital system or with patients. It is not just a question of the management of the hospitals or of the municipalities being better able to take the patients home. We have already seen more consequences of far too many tasks for too few hands. There is no doubt that, in particular, the requirement for hospitals to be more efficient than 2%. a year, plays a role in that development. I have listened to some recognition of the need for some other budgetary parameters. That is why we in the SF also agree that future agreements on hospital budgets should be based on parameters other than cynical green harvesting methods. For example, it is much more interesting to look at how we create good and sustainable results. It is interesting to look at how we create more equality in health at a time when there is a proven difference in our opportunities depending on our living conditions. It is important for SF that we ensure that all subject areas are taken into account, regardless of the fact that not all subject areas have equally strong patient organisations that can speak the case of patients. In the SF we also have no doubt that we need here and now solutions in relation to particularly starving areas in the health sector. In the SF, we have not firmly established ourselves in a particular way to solve the challenges. We have only made it clear that solutions need to be found to ensure patients the right treatment and to ensure that employees have a good working environment. We cannot ignore the fact that 2% efficiency is no longer a useful parameter in the budgets of the regions. That is why I had hoped that Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen could add in the proposal for adoption that we should consider parameters other than the general 2-percent efficiency requirement which has prevailed over the past many years. I'm gonna share sir. Peder Hvelplund's listing of the challenges in the health sector, but I am not convinced that one-sided compensation equals 2%. across the board is the right solution. I believe, for example, that there is also a need to look at differentiated models where some areas need something more and some others may need something less. Therefore, the SF also does not vote in favour of the Enhedslisten's proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124035	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment. Here you go, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124040	Thank you. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the speech. In relation to what the rapporteur said at the end of the debate, I just got a little curious about the fact that a differentiated model can be drawn up. In other words, is the rapporteur of the opinion that Parliament must impose a saving framework on the regions before any improvements can be achieved in public health care?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124110	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124110-2	No. I am of the opinion that we need to find a model that is reasonable and I do not think that we can sit here and judge today whether that is one way or the other way we should do it. I have no doubt that there is a lack of money and there is a lack of resources in some parts of the healthcare system, but I also think that there are opportunities to look at whether the tasks can be solved in other ways. If, for example, you're gonna have to... Imagine that the municipalities manage to solve some of the tasks they have to take care of, and it will certainly be able to relieve the burden in the hospitals. If we succeed in the specialization that is in the hospitals today, then we may also be able to work differently and organise work differently. I believe that there are many different reasons why things merge in some very specific places and do not work, while in other areas there may be room for us to still develop away.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124209	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124210	Yes, but what I'm asking for is the rather rigid control method used to put savings frameworks in, because what we're doing now, whether or not we're saying it's generally 2%. Across the board, or it is a more differentiated model, is to say that every year there has to be a requirement and that the regions can be punished if they fail to meet that requirement. And what we hear from the professional organizations is the more we want to be free from the requirement that there is no constant expectation that there should be a constant efficiency, because it is actually possible to do so, but we cannot sit down and look at an excelark and say: exactly as much we can streamline the next year in this department. And it is more to hear whether the rapporteur does not agree with that view.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124256	I'm thinking that sir... Peder Hvelplund may not have been paying attention, as I actually said that we do not believe that the efficiency framework of 2% remains a useful method. In fact, I am also listening to the whole House that there is agreement on that. But I also think it is fair to try to give ourselves space to arrive at what the right solution is. I think there is room for improvement. I don't just think it's about spending more and more money on the assumption that people are getting sicker and sicker. I think it is more about looking at what needs to be done, because we can avoid people getting sick, because there is no quality of life in being sick.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124336	There is one more brief comment from Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124339	Thank you. I would like to know what the rapporteur's position is about the regions being more efficient by 2.4 per cent when it has only been agreed and they have only been asked to be more efficient by 2%.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124351	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124352	Well, I think that the regions are working wisely, and I am sure that the regions have also had a reason to do things differently from what was actually provided for in an excelark. And that's what a smart employer really does. So the money is still in use in relation to areas where there is a need for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124414	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124415	In view of the fact that even more efficiency has been achieved than had been agreed, it is just surprising that it is being made such a huge problem that it has been agreed that 2% should be made more effective. What is the point of the rapporteur's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124437	So, I think that Mrs May-May-Britten Kattrup completely ignores the fact that it is possible to listen throughout the country to the fact that both staff and management are saying that this way of managing budgets is not going to last. Fortunately, I am also listening to the fact that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber that there must be some other ways of solving the problems in the future. I do not think that unilateral green harvesting methods are the solution in the future. I think we need to think much wiser in relation to the budget, so there is also room to operate after there is a greater need in some places than elsewhere.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124511	We thank Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen and go further in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124532	Several rapporteurs have been busy cutting down the productivity requirement in this Chamber today. Let me start by reminding you that, thanks to the introduction of the productivity requirement in 2007, since the beginning of the 00s, we have almost halved the waiting period for non-life threatening suffering from 90 days to 48 days. That is the right development. There are many of us who remember the long waiting times that in the past made life miserable for ourselves, our children, our parents and friends who should have removed, for example. complain or have new knees or new hips and much more. Thanks to the productivity requirement, a semi-low hospital became healthy and far along the way super efficient. Old, dusty workflows have gone through with a close comb and changed, new technology has been introduced and tasks solved more efficiently. Thanks to robotics, analysis work at the Laboratory Centre at Vejle Hospital can now reduce response times for acute analysis from 21⁄2 hours to only 60 minutes. It is also striking that for example. Region Sjælland had a productivity increase of impressive 6.2 per cent. from 2014 to 2015, or that in the same period the Region of North Jutland had a productivity increase of 4.2 per cent. The practice of making health care more efficient was healthy and necessary. Having said that, Conservatives respect the fact that staff are running faster and that there is a busy working day in hospitals across the country. In some areas and departments, productivity requirements cannot necessarily be continued. Food departments are an example which has been mentioned several times in the public debate lately. But it has never been the starting point that all departments should make it more effective. Basically, it is the regions, the hospitals locally and the responsible doctors who have jointly been responsible for implementing the productivity requirement in the best possible way and ensuring the highest quality. We have read in the media about over-treatment of patients, so that hospitals can meet productivity requirements, patients who have unnecessary blood tests, yes, even unnecessary surgery. I guess the system's come before the patient. It may well be that hospitals have now been overtreated themselves, with the requirement of productivity, and it may well be that the health service itself should have a different measuring instrument and defined new requirements. Conservatives just lack the right alternative to ensure efficient hospital operation without the waiting lists rising again. However, we enter open and responsive into further negotiations when the economy with the regions is to be renegotiated.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124906	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. I'm sorry, I'm asking you to press in just a tiny bit earlier, and we've had it sometimes. But at least now it's sir. Bruno Jerup, who has a brief comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124919	I would just like to ask whether the rapporteur is aware of or has an assessment that the over-treatment referred to is in fact not a coincidence, but perhaps a consequence of the productivity requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203124940	It is difficult for me to answer the reason for the overtreatment that has been mentioned. But I'd say I think it's nice. Among other things: Region Sjælland, from which we ourselves come, has managed to streamline and do things in other ways, so that they have been able to meet this productivity requirement • even as much as 6.2 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125019	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125020	So again, when, as the rapporteur also says, it may well be that this productivity requirement has survived its time, is it not necessary to take the consequences of it as well, and to say that all right, then it must stop if it is the case that it has, like, survived the time when it works?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125033	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125034	As I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, we are, in fact, open to looking at whether there are any alternatives. I just miss hearing something alternative to this productivity requirement, because there aren't oceans of money, that's what it is, and I hope Enhedslisten is aware of that too. That's the way it is. So I actually miss hearing from the Enhedslisten what the alternative is. How will effective management of hospitals be ensured? How will high quality and patient satisfaction be ensured? I think I miss hearing that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125117	We thank Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel as rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125130	Thank you for today's debate. When I listen to one of them... Some of the Enhedslisten's questions, I get such a feeling that you have written down your question before you came to the Chamber today and that you do not depart from your paper or listen to what is actually being said. That is why I think there is good reason to repeat some of what I said in my opening speech. We very much welcome this debate. We're already in full swing. It is to kick in an open door if you want to talk about governance and focus on what creates value for patients, and on how we develop our healthcare system in the coming years too. I have also said before that my door is open for discussion. This applies to the Committee on Health, and it also applies to the regions where I have a dialogue with the five regional presidents. This applies to the professional organizations which I have had the pleasure of meeting with a number of. I think it is important that we take this dialogue. It is both about very concrete problems that may be in the different places of our healthcare, but also about the overall management of our healthcare and about how we constantly develop the governance, so that we ensure the maximum value for money, so that we have a balanced focus, as is also shown by the proposal for adoption, which I am pleased to see so many of Parliament's parties backing up. It is a balanced focus both on activity, quality and patient safety and on how we ensure that the resources we spend on our health care also ensure as much health as possible for the money and also do away with the geographical inequality we unfortunately still see in some places in our health care. After all, the Enhedslisten has made it somewhat a discussion that we do not spend any resources on our healthcare and that the 2-percent productivity requirement that exists is an expression of a saving exercise. In this context, I would just like to remind you that since 2007 we have actually added an extra 13 billion. kr. to our health care system. Since 2007, there have been more employees. It's 20 percent. More doctors than there were in 2007, and there are 13 per cent. More nurses. This corresponds to the fact that 13 more doctors are employed every year at each of our 24 hospitals and on average 21 more nurses. And I think it is important that we keep in mind that last year, too, with an agreement with the Danish People's Party, the Conservative People's Party and the Liberal Alliance, the Left Government secured an additional contribution to health care of 2.4 billion. kr., and also this year, the three-clover government, together with the Danish People's Party, as the Finance Party, has increased the framework for our overall health care, because our health care system is a pillar of our welfare society, and this requires that we prioritise it. It also requires that we constantly look at how to improve the management system and control more balanced and up-to-date. We are very much in the process of a change of track in the management of health care, where the previous focus on activity and productivity is fine-tuned so that we have a modern and more balanced focus on activity, quality, cost and patient safety within the means that we give priority to health. That is also why, in the context of the economic agreement last year, we introduced eight national quality objectives in the field of health, while phasing out the accreditation of public hospitals, which we know have led to unnecessary bureaucracy and which we know were the subject of great frustration among very many of the employee groups we have also talked about today. We have constantly made adjustments to the state's pool of activities, and most recently we have changed the municipal cofinancing of regional health care so that we have addressed some of the problems that exist. We must continue to do so. Then, as many of the rapporteurs have said, together with the regions, we have also launched a series of experiments on value-based governance. These are attempts that I look forward to following and that it is also important that we follow, because we cannot just say overnight, as Enhedslisten indicates, that now we are just pretending that there are no governance principles, we are now abolishing what we have without looking at how we can develop our health care management model with the attempts that have been made. So for the government, it is essential that we focus on the quality and patient safety of the regional hospital system, with the aim of having a strong and good healthcare system for all our citizens, and not least for our patients, but also for staff and also for taxpayers, because it is also a question of ensuring that the resources we provide to the area are spent on as much health as possible. As I also said in my opening speech, we must focus on re-hospitals, which unfortunately we still see too many of, infections, misoperations, accidental incidents and on the waste that we also see in our health services in some places. Therefore, both quality and patient safety will also be included as important parameters in the economic negotiations on the regional economy that the government will have with the regions this spring. We also continuously focus on how we can develop our current management even better so that we avoid waste, precisely so that we ensure more quality for the patient, precisely so that we ensure a strong focus on the conditions and working conditions of the employees in our healthcare system and so that you as a patient can be sure that you receive good quality treatment, no matter where you live in the country. This is the work of the government I welcome the broad support in this Chamber for the importance of the work that is under way and which must continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125713	There are a few brief comments. The first one's from sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125715	When the Minister for Health says that more resources have been added to the health care system, that is unassailable. That's right. At the same time, however, more services have also been ordered. We have experienced increasing pressure, both in terms of treatment and in terms of increasing medical costs, and when we talk about a productivity requirement, this means that, in addition to what we pay extra, we expect staff to run faster as well. At least that is the consequence, and that is what we hear from the professional organisations. That is why I cannot quite understand why the Minister for Health says that what we are presenting here is not serious, or that it is just such a thing that we do not have to have governance. In fact, that is not the message, either from the regions or from the health professional organisations. But I would like to ask the Minister of Health to confirm that with the productivity requirement of 2%. It is the case that from last year to this year we expect the regions to provide services for 1.3 billion. kr. more than they did last year, without receiving financial compensation for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125820	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125821	As I said in my opening speech, the regions have delivered much more productivity than was agreed. On average, they have delivered 2.4 per cent. In 2015 alone, there was an increase in productivity which had an increase in value of around 4 billion. kr. in the DRG beyond what was agreed. So this is a discussion that Enhedslisten is trying to blow up as if it should be a requirement. Some of it is precisely a desire for the benefit of patients in the individual region to reorganise some services so that resources can be released from one place to another, and something is an expression of a new technology and shorter admissions, as many of the rapporteurs have also pointed out, that a health service has been provided where a large number of improvements and developments have taken place, and we do not want to put that at risk. This does not mean that we should not look at a new governance model, but we should just focus on the fact that what Enhedslisten is proposing is just pretending that there should be no development.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125918	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125920	I will then have to ask the Minister for Health whether this is an expression of the fact that the Minister for Health does not consider it to be a problem today. When health professional organisations point out that the exact 2-percent requirement is responsible for pressure on the working environment and for patient safety being threatened, is it just an expression of some airy idea among health professional organisations? In other words, it sounds as if that is how the Minister of Health sees it when it is said that the regions have been able to save 2.4 per cent that it has not been a problem. Yeah, it's a problem, and the problem is exactly that you put in these rigid steering targets. Otherwise, I think the Minister for Health should go out and have a reality check with the health professional organizations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125958	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203125959	As I already said in my opening speech, we are very much listening to the concerns that come from health professionals in different places. I also said in my introductory speech that I think it is important that we also have a discussion on what productivity requirements mean, including as they stand today. It is not a hepatic posture management requirement that must be imposed on all departments without any management position. And that is a bit of the discussion we should have about how we manage our health care. What kind of leadership, including value-based management, is it going to take, where priorities are also dared to be set? Then I have to say that I have a great deal of pride in the staff of departments where the number of infections is reduced. It is also productivity, it is professional pride and it goes hand in hand. I think that's a strength, so don't make it a schism.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130046	Thank you. Then it's mr. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130048	I would like the Minister to be a little precise. The minister was very clear when it came to more staff and more resources being spent, but what is the essence is that it may well be that more has come, but there have been even more tasks that have been asked to be done by the regions and hospitals. Is the Minister aware of the fact that it may well be that more has been put into the system, but that even more has been demanded or expected?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130122	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130123	It is true that in some places we treat more. We have shorter waiting lists, more than 40 days shorter than they were when the VK government joined. I think that is extremely positive. We have reinstated some unique patient rights in order to keep the focus on patients neither standing and dying on the waiting list nor becoming more ill. These are some of the gains that have been achieved. Are there places where you run fast? Yes, there is, and that's what I said at the beginning. That's one of the things we're focusing on. We also focus on how to ensure a management that does not go beyond patient safety or the quality of our health services, and where we pay attention to the fact that there are places where you cannot run faster than you do, but that there are other places where you need to use new technology, where you need to take advantage of the more gentleness of the treatment methods, take less time and require shorter admissions, and thus, overall, you can save on that, for example. An operation that previously took a long time now takes less time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130220	Sir. Bruno Jerup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130226	Can I interpret the Minister's reply that the Minister agrees with me that more tasks have actually been laid out, that more things have been done than has been paid for?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130233	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130237	I have no wish for the Enhedslisten to interpret what I am saying. I think we should listen to what I am saying, and that is that, fortunately, in many places in our health services today, more value has come to the money. We have a better survival rate in the area of cancer, for example, because we have received better treatment. It is both some cancer packages that have made the processes better and some unique patient rights that have enabled you to be treated on time. It is all progress that helps to make our health services stronger and better for the benefit of patients. But there are also places where we can hear that there is a concern in relation to employee relationships and in relation to patient safety. We must take this seriously, and I do so as a minister in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130312	Then it's Mrs. Pernille Schnoor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130315	Thank you. I would just like to end on a positive note, I think it is called, in English at least. I think this has been a positive debate. I think that this is too serious a problem for it to be used to put opinions in one another's shoes or to tease each other. And I think it has actually been a very positive and constructive debate. I would also like to thank the Minister for precisely recognizing the need for a change of direction and for setting this work in motion. This was precisely what was important in relation to the alternative input to this text of adoption, that is to say that we need this new management tool and that there is confidence that employees and health professionals can also be involved in that work. I would also like to thank the Minister for acknowledging the need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130409	You're welcome. I think that is also very clear from the broad adoption, which I am pleased that so many parties in the Folketing are behind. This was the reason why, in the economic agreement with the regions last year, the Left Government launched the work on the eight national objectives, which are precisely about quality and management and the development of new models, the experiments with the regions, and also the fact that last year we abolished the draft law before Christmas, but thus abolished the accreditation model, which was unnecessarily bureaucratic and took up time from the employees, which could instead be spent on patients. So yes, there is a change of direction, but it is important that we develop this properly, because it is about our overall health care, and therefore, in respect for both employees and patients, we need to make a lot of effort to look at which models work and which ones do not work. We need to look at where it is that adjustments are needed and where there is a need to continue focusing on how to bring in new technology, new medicine, better treatment methods for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130506	Thank you, Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130520	When we reported this question debate, it was because we think it is an important issue and because we thought we had heard some parties point out that they agreed that this issue should be addressed. In summing up the debate we have had here today, I have to say that what we are apparently best at in here is listening. We have talked a lot about listening. We must listen to the professional organisations and listen to each other. But if we now listen to the professional organisations and to the experts of reality and the welfare alliance who stood out here on the stairs this morning before we started the negotiations, then we can see that the message is quite clear. The message is that what stands in the way of healthy professional development in health and public hospitals is the requirement for productivity. This is the firm demand that 2% be made more effective. every year across the board and that overall running is 2%. Faster. The consequence is quite clear. We hear it from the trade unions, and we see it in the examples that appear almost monthly in the press. Most recently we have seen it with the fire inspectorate, which gave a note to the hospital in Holbæk, because there were too many patients on the hallways and it was a danger to fire safety. If you go in and read the instructions given by the Danish Labour Inspectorate, which Denmark's Radio has been given access to, and which the Danish Nursing Council has also gathered together, you can see that it is quite clear that we are talking about a health service that is pressured beyond what is reasonable. In fact, the Danish Regions themselves point this out. They say they can't control this model anymore. And when you hear today about us inventing something new, managing in a different way, low value-based management, then the very clear question from Danske Regioner must be: How are we to invent new management methods if the demand is still to be made more efficient by 2%. Every year? There is no answer to that question. We tell them to do something else, but we don't do anything else. We maintain the demand and say that we still need to make things more efficient. If this is the framework, how can we expect Danske Regions to deliver more? How can we expect health professionals to be able to deliver more if we do not reach out? When I read the proposal for adoption, on which there is broad agreement, and where it says: "The Danish Parliament considers that the staff's criticism of a stressful day-to-day life should be listened to, and expects the regions as employers to follow up on the situation, then I think that if we ask out in reality, they do not understand what it says here. We say it has to get better, but we keep doing the same. I just don't think they get it, and when we have debates like this, I understand that sometimes there is an idea that there is an elite and there is a people. Because I don't think we're dealing with the reality that's out there. I think we're sitting in here looking at the world through some spreadsheets and dealing with what we think reality should look like. And then, by the way, we can't understand why the people who are out there aren't looking for it. I think we're trying to create a picture that we're in a completely different reality than they are out there. I think this is a serious problem and I have to say that I had sincerely hoped that the debate we have here today could help to correct it. I think that instead of leaving this debate with an idea that we continue to do the same, we hope that reality will conform to our theory. I think that's too bad. But I hope that the debate can at least give rise to the professional staff who are out there and those elected by the regions to see that the extended hand does not come from Christiansborg. If that productivity requirement is to be removed, it requires that the trade unions and the regional elected bodies take up the fight and that they fight it through. 'Cause it's not gonna be from here that the help comes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130953	There are a few brief comments. First, Mrs Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203130957	Thank you. Now Mr. Peder Hvelplund very much about that we I am really glad that we do, because I don't think Enhedslisten does. After all, you are not listening to what we are saying when we say that what we want is not to make ultimate demands, but it is to talk to the Minister for Health and press for something to be changed. So I am thinking of what Enhedslisten did in those years when it supported a red government that had exactly the same productivity requirement. Did they go to the Finance Act negotiations and say to the Red Government: We don't support your Finance Act unless you take this away?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131035	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131039	Now it is the case that this productivity requirement is something that is agreed in the economic agreement between the government and Danske Regions, and I can assure Mrs Liselott Blix that Enhedslisten did not vote for those agreements. The Danish People's Party did that, the Social Democracy did so, and the governing parties did so. If that is the case, then it is quite simple: then you have to give a clear message to the government that you do not support such a demand being carried through because you then vote against the economic agreement that is being concluded. This is the last time we have heard that we are simply voting in favour of it. If the government enters into an agreement with Danske Regions, you vote per. automatics for. I think that is a strange way of exercising its political mandate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131115	Mrs. Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131119	When an agreement is made, there are parties to the agreement, and we respect them. We respect it when you make a deal. When the trade union movement makes an agreement with the Employers' Association, it is in the same way as when a government makes agreements with KL or the regions. The Enhedslisten, when it was a support party for a red government, could have overturned the government if it had made an ultimate demand, but it did not. One could have made the agreement that the government should not make that agreement with KL and the regions, but Enhedslisten did not. Why not?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131153	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131157	As I said before, the Enhedslisten voted against those economic agreements. Well, Mrs Liselott Blix, it is quite simple. If you take the situation today, the government has to make an agreement with the regions about this. If there is a majority in the Folketing which requires the government to say that this productivity requirement should not be included in the negotiations, then the government does not have a majority in favour of it. And when Mrs Liselott Blixt says that we should not; when the Enhedslisten says that we should not; when the Socialists say that we should not; in fact, there is a majority outside the government to ensure that that demand is not carried into the negotiations.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131227	Then it's Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131230	I would like to ask Enhedslisten what Enhedslisten's solution is, because if you simply remove the productivity requirement without replacing anything else, you can do one of two things. You can either say that we do not treat more people, or you can give funding to pay to treat more people. Where's that money coming from?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131253	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131255	This isn't really a question of giving more money. It's just a question of saying that you don't ask anyone to deliver the same thing and then get less for it, because that's what this is all about. It is, of course, as has been said before, that this is not about savings. Because it doesn't. It is about efficiency, it is about expecting people to continue to provide the same service without having more time or money for it, i.e. money for the regions and time for the employees, and that is totally unfair. That is also what the Medical Association points to in their presentation, namely that they say that we cancel the productivity requirement for 2018, and then we sit down and look at how we can then create a new governance model, and that is also what lies in the proposal for adoption that Enhedslisten has presented together with the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131339	Mrs. Lotte Rod.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131341	Let me ask you one more time, because what the productivity requirement makes possible is that we can treat more people. If Enhedslisten just says that now we remove the productivity requirement, we do not put any other form of governance in place, then Enhedslisten either owes it to answer where more money should come from, and I hear that you say that you will not find any more money, then you have to do the other thing and say that okay, then you see in the Enhedslisten with open eyes that we cannot treat more people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131412	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131414	Listen to me. It's kind of simple. When we say in the Enhedslisten that we must abolish the productivity requirement, we are, of course, willing to go out and find additional funding for health care. It is just on the simple principle that if we ask for more, we are also paying for it, because the second consequence of doing what the government is doing now is that one party is going to pay for this, and that is the staff, because you cannot keep finding efficiency for 2%. That is why it means that the only place you can find them is by the staff running faster and that is simply not fair. So it is a very basic principle that if we order more, we will of course pay more, and we will certainly be in favour of finding funding for that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131452	Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131455	I would just like to ask whether the Enhedslisten recognises that the money from the productivity requirement of 2%. remain in the regions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131504	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131506	Yes, but at the same time it is also the case that the regions are subject to a budgetary ceiling which means that the regions are not just free to dispose of it. It means you can't just go out and spend the money. In fact, there are regions that have money to invest. They just do not have the opportunity to do so because of the fixed ceiling in the regions and the budgetary ceiling. So it is true that the regions can keep some of the money themselves, but they just cannot decide for themselves what to do with it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131529	Mrs. Jane Heitmann.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131530	I'm gonna try to ask you again. Recognizes Enhedslisten that the money from the productivity requirement of 2%. remain in the regions?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131539	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131540	Yes, and then I have to ask the rapporteur 'Now the rapporteur does not have the opportunity to reply, but we can then take that afterwards' • Whether the rapporteur will not recognise that the government through the agreement, among other things. With the EU's requirements, there is a budgetary ceiling and a fixed ceiling to which the regions are subject, and therefore they cannot simply go out and spend the money they save for what they want.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131558	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131606	Thank you. It must also be a simple question from me: Does the Enhedslisten recognise regional and municipal autonomy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131613	Yes, we do so to such an extent, and that is precisely why we do not want to subject the regions to the demands of the budgetary ceiling and the capital ceiling that the government and the Danish People's Party have helped to impose on them. We think that the regions should be set free.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131627	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131630	It is a bit funny to say that you recognise local and regional autonomy, but when a region or a municipality makes an agreement with a government, you do not recognise that agreement can stand. There you will go in and vote against. So I do not really understand how Enhedslisten recognises municipal and regional autonomy. Can the rapporteur clarify this a little?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131650	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131653	Well then, I would recommend to the rapporteur that the rapporteur brings out the Jyllands-Posten from 10 December and reads the letter sent by all Regional Council Presidents, calling on the government to withdraw the productivity requirement from the negotiations. Both Presidents of the Regional Council of the Left and the Social Democratic Party say very clearly that they cannot continue to meet the demands contained therein. So we recognise regional self-government to such an extent, and I would urge the other parties in the Folketing to do so too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131721	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131732	First of all, I would like to say that I simply do not agree with Mr McMillan-Scott. Peder Hvelplund in that around the Chamber there is a lack of courage in doing something about the two per cent efficiency, as is the case, sir. Peder Hvelplund is absolutely right that organisations, patients and staff point to as a solution. I think it is also true that people have an experience that they cannot continue to streamline. This has to be listened to, and I am actually told by all the rapporteurs that this is being listened to. I also think that less activity equals 2%. I would like to make a few comments on this matter. Well, speaking of the birthers, we can't ask the birthers to stop giving birth. They keep doing that, and that just means that you have to run stronger anyway. So that equation can't be seen with my eyes hanging together in the way Mr. Peder Hvelplund puts it on. I think there might be a need for something else to be done. In other words, inequality in health means that in some areas a great deal of staff is lacking, and this also means that in some areas there is a real need for more activity. Could it be imagined that there was a need for us to sit down and embrace the way we think about money in the health sector in general?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131852	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203131854	Well, I guess there's definitely some sense in that. I have heard today that there is broad support for us to look at the way we calculate tariffs, for example. The DRG tariffs. I am not one of those who says that they should simply be abolished; in fact, I think it is rather complicated to look at how to make a proper settlement model. DRG tariffs can be good in some contexts, while in other contexts they can be very little constructive. However, I just think that what is absolutely crucial is the message from the professional organisations and from the Danish Regions that it is that we per. the automatic introduction of an increased productivity requirement of 2%. or at 11⁄2%. or 0.7 per cent, or whatever you might find, is too rigid a way to control. We simply need to give some more freedom back to the professionals, that is to say that professional responsibility comes back to the staff; that responsibility comes back where it belongs, that of the professional staff. It is not the case that professional staff want things to be difficult or to work badly. They actually want it to work rationally, and that is the responsibility we say we want to move back.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132008	Well, now Mr. Peder Hvelplund precisely the DRG tariffs, which are a very good example of something that doctors have a great deal of focus on. I heard Morten Hedegaard from the maternity ward at Rigshospitalet say that he actually ended up having only 47 percent, understood that the other 53 percent. Then somewhere else was in the hospital. And that also shows that there is something that can be done in a different way. I know that the Central Jutland Region is in the process of creating a different operating system than the DRG tariffs, and you have, for example, a system of control. at the Region Hospital Silkeborg collected a number of specialties so that patients can be diagnosed more quickly. This is an expression of efficiency. So the thing about trying to think again I'm gonna be healthy for the Health Committee in general or what?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132051	Thank you. I have said this once before, and I repeat it now: it has been a long debate, and we have two long debates ahead of us, so that we can get through this Friday in a proper way, I would ask that we just skew down to timing and just stay around the moment. I'm actually a patient person, and I'm only getting up when it's good on the other side that you've spent your time. So I think we should help each other through the rest of the day. Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132116	Thank you. And I would like to acknowledge the patience of the President; I can only say that I have also been able to observe that. I certainly believe that this should be looked at in relation to the DRG tariffs and, as I said, I can see that that system can be good in some areas and problematic in other areas. But what is the point in relation to this is that the efficiency requirement itself will just have to be removed first, that is, before we start looking at new control mechanisms. And that is actually what the trade union organizations are calling for: that we have to remove the productivity requirement and that, in addition, we have to look at the whole way of managing the economy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132157	Then it's Mrs. May-May-Britten Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132205	Thank you. I would like to ask the rapporteur about the 2%. With 2% now. is such a major problem, how will the rapporteur explain why the regions have chosen to be more efficient for 2.4%, which is therefore more than agreed?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132216	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132219	Now I do not think that this is something the regions have specifically said yes to, and let us make something more efficient and let us save even more. I believe that this is an expression of the approach of governance which lies in the requirement of productivity. Because it is not the case, if we look at the quality of health care, that we can say that we have saved 2.4 per cent. a year and that it has not had any consequences. It has had consequences, and these are the ones we are discussing today. That is why I think it is such a bit of an attempt to derail the debate when you say that when they have been able to save it, it is probably not a problem. Yeah, that's a problem. I think that when they have made more efficient than that, it is because it is the rich management objective they have put in, and it has been precisely that they are looking at productivity alone.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132258	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132301	Yeah, but then we're almost back to something we can agree on. It is because it is not really the 2% requirement that is the problem, but the way it has been implemented, the way it has been managed, and that it has been driven out as a green harvester, which it is not really, and that you have looked at how to do as much action as possible, which gives reward to each department. Can we agree on that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132335	I'm sorry, no. As the rapporteur suggests, we cannot simply impose a requirement that staff should run faster. One cannot just expect that more and more can be provided all the time. We have now done so since 2003. We can't just keep having a demand like that. We have to say: Enough is enough. And that's why we have to stop thinking like that. We cannot just expect that over the next 15 years we can also save 30%. It is simply an impossibility, and that is why it is not just a question of canceling the productivity requirement; it is also a question of a different model of governance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132407	Then it's mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132410	Thank you. This has been a good debate. I think this has been a good debate. When I listen to the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, I do not think it sounds like the rapporteur thinks it has been a good debate. When I think it has been a good debate, it is because we are actually very united that the kind of governance we have now is unsustainable. We cannot bring it into the future in the same way. In fact, I think the Enhedslisten, who has raised this question, should acknowledge that this is actually what has happened in this Chamber today. In fact, we have a minister who has expressed this. We have actually produced a text for adoption with a great many parties behind it, which says that the working environment and listening to staff actually move something on this point. Where I think Enhedslisten a little jumps over where the ferment is lowest, is when it is said that the productivity requirement of the 2%. must be removed before we have assessed what should be instead. The answer given by the rapporteur to Mrs Lotte Rod in relation to whether or not money should be made available seems to me to be simply not coherent. More money is needed or no more money is needed if the demand for the 2% is to be met. Going away?
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132525	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132528	I would now like to say first of all that, in relation to the proposal for adoption which is before us today, I hope that it is not a new idea, that is, a new one. Because what we have here seems to me to be relatively obvious. I guess you've always listened to the staff. I assume, then, that it has always been attempted to include the working environment and patient safety in the negotiations with the regions. When it comes to the economy, it is quite simple for me: if it is the case that we, as Parliament, are setting out a framework in which we expect more services from the regions, then I also expect us to pay for them. It is quite simple, in other words, that we create economic room for manoeuvre. But we tell the staff to deliver 2%. more every year, and I do not think that is fair. It is quite clear that if we go in and demand more health care services, then we have to pay for them and then we have to find the funding for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132618	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132622	I actually agree with that. In fact, I think that is what the broad majority here is all about. That is, in fact, what I think is also expressed in the text of the adoption. This isn't a question of anything stationary. This is a matter of something dynamic. I therefore believe that just the fact that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur can give me the answer that it should not be anything new must be based on the fact that the Enhedslisten's rapporteur has somehow failed to follow the debate here today. In fact, from the three largest parties here it has been stated that rigid governance must be replaced by something else.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132658	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132702	Well, the problem with this is that it's just words. The opportunity to show that there was action behind it was precisely in relation to the economic negotiations with the regions. That's exactly where we could say that we're actually starting to pay for what we get. What we are still doing now is saying that we are still expecting you to go out and find 2%. more out in the wards and out among the staff, because that's what we're laying down on you. Please go out and find it, and then we can start looking at other management methods afterwards. There is nothing new in what is here and nothing new has come out of this debate. This would have been the case if the Social Democracy and DF had been behind their demand for the abolition of the productivity requirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132732	Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132737	Thank you. I would like to know if Enhedslisten recognises that there are no oceans of money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132747	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132750	Yes, of course we recognize it. There are no endless resources, and it will always be about setting some sort of priority. What we think is a fundamental and good principle, including when it comes to demanding health care services, is that you pay for the services you expect to receive.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132807	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132810	Okay, I'm glad to hear that. Then I would like to know what governance model the Enhedslisten has for managing the economy, while at the same time improving and improving skills and reducing waiting times for investigation and treatment for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132826	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132830	Yes, to a large extent, it is a question of returning responsibility to professionalism. That's what this is all about. We don't have a finished model, and it's also not Enhedslisten's job to have it. This is something that must be done in cooperation with the health professional organisations, which we are also proposing in our proposal for adoption. But I had to say that there is enough money to find, for example. in the pharmaceutical industry, which today has a totally horrible and overnormal profit in terms of being able to develop new health care services. This will clearly be one of the areas where we could see that action could be taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132859	No one else has asked to speak, so the debate is over. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will not take place until Tuesday, 7 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132920	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 7 February 2017. In order to justify the question, Mrs Liselot Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203132939	When the Prime Minister gave his speech after the new formation of government, he said that the core of Danish welfare was our health care. We in the Danish People's Party fully agree with him on this, which is why we are very pleased that we have helped to allocate billions over the last few years. Yet we are worried, because there is not much time between the stories where we hear about the busyness of the country's hospitals. We have just had a major debate about the busyness of the country's maternity departments, and this, even though we in the Danish People's Party were given money for the departments. So it is certainly worrying when we hear that precisely in the maternity wards you cannot follow the recommendations that the Danish Health Authority has made precisely in order to have as good and safe an experience as possible and to give the newborn a good start to life. So, of course, we are also thinking of those departments that are not as good at shouting. How do we ensure that they have as much core welfare and get as much attention as the other areas when they do not have either professional organisations or patient-oriented organisations to shout out? That is why we have put this question to the Minister for Health and, of course, we look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203133104	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the answer. Here you go, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203133112	Thank you to the Danish People's Party for the question about the condition of health care, including the birth area. For yes, we fully agree that a safe and good healthcare system is a pillar of our welfare society, and that is precisely why this government, but also the former Left Government, the health service, is a priority and, fortunately, this is something we have done together with the Danish People's Party, also in the financial laws we have made in recent years, both financially but also in terms of focusing on the area, on the quality of treatment and the development of the area. That is why we have also wanted to continue the development and reform of health care, which we led back in 2001 with the VK government, also in a strong and close cooperation with the Danish People's Party. Because there should be no doubt that Denmark should have a health care system that puts the patient at the centre. And that objective must, of course, be reflected in the design of our common healthcare system with strong patient rights, high-quality treatment, new, modern hospitals and coherence of efforts. Since 2015, we have continued our work to ensure a healthcare system on patients' premises. We have done so with a new and improved right of investigation and treatment; we have done so with a cancer plan IV which, with due care, needs to improve quality further with a capacity increase of 2.2 billion. kr. over the next four years; with our action plan for the elderly medical patient; the emergency package against overcrowding to ensure a dignified care and better cooperation between the region and the municipality; with the national dementia action plan, which we all had in the gamble pool parties a very successful symposium for the launch of last week to help ensure a better and secure life for the dementia-stricken and the relatives and also more focus on the skills development of the employees; this also applies to our ongoing work on the close health care and medical coverage across the country. And last but not least, last year, in connection with the economic agreement with the regions, we took the initiative for eight binding national health quality targets, which we reached an agreement on last spring. In 2016, alone, 2.4 billion was added. kr. additional resources have been allocated to health, and this year too additional resources have been allocated. Our common commitment to health has had a noticeable effect on patients and relatives throughout the country. And if we take a snapshot of the current state of our healthcare, we can also see that it is going the right way. That is why I would also like to say a word of thanks to all the parties that are jointly behind proposals for adoption in the question debates today, because it also sends out a signal that, although there may be places where we disagree, and even if there are places where we all recognise that improvements need to be made, we are jointly wary that we must continue to develop our health services and also ensure the security and development of healthcare that is needed for the benefit of patients, but also for the benefit of employees, and to ensure that, with the resources we pay together as taxpayers, we also have the greatest possible health for the money. It goes the right way, fortunately, if we take such a snapshot of the current state. The waiting period for surgery has fallen by more than 40 days since 2001; we see that eight out of ten cancer patients are treated on time compared to seven out of ten just in 2013; 15 years ago five out of ten cancers survived, today it is six out of ten; and not least we can see it when 80%. of the hospitalized outpatients say that they are basically satisfied with the health care they meet. This is a health service which has developed over a number of years. And does that mean that everything is as it should be everywhere? No, it doesn't. There are places where we need to have a special attention. There are places where we need to do better. There is still a large geographical inequality in Denmark when it comes to treatment. There are still challenges, for example. to attract doctors everywhere in the country. And if, for example, we... Looking at how many patients are offered a course of breast cancer on time, we can see that in one region it is nine out of ten patients, while in another region it is only seven out of ten patients. If we look at how many people are forcibly fixed in psychiatry in one region, we are at 8%, while in another region we are down to 5%. After all, it is not fair for patients that we can still see large geographical differences in this way, and that is one of the things we need to work on, including over the coming years. For enough, we have chosen the regions to be our organisational framework for our health services, but for the individual patient it should not be important which region you live in when it comes to ensuring a high quality in our health services; whether it be in the general sector, our general practitioners, be it in our hospitals. All patients should be able to expect a high quality of treatment each time and also expect it to happen without undue waiting. And all regions must also keep up with development, strive for the best treatment, give priority to their needs and also be open to learning from each other. This is also true in the field of birth, which is part of the question debate, and which we have fortunately also had the opportunity to discuss both at the hearing organized by the Health Committee back in December, but also at a conciliation meeting. I think we must be politically immune and argue-resistant if the current debate on the bustle, both at the country's birthplaces and at a number of other departments in the country's hospitals does not impress us. I think it is important that we listen when dedicated and competent employees experience that their everyday life is characterised by busyness, so that they do not feel that they can give the patients either the birthing, be it other patients, the time, the care, the treatment that they would like. It must be safe and safe to feed on the Danish birthplaces all over the country, and it must be safe and safe to be a patient in all our hospitals in every department across the country. And then we have to make sure that the staff, both those we have in the maternity wards and in other departments, also have fair working conditions. This is a prerequisite for giving good treatment, and so it is also one of the main messages if we look specifically at the field of birth, on which the question is also focused, and which was at the heart of the consultation held by the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly on 15 December. We should then just be careful that the challenges of our health services do not lead us to talk our entire health services into a black hole, be it the maternity wards, be it general. Because it would not be respectful to the many employees who work hard every day and make a difference to our patients if we did not also recognise the great work and fortunately the many things that succeed every day and where great improvements are being made. With regard to some of the things we have now spent a few hours on: governance, we do not get around the fact that it is the regions that are our organisational unit in order to develop our health as well and make these operational decisions. They have a good 110 billion. kr. Each year, and far along the way, they can also give priority to themselves. There, of course, we have a task to set the framework, but I also think it is right that we have an expectation that we will also have a regional debate on where it is that we need to use more resources, where it is possible to link the workflows in a different way, where it is necessary to address the current challenges, whether in the field of birth, influenza epidemics, which put particular pressure on some departments, and also to look at the fact that these can be good things, pleasing things, such as rising birth rates, which then make you have to give extra priority to some places, while in other places you have to look at whether you can optimize the workflows. It is about local planning, and it is also about ensuring the freedom to plan locally according to the differences we also see. The regions have a duty to strive for the highest possible level and also to learn from the best when it comes to eliminating geographical inequalities in health, and it is also important that we focus on this, both as Health Minister and as government, but also as Parliament. We in the government want to continue to prioritise and improve and develop our core health welfare, and we will do so in the near future, because if we look forward a little, we will see that there will be more citizens with a cancer that will come with more citizens with a chronic disease and, fortunately, there will also be more births with an increasing birth rate over the next ten years. These are, of course, trends, these are developments that we need to take stock of, both where it is a positive development, but also where it is expressed, by the fact that there are more patients who need our treatment and also need us to prioritise it in terms of resources. That is why we must already exercise due care and equip health care to ensure that all patients can continue to receive high-quality treatment. We must follow developments in the light of, among other things: the eight national health quality targets agreed with Danske Regions and KL last spring, for the eight national targets set a clear direction for how health care should be developed and provide a driving force for local work on quality and patient safety. The objectives are supplemented by indicators that say something about the temperature of our health services if you dare to use such an expression about a health service. This also gives us a progress report on where it is, in particular, regionally as well as in here at Christiansborg, to focus on the possibility of specific challenges, and it also gives us an indication of where the Danish health care system is developing in a desired direction and where there may be things that need to be taken care of. An increased financial framework does not do so alone. We also need to create a better coherence in our health efforts across municipalities, general practice and specialised hospitals, and then we need to focus on the core task. We need to be open to learning from each other too, to develop better workflows, both for the benefit of patients, but also for employees, to use new methods and to ensure that resources are used in the best possible way. That is why it is essential, including in the debates we are taking today, that we keep the focus constantly on the fact that we must not stop. The fact that we must not stall applies when we talk about development in health care and when we talk about the way in which we manage our health care. We have to note that, in some parts of the health system, waste still exists in the form of misoperations, accidental incidents, infections, processes that are unnecessary, unnecessary treatment or studies, and that is not acceptable to patients, but it is not actually acceptable in the context of the use of resources that we have, and that is why we, as politicians and health services, do not have the advice to allow it to continue. There we need to have a stronger focus. We need to avoid waste, we need to focus more on quality and patient safety and what gives value to the patient, among other things. Therefore, quality and patient safety will also be included as important parameters in the economic negotiations on the regional economy, which we have also spent some time discussing here at the latest query. It is precisely to ensure that we continue to have a strong healthcare system in Denmark, a strong healthcare system, which is a pillar of our welfare society, and so as a patient you can be sure to receive good care wherever you live. I look forward to today's debate, and I look forward to future cooperation in developing our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203134344	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the debate. First of all, it is the rapporteur of the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blix, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203134402	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health for the answer which reassures me that we are still working away to get the health care that we have all wanted and have been talking about for many years. Because if there is something that has been a hot topic in the last few years, it is precisely our health care system. Now I have been a health rapporteur for many years now, so there have been a number of different health ministers and there will also be more and changing governments, and they have all said: beds are over on the halls. It is now the end of inequality in health. Now we need a world-class healthcare system. That's a lot of good words. We have also spent more money on the area than ever before in the last few years, but we also see an increase in bustle out there. We see more elderly people, we see more who, fortunately, we can save, but who so many times need more help. We're hearing of a lot of busy work in several departments. As I explained in my explanatory statement, we have long heard about the birthways, but many other areas have also had difficulty, but have not had quite the same focus. At Køge Hospital the nurses told them that they had to seder the patients, i.e. supermedics with dull medications, because of the hurry. At the Randers Hospital, nurses are so busy that they have to postpone necessary tasks on a daily basis such as prescribing medicines and monitoring sick patients. It shows a report from the Labour Inspectorate. The nurses state that it is typically monitoring and medically prescribed monitoring that is postponed or performed with a longer time interval than prescribed and that this is done daily. For example, there were 61 patients at the Labour Inspectorate's visit in April in a department with room for 33. Yes, in general, the Factory Inspectorate came with 37 orders to hospitals across the country for large amounts of work, and that is just not good enough. I hope we see the effects of the money we have allocated to a safe patient flow for patients in safe hands, to great focus on medical patients, but I am impatient. Yes, it is the responsibility of the regions, but we must also look at what conditions we are giving them. As we mentioned in connection with the Enhedslisten's question, we need to look at what steering tools will be needed in the future. We do not believe that a 2-percent efficiency requirement is the right solution for the future. We would like to find some other management tools, which is why we naturally also hope that the Minister for Health will listen to the professionals who say that the time has come to look at how to ensure quality. And here, of course, we believe that it should be of benefit to everyone. Last year we had a great deal of money allocated to the cancer area, and we also want to give priority to this area in the Danish People's Party. At the same time, however, we must say that I took the oath of the former Minister of Health that it would not affect other departments in the hospitals. And that's what the Minister of Health said it wouldn't do. But unfortunately, we just often hear from patients who can tell that there is a really big difference between whether it is in a cancer ward or whether they bring a child with cystic fibrosis in another department. As a mother of an incurable sick boy said: I always feel more sorry for children with cancer than for my child. I am very pleased that children with cancer receive such good treatment, as well as that they receive a lot of things from volunteers, but I also want us to do so for the other children who have incurable diseases and no matter what terrible diagnosis they have. We must therefore pay the same attention to other groups of diagnosis. The regions must ensure that there is the same analysis and treatment for all groups, and the organisations must ensure that the benefits they have are distributed to children in hospitals. I think it's heartbreaking to hear about children with other diseases who have to watch when gifts are given to the cancer ward. So there is a lot that we need to be aware of, and the Prime Minister must ensure that money for health care is secured when the Prime Minister thinks that this is the core of our welfare and therefore must be given priority. I'd like to ask the Minister of Health to stop the Prime Minister from doing that. So no matter what diagnosis you have or where in the country you live, we must ensure that we can provide the optimal treatment. I will then read out a proposal for adoption, which we are a wide range of parties behind it: the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Radical and the Conservative People's Party: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there are still areas where there is geographical inequality in health. Parliament therefore awaits progress report on the national objectives for the spring, which follows the state of health care and the development of geographical inequality. However, the Folketing considers that the condition in the hospital system is generally good with falling waiting times, increasing survival for cancer and high patient satisfaction, but efforts must continue to be strengthened. The Danish Parliament thus notes that there are still places in the country where great challenges are experienced with busyness in the individual departments, which increases the risk of errors. The Danish Parliament stresses that the regions are responsible for ensuring a priority that reflects actual needs, so that it is possible to comply with the Danish Health Authority's guidelines in, for example, the field of food, cancer and the heart. The Danish Parliament expects the Minister to follow closely how the regions use the funds allocated by the Danish Parliament to improve the quality and patient safety of health care in general. • V 34).
ParlaMint-DK_20170203135015	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we go further and yes, of course that is part of the debate. Then we move on to Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203135026	Thank you very much. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising this question debate today. Now that we are talking about it, there is nothing that is almost more important for Danes than health care, and so let us have a very good and constructive discussion and debate on this. Look, what kind of health care do we have today? We have a health service to which there is free and equal access. In fact, there is also a great deal of satisfaction among patients and citizens with our health services. We do have quite a modern health service because we are constantly good at making dynamic changes. We have a health service in which all those who work in the health care system try every day to do so in the best possible way, that is. We focus on quality. We also have a healthcare system where we constantly try to set standards according to what is the best knowledge, what has the best evidence. We also have a health service that is developing in a direction where everything is becoming more and more complicated and specialized, and we have a health service that we cannot drive forward at all, as we would like, here from the Folketing, if the trust between patient and health care is not constantly very high. Who's in charge of our health care? We are doing this very much here from the Parliamentary Chamber, because the whole part of the hospital system itself is located in the regions, and so we are setting the financial framework for what the regions are supposed to do out there. Then it is up to the regions to ensure that capacity and professionalism, but also the buildings and equipment, are modern and up-to-date. How is our healthcare system supposed to act on disease? Yes, as I say, there is free and equal access, which means that everyone must be able to enter, no matter what disease they have. And what kind of diseases do the Danes have? Yes, unfortunately a lot of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, a lot of diseases that are triggered by the way we live our lives. And here, in fact, I think we have an ethical dilemma which I think we should put much higher on the agenda politically. In any case, we want to do so by the Social Democrats. And that is exactly to what extent are we working to reduce the development of disease in Denmark? To what extent are we working preventively and health-promoting? As I said, I think that is an ethical dilemma, because we are not doing what we know we should be doing here. This is also due to the fact that social inequality and demographic inequality, which are also covered by the question, are actually increasing. The social inequality between the richest and best educated, the poorest and those with the shortest education increases in Denmark. It's not sustainable at all. It doesn't fit a country like ours at all, that's how it is. And then, of course, we are a welfare state, and welfare arises in the interaction between public employees and citizens, where citizens meet public health care, for example. Here we must also say that the way in which the citizen meets the health care system is a completely different way today than it was just a few years ago. Short admissions, perhaps no admissions, outpatient treatments. That is good, it is true It is also respectful in relation to the time of the citizen and the patient, and it will be a way that we will also have to change in the future, just as our health services will also have to bear the stamp of telemedical solutions, and it must also be possible in a country such as ours, which is so rich that patients get the benefits, also because, as the questioners say here today, there is a geographical inequality. Telecommunications solutions can also come in here as something that helps to make our health services more equal and more modern. What this question is about today is also the working environment. How is the working environment in the health care that I commend and say is so good? In many places it is not very good and it is a challenge. We have put the food outlets first in an attempt to try to use the feeding routes as an example of how conditions are around the health system. From the Socialist side, I must also raise a concern today about the way in which we allocate resources. How do we get resources for our health care in the future? With the government we have in Denmark today, I am really concerned, because the projection they want to make from public consumption is only half of what the population's development, ageing, patient and disease development require. We have had a discussion on what the governance mechanisms should be like in the future. We in the Socialist Group want them to build on quality and to make modern efforts. We removed the Danish quality model, the other one has been replaced. I would like to conclude by simply saying that there are some places where we need to be concerned, and that we need to be in relation to what we are running for, which working environment is basic to the employees, and then I would say that prevention and health promotion must be put higher on the agenda here in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203135621	Thank you, sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203135631	First of all, I would like to acknowledge that DF raises today's debate on the state of the hospital system. After all, it is no secret that there has been particular focus on the maternity wards in the last year. For whatever reason you approach or come into contact with the Danish healthcare system, it should be safe to be a patient. We in the Left have always given high priority to the health of the Danes. This was the case before the elections, and so it will be in the future. Last year alone, together with DF, we lifted the health service by 2.4 billion. kr., and that's a significant boost. Part of the funds, 50 million. kr. Every year to be exact, the maternity wards were earmarked. Does this mean that we have solved all the challenges? No, because we must continue to listen to the staff when they repeatedly point to busyness and a stressful everyday life. And I look forward to the mapping of the birth area initiated by the regions and to what answers such a survey gives and what questions it raises. On the Left side, we have noted that the earmarked funds have been used to a large extent to ensure more midwifery capacity, and I am sure that the regions have carefully considered how the extra funds are best invested. The President of the Midwives, Lillian Bondo, wrote last year in a chronicle in Politiken: Should we bet on more of the same thing, or should we think about the svangreamsorgen? I would urge you to do so at the end. It is an exciting thought, especially in view of the fact that the Danish Parliament's Committee on Health and the Elderly also hosted a hearing on the state of the Danish maternity wards shortly before Christmas. Here it was among other things. noted that nine out of ten women have a good birth experience, and it is a fine indicator of the temperature, if you may say so, on the svangroom song, which we can describe as healthy and far from being as overheated as the debate sometimes gives the impression. And I was sincerely pleased with the diversity that marked the hearing with the participation of both private and public employees with experience ranging from private homebirths in quiet surroundings to a more institutionalised basis of experience. Because we have to listen to them all, and we can learn something, no matter where in the swinging song you have your daily walk, and perhaps, as Bondo suggested, we need to rethink part of the swinggroom song. But for the sake of good order, let me make it clear that there is no productivity requirement of 2%. targeted giving birth. To put it briefly, the regions have a responsibility to prioritise, so that developments and actual needs are reflected locally. Everyone can then say that a birth takes the time a birth takes, and the requirement of productivity as such is not targeted at a single department or area, but is a more general requirement on which the regions have fortunately been good at delivering, and in fact, on average, over several years they have delivered more than the agreed 2%. For us in the Left, it is crucial that the Danish health service provides high quality treatment, no matter where in the country you live, how heavy the wallet is, or what a postal code you have. We have created a focus on patients' health care and have strengthened patients' rights, just as we have an ambition that we should have equalised regional differences. The medical coverage committee is a good example of us putting action behind words. Now we have the recommendations and the time has come for us to pull the work clothes. Last week, together, we launched the new National Dementia Action Plan, and this is an important move, because we are becoming more and more older. And for us in the Left, it is essential that we take due care and address some of the challenges that await us around the corner. When, with the cancer plan IV, we put the patient at the centre with a patient-responsible doctor, when we want to get older medical patients away from cold hospital halls and into warm rooms, and when we want to turn the ship in a new direction with eight national targets and related indicators, it is all an indication that we are on the patients' side. And I am convinced that if we really have to move into the Danish healthcare system and ensure a good framework for both patients and employees, it is crucial that we get the whole palette in play. Municipalities, regions and general practice have the key to the lock that, when the code is broken, we can use to lift the health care in a direction where interdisciplinaryity is more the rule than the exception and where the focus is much more on what creates value for the patient. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are backing the proposal for adoption which the DF's rapporteur read aloud earlier.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203140126	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. We move on to the next rapporteur, Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203140136	Thank you. After all, this is a question that gives us the opportunity to discuss the state of health care once again. It is a good thing that we have one day today to do so, because it is really a major discussion. And I very much appreciate the fact that the Danish People's Party has tabled this question today, and I would also like to thank you for it. I nevertheless think it is a little bit fresh when I hear the proposal for the adoption by the large majority of parties in which the state of health care is described as generally good. I can sometimes wonder whether it is the same health care that we are talking about, and it should not be understood that I have a wish, or that we in the Enhedslist have a desire to talk the Danish health service down; it is just a question of recognising what the situation is, as some of the previous rapporteurs have said: that there are areas where health care is really pressured and so much challenged. It is, of course, the case that the health professional organizations are trying to yell at us. We hear nurses say that the limit for cuts in health care has been reached, that is to say that we have reached a point where the working environment is worn out and where more than half of all nurses report that the possibility of solving their core tasks at a professionally sound level is always or almost always under pressure. Everyday life in hospitals today is marked by resignations and by nurses and doctors who have to register with stress and patient safety is under pressure. In several places, Danish Nursing Council calls the situation ethically reckless. I think it is important, when we hear these reports, to say that we do not have a health service that does not work, but that it is a matter of the health professionals pointing out, because of their high professional skills, that they are so pressured on their professional skills. In December we discussed, as others have also mentioned, the head doctor of the National Hospital's maternity department Morten Hedegaard's resignation, and it also emerged that the svangroomsorgen is characterized by the fact that doctors and midwives do not believe that they can do their work properly. We have heard the statistical message that there are more midwives and fewer birthing mothers in return we have also heard the parties involved explain how the work has become more and more complex, just as we have heard senior doctors and midwives explain that they have not experienced a year in which they should not save. In particular, I think it may be worrying when the report from the midwives is also that more and more midwives are moving away from the maternity wards where their core tasks lie, because they are simply too pressured on time and on their professional skills. The proposal for adoption today also calls for the regions to be subject to quality and efficiency requirements. We are a little bit puzzled about that. We believe that it is really time for the Folketing to take real responsibility for the situation that the regions are also facing today. For the regions cannot continue to carry out the task of creating a well-functioning healthcare system as long as we keep them in a steering straitjacket from here. The Presidents of the regions themselves have had a joint statement that they want to get rid of the 2-percent productivity requirement because it hampers them in creating the quality that we would like to have for our citizens. The wish today could therefore be that we shared in listening to all the people who work hard every day to create quality and better health. They are trying to tell us that their daily lives are too busy, and from the FOA over the Medical Association to the regions they all point out that one way forward is to remove the productivity requirement. We feel we owe it to them to listen to this, that is, when they try to shout us up. And we were therefore hoping that, in agreement, we could stand together to remove the productivity requirement, but that is probably a pious but unrealistic wish in the light of the previous debate. However, it should not prevent us from presenting the following on behalf of EL and ALT: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there are areas where there is geographical inequality in health. Parliament therefore awaits the progress report on the national objectives for the spring, which follows the state of health care and the development of geographical inequality. The Danish Parliament notes that there are major challenges facing the health care sector in general, and it is worrying that the largest health professional organisations in the country's hospitals consider that the possibility of solving their core tasks at a professionally sound level is always or often under pressure. The Danish Parliament recognises that every day health professionals make a great effort to create quality for citizens. The Danish Parliament takes note of the concerns of health professionals and requires the government to remove the 2-pct-productivity requirement without financial compensation from the 2018 economic agreement between the government and Danske Regions and to enter into negotiations with Danske Regions as well as the health professional organisations to develop a new health management tool. • V 35).
ParlaMint-DK_20170203140638	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the further debate. But there is no brief comment to Mr. Peder Hvelplund. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203140653	Thank you. At least one thing is certain, and that is that employees should not run faster, because they already run too fast, and they do so primarily because of increased bureaucracy, some workflows that can be made smarter, and detailed process management etc. That's not good enough, and we're gonna change that. The Liberal Alliance has a strong focus on better quality for patients and better working conditions for employees. In fact, we went to the polls to give priority to health care. Together with the Left, DF and Conservatives, we wrote a chronicle in Berlingske with six concrete promises, and we have delivered on all of them. However, we must continue to make the best possible use of resources. We have to, among other things. do by showing confidence in the employees so that they can have the time and opportunity to provide a good, human and professional service that provides security and security for the patients. Control and registration are necessary, but all unnecessary controls must be cut away, it steals time from skilled employees. For example: a study by the Chief Medical Association shows that doctors work for more and more hours a week, yet they spend less and less time on patients. And when you hear about the situation that some women are experiencing in a maternity ward, we must take it very seriously. Here at Christiansborg we must ensure that the conditions are in place for the regions to be able to fulfil their task and their responsibilities. That is why we need to find out where the problems arise. For despite the addition of 50 million. kr. Every year, earmarked for the maternity wards, there is still too much busy in some places. However, it should be noted that it is only in some places. That is why we may be able to learn from the places where things are going well, and that is generally one thing that we need to be much better at: learning from the regions, hospitals and departments, etc. that are doing well. We need to improve knowledge sharing and knowledge sharing is not only relevant within the public system. We can also learn from private suppliers who, in many cases, can provide the same services at lower prices without compromising on quality. Finally, we must remember that nine out of ten women have a good birth experience, but it should not be a sleeping pillow. We need to look at how the tenth woman can also have a good experience. Bringing a child to the world must take place in a secure environment with staff who have time and profits. More and more money is also being spent. From 2014 to 2016, more money has been spent specifically at Rigshospitalet. date of birth from 22.352 kr. in 2014 to 24,783 kr. in 2016, in real terms well to mark; more money has also been spent on staff. In general, more money has also been spent on the country. More doctors and more nurses are employed, and the number of midwives has increased by 50%. from approx. 1,000 to 1,500 from 2001 to 2015, while the birth rate decreased from approx. 65,000 to approx. 58,000. In the period from 2001 to 2015, a total of 16,000 more people were employed in Danish hospitals. And in Denmark we have both several nurses and doctors per year. resident than they have in Sweden. We also have more hospital beds in Denmark than they do in Sweden. But all of these efforts, which I have just mentioned, have also brought about a very good and positive development, with better treatments and shorter waiting lists, and that is welcome, but that does not mean that it cannot and must not bother to improve, and that is why we must follow developments closely and follow how the funds are used.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141114	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141128	The country's health professionals have pointed out that there are no longer any resources to exercise the quality they want in their daily lives and in their core task, and they have pointed out that quality requirements have been replaced by quantity requirements. We have heard from Morten Hedegaard, the outgoing obstetrician and Clinic Manager at Rigshospitalet's birthday, about a day-to-day work pressure and stress, where quality has had to be secondary to the competent employees. As has also been mentioned earlier today, the five presidents of the regions have supported it by pointing out that further pace among employees is no longer essential to solving the problems of the hospital system. They have pointed out how the funds allocated simply no longer suffice to meet the professional pride of the employees and the needs of the patients. We have heard from employees' associations in the country's hospitals that they have sent a call for help to Christiansborg. • A criticism that is primarily a consequence of the outdated productivity requirement that we have debated earlier today. That is why we must note that, as politicians, we bear a great deal of the blame. Over the last 10 years, the hospital has been imposed on productivity requirements, which mean that there is now nothing more to cut than employees' time, as Lillian Bondo, chairman of the midwife association, has said. These are demands which also make the important preventive work, for example. in the field of birth, cut away. We in the Alternative therefore believe that it is time to act. We trust the professionalism of our employees. We are confident that when we are asked for help, we can rely on it to be taken seriously. That is why we believe that it is time to focus on quality for employees and quality for citizens. All in all, we believe that we should listen to professionals and listen to their concerns and build up a system that takes account of their professional judgements. As I have mentioned in the previous debate, we have reached the limit of how pressure we think we can allow the health system to be. We believe that this productivity requirement and what I have called a productivity regime must end now and that we must restore confidence in the workforce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141404	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments here either, so we move on to Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141414	The Danish People's Party asks about the core of the welfare society, namely the hospital service. For me, as a radical, the core of the welfare society is also our day-care institutions, schools and education, because that is where we all offer equal opportunities. And there will be the answer: it looks a little sluggish as long as the government fails to prioritize day care institutions and cuts in all our educations. And education and health are linked. We have an unacceptable inequality in health in Denmark. People with the least education live shorter and are more ill and become more worn out. We are all talking about this in here, but right now there is also a majority in the Folketing who are reluctant to take the preventive initiatives that need to be taken. When it is not connected in the maternity wards, it is about the economy that we have just discussed, but it is also about women getting older and thicker and being sicker. Therefore, it can be said that more money must be sent to the maternity wards. I think that's what it's gonna be. But we must also ask ourselves whether we are doing enough to prevent, for example. prevent obesity. I would like to use this debate to express my thanks again for the hearing that we had on maternity leave. I actually thought it was a really, really good day. I got smarter myself, and I think we should keep each other a little in our ears, compared to that we should do a lot more. For me, this discussion is linked to the discussion before on how we manage and manage health care in a wise way. In fact, I also think that here is a parallel to the educational world, where we are in the grotesque situation, that if you research, it counts, but if you're just a really good teacher, then it doesn't really count. In the same way, I also think that we have a discussion for the good of health about how we manage and manage in a way where personal and presence and time are allowed to be weighted higher. Because it's quite grotesque when we hear from midwives that they have to have double shifts because nobody came to replace them, that they can't eat, that they can't go to the bathroom. It is, of course, both a question of the overall framework, but it is also a question of what it is like, how health care is managed, and then it is a question of management. That is why I hope that we can have a comprehensive discussion on how we can not only contribute to the governance of the framework, but also ensure good governance around it. And the Radical Left would like to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141715	Thank you to Mrs Lotte Rod. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141726	Thank you for the question and thank you for the Minister's statement. I do not want to say much more about it, as most things have already been said, perhaps in fact, in the previous debate. That is why I would just like to make a few comments on the draft adoption by Mrs Liselott Blixt. Under no circumstances will the SF vote in favour of the proposal because it does not address at all the issue raised by Mrs Liselott Blixt himself in the question, namely the state of health and the lack of resources in health care. The proposal for adoption merely refers to the fact that the regions must use the funds allocated to improving quality and patient safety. The text is therefore not in any way related to the serious problems that have been faced by the two-percent efficiency requirements of the last many years. now seriously inflicts on patients and employees in the health care system. Then I would like to say to Mrs Liselott Blixt that it is not only in the maternity wards of the Rigshospitalet, it is mad. In the last few months, employees have continuously complained about the working environment in several hospitals in all five regions. Let me just mention the staff in the maternity wards in Aarhus and Odense, the staff in the psychiatry in Risskov, where the staff are afraid to go to work, and the overcrowding in the medical departments in Holbæk and Aalborg, where both patients and staff are put under pressure. In the late autumn, it emerged that the patients at Køge Hospital had been overmed in order for the staff to cope with the pressure of work. These are the problems we will have to deal with in the future and, unfortunately, I do not think that this is the case at all in Mrs Liselott Blixt's draft text for adoption. It will be a usual region-bashing on the part of the Danish People's Party, and we cannot vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141918	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203141937	Conservatives are pleased that we generally have a hospital service with falling waiting times, increasing survival for cancer patients and high patient satisfaction, and that we have some skilled and committed employees in the country's hospitals, who every day do their best to provide a safe and good treatment. In the autumn of 2016, Clinic Chief Morten Hedegaard resigned from his position at the Rigshospitalet, in one of the country's largest maternity wards, because of too few hands. It was a decision that made an impression and subsequently a debate about the urgency of the country's maternity departments has been held, which I have followed with interest. As part of the general health boost of 2.4 billion. kr. The 2016 Finance Act earmarked 50 million. kr. annual to a strengthened effort in the hospital's maternity wards. Despite the earmarked funds for the strengthened efforts in the maternity wards, we can see that there is still a lot of work to be done in some maternity wards. We must, of course, listen to and acknowledge this, because it must be safe and safe to feed in our maternity wards, and staff must thrive and have proper working conditions so that the risk of errors is minimized. The regions are responsible for taking local development into account, within the overall framework of health, and ensuring priorities reflecting actual needs. We therefore expect the Minister to follow closely developments in this area and have a discussion with the regions on how they use the funds allocated to improve the quality and patient safety of health care. We, the Conservatives, will continue to follow closely the state of health, and we are happy to look forward to the progress report on the national targets that will come in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142141	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we are through the rapporteur's line, and then it is the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142153	I'll be brief. In my opening speech, I tried to sum up some of what I think is important that we work together to further develop our health services in the coming years. I also think that the debate reflects the mutual interest here that we share, including across parties, now focus on those places where there are problems, but at the same time also recognise and ensure peace of mind in many areas of our health care, where, fortunately, we see great progress and where we experience that staff deliver a good quality for our patients every day • that we also remember to recognise their efforts. Because it also helps to ensure that we can develop our healthcare system • that we not only focus on those departments where there may be a need for us to address specific issues, but that we also basically look at the places where our healthcare system is functioning and where, fortunately, there is good development for the benefit of our patients. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for putting the subject of the question to debate. I think it is appropriate that we not only take the debate in committee and in the ministry, but also take some of the major debates and debates in principle on the development of our health services in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142306	There are a few brief comments. First, it's from Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142308	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and for wanting to focus on these matters. The reason why I am raising the question is that it is cancer treatment, dementia treatment, heart treatment or whatever it is that we are lifting in here, while some of the small groups often feel crowded or feel like those who do not get quite the same attention. That is why, of course, I would like to ask the Minister whether, and when the Minister does not do so before, just when the Minister comes back and whoever replaces the Minister will help to focus attention on the groups that feel compelled. We have talked about this in the past, and that is why I think it is important to have a public debate on it, including that those children who have another incurable disease should be helped in the same way as those who have a disease that is spoken about more openly and collect to, and so on. These are some of the things I would like to hear if the Minister will still be working on.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142407	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142408	Thank you for the question. I would very much like to do so and I very much agree with the rapporteur that it is important that we do not create a hierarchy of diagnoses in Denmark, so we forget and overlook some patient groups. It is important that there is a broad focus on developing our healthcare system. Now there has been a lot of debate on the field of birth; I have taken part in that debate, and it is not only because I am about to go on maternity leave, but because we need to focus on the svangroomsorgen and the challenges that are there. But I fully agree with the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party that there are also some areas that sometimes get a little squeezed in the debate. And as a minister, I have a duty to keep both patient rights and developments in those areas in focus, and I would like to acknowledge that is a joint task.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142454	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142455	I'm really glad to hear that. Then I would like to take this opportunity to thank the other rapporteurs for the debate. I hope that the Minister is doing very well and that the Minister will return quickly so that we can fight together in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142512	There was no comment on that. Then there is one final remark from Mr. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142517	Thank you. I noticed that in the Minister's opening speech, the Minister said that we must avoid waste in our health services. Waste is at all something that we human beings and, at least, those of us who bear the responsibility for tax dollars, must do everything possible to avoid. I had hoped that the Minister had talked a little about prevention and health promotion, just a little about the fact that we should do something more to reduce disease development in Denmark. We've got a hospital service that takes care of disease. But for the individual, for the quality of life, for us as a society, it must be much better and associated with common sense that we are trying to reduce disease development. On the basis of the government of the Left Government, I looked for what the government wanted in the field of prevention. It didn't want anything. I am now looking for the intentions of the three-party government in the field of prevention and health promotion. There's nothing there either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142620	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142623	There is a great deal of it. I fully agree with the Socialist rapporteur that it is important to focus on prevention. However, prevention is broader than what is happening in the field of health. Prevention is also basically healthy, good values, a good relationship with both diet and exercise, from a very small age. That is why it is also part of the newly revised pedagogical curricula, which are part of our joint agreements in the field of education, both in primary and upper secondary education, with a view to supporting prevention. This is part of our sports policy to ensure that more Danes become active in e.g.. sports clubs, just as we have a prevention effort when it comes to combating smoking, when it comes to fighting the Nordic record, Denmark unfortunately has in drinking too much alcohol. So this is an area which this government is giving priority and which we want to lift. Of course it matters. If you look at the government programme, you see that there is a direct in-service work on diet and the importance it has for healthy lifestyles and prevention. And I would like to take part in the dialogue beyond what we have the opportunity to do here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142733	Sir. Flemming Møller Mortensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142735	I'm glad to hear that. However, I have to say that there is a lack of initiatives in relation to a political coinage. Most recently, we have seen that the Left Government would do well to regulate smoking in vocational schools. I would have looked forward to this very much, because smoking is and will be the biggest health problem we have in Denmark. It triggers most illness, most deaths. A new Tripartite Government will not touch that at all. That is why I have to say that one thing is words, another is action and there is no action behind it. But it could come.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142812	Thank you. Then it's the minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142814	There is much action behind it when we talk about smoking prevention campaigns, when we talk about partnerships, and when we look at whether there are places where the framework can be better. The issue specifically concerns vocational training, and we have said that we do not believe that this should be done at national level, through legislation. We believe that it is important for the individual institution to shoulder its responsibilities. What we can see today is that a large number of vocational training and adult education centres have smoking policies, fortunately, which clearly state that they are not allowed to smoke in the institutions concerned. We are also happy to take that dialogue with the institutions. Of course, this is also about prevention.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142853	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is over. The vote on the proposed amendments will take place on Tuesday, 7 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142905	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday, 7 October 2017. For the reasons given by the rapporteur for the questioners, Mrs Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203142924	Thank you. We've been focusing a lot on psychiatry in recent years. Unfortunately, however, we are constantly seeing an increase in the number of people with psychiatric diagnosis. Often we get enquiries from citizens who cannot be hospitalized or discharged prematurely. Only yesterday I received a request about exactly that: A father of a young girl who is mentally ill tells that they are coming to the psychiatric emergency room on a Friday night, but is told that she can choose between being hospitalized with the adults or going home, because the children's department has closed this weekend. So I'm thinking, is that what we're offering our kids and kids? Do you think it's best that the individual isn't hospitalized? Since the police reform came into force in 2007, the number of forced admissions carried out with the help of the police has increased by 61.5%. From 2.567 to 4.145 forced admissions last year. This shows access to the police record system. This corresponds to an average of 11 forced admissions carried out every single day throughout 2015. Chiefs and the organization SIND believe that this is a consequence of too many laid-out beds. Knud Kristensen from SIND says: We find that more and more people turn voluntarily and are rejected because they are not sick enough. Then they are left to themselves and end up getting so sick that they must be forced into custody with the help of the police, so it is a vicious circle that we see. These are just two reasons why we in the Danish People's Party believe that a question debate in this area is important. I look forward to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203143134	Then I give the floor to the Minister for Health for Response.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203143144	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party for the explanatory statement and for asking the question, which, overall, is about how we ensure that mentally ill people receive the necessary hospitalization and treatment and how we politically ensure that there is enough focus on it. The rapporteur of the Danish People's Party himself brings up children's psychiatry. There is no doubt that this is an area that I believe concerns us all and that we need to focus not only on today's debate but also on the future. This reflects to a large extent the common rate-pool agreement we made last year. I should like to return to that point. This is an extremely important and topical subject that we must discuss. It is about the forced admissions that we are unfortunately seeing more of, it is about the fact that there are too many hospitalizations, it is about the fact that we hear about patients being discharged before they find that the treatment has been completed, and it is about the situation that we have unfortunately been described by some professional environments, with the fact that it is the capacity and not a specific medical assessment that determines whether a patient is hospitalised or discharged. It is clear that this is not acceptable, because it must be a medical assessment whether a patient needs hospitalisation or needs discharge. We, as rural politicians, also have a responsibility for this area, although it is the regions that have operational responsibility and the regions that run health care on a day-to-day basis. We must also ensure that the regions are able to carry out those tasks, to make sound decisions in the field of psychiatry, so that doctors and other health professionals can make their professional decisions precisely on the basis of their professional skills and not on the basis of other considerations. It is a responsibility that we have here in the Folketing together. It is, in fact, also a responsibility that I see we have taken on. Although there may be several things on which we disagree, I find that we have been able to agree quite quickly over recent years that for too many years psychiatry has not received the attention and priority that was needed. Nor has it received the same attention as for example. The somatics. Fortunately, this has changed. That was necessary too. I very much see the political will today to change the situation in psychiatry. This also means that in the pool we allocated 2.2 billion. kr. to the regions directly to the psychiatry with the 2015-2018 Rate Pool Agreement. You have also had a discussion with the former minister about a follow-up on whether the money has gone to what had been agreed, like separate funds, 40 million. kr. annually, for more beds are earmarked with the rate pool 2012-2015. And with the latest agreement, these funds have been made permanent. Studies have also been carried out on user-controlled beds and a number of other initiatives have been taken. It has also been decided in the pool of rates that a new model of follow-up should be drawn up for the use of funds by the regions. This is especially true when we look at the number of beds. We need to have a look at why the number that was at least expected when the 40 million has been set aside has not been established. kr. annual. According to Danske Regioner's figures for the period 2007-2016, the number of beds in psychiatry has decreased by 11.6%. From 3,287 in 2007 to 2,905 beds in 2016. I also think it is important to highlight the uniform cross-health assessment and treatment rights that were introduced in 2014 and which also mean that psychiatric patients have the same rights as somatic patients. It is also about equality, and this equality is also reflected in the new autumn investigation and treatment rights, which ensure that patients have the right to be informed and treated in private hospitals if the public authorities do not have sufficient capacity. It is about equality when we talk about patients' rights, across our entire healthcare system. From the political point of view, we have signalled that we see somatics and psychiatry as equals, and we have tried to compensate for some of the backlog that we must recognise there has been in the field of psychiatry. But there are also still places where we are going to work, and as a representative of the government, I can say that we do not want to stop here. That is why we have just decided to carry out a control review of psychiatry. A working group has been set up that expects to complete its work here in the autumn of 2017, with among others. Danish Regions, and the working group will make concrete recommendations on how the overall management of psychiatry can be improved based on transparency and management of activity, quality and resource use in psychiatry. I will come back to that. In addition, the gamble pool parties and the former government, the Left Government, have jointly decided to set up completely new specialized social psychiatry departments, which will be ready in 2018. It is clear that this is a discussion that we will have in detail with the social rapporteurs. I think it is important to bear in mind that the purpose of the new departments is to provide the group of citizens who today often have everything, too many admissions and also sometimes experience almost becoming swing door patients with interrupted treatment courses, much better and more coherent treatment courses than what is the case today. Autumn's negotiations in the movement pool circle gave rise to new programme programmes in the field of children and young people and focus on early action towards particularly vulnerable families. The programmes must, of course, include: support coherent cross-sectoral and management processes when we talk about children and young people with mental challenges. It is important that we start to get this whole focus, because there are a lot of people, not least when we talk about children and young people who have experienced that they have actually had to navigate between administrations, between actors, rather than being the ones that are at the centre. I have high expectations of the progress programmes and the work we are now going to do together, in order to create better negotiating processes and ensure more targeted admissions where this target group is needed, but most of all ensure that we get such early action that hopefully we can avoid some of these children and young people getting there that their mental problems are developing as much as they are unfortunately allowed to do today. In addition, the early response project should strengthen health care efforts towards vulnerable and vulnerable children and families and help ensure a better transition between treatment psychiatry and municipal efforts. We know that early efforts can mean a lot to the later development of mental disorders. I also look forward to the close and coherent health services committee making their recommendations, because I also have a clear expectation that they will not only relate to the somatic part but that they will also relate to the context and good patient progress when we talk about the psychiatry area. Here too, we must ensure that their recommendations are followed up, because unfortunately we hear that this is a challenge. We are not just hearing what we know from the actors in this area, that in some places it is a challenge that there is no precise link between municipal action and regional action. We also know that in some regions, not to say in many places, there are major challenges in recruiting psychiatrists, which can make it more difficult to offer sufficient efforts to the target group. A strengthened cross-sectoral context, better use of health professionals • This applies both to the competences of psychologists, but also to nurses in places where psychiatrists and doctors specialising in the field can not be recruited, is one of the things we need to work on to deal with some of the specific recruitment problems that exist. The government, in cooperation with the regions, has set up a working group to look at how to ensure better management of the whole psychiatry area. It's necessary. It is not just about the individual places where we experience problems. It is also about setting the framework for the future development of psychiatry over the coming years, so that we do not get there, that we do not focus on where things are going well and where things are going less well, so that we learn from each other in this way. If we look at psychiatry today, we see that the state has not defined the same kind of governance as with somatics. There can be both the advantages and the disadvantages of this. We should not, of course, transfer some of the child diseases we have talked about in the past, but we also need to look overall at how to achieve greater uniformity and quality development in psychiatry, and we need to focus better on what gives value to the individual patient. It also makes good sense to get the working group to examine more closely how efforts in this area can be better supported by the structure and incentives of psychiatry. If there is anything we can do from a central point of view, one must of course look at it. It is not just a matter for the regions. It is also a task on which we, as a government, want to have a strong focus, and on which I also hope that we in the Folketing can have a stronger focus. I think that today's proposal for adoption reflects this very much. I expect a great deal from the initiatives we have taken together in this area and from the initiatives we are going to take. It is important that we pick up on the experience we have from experiments and some of the initiatives we have taken. There is also a need to pick up when we talk about developments in psychiatry. I think it is essential to try to pick up some of the things we already know. For example: the State Institute for Public Health has prepared a report as part of the analysis base of the Committee for close and coherent health care, pointing to the experience of a number of cross-cutting projects aimed at improving the coherence of the processes for citizens with mental disorders. The report has some very good points. I think it is important that when we talk about psychiatry, we get better at picking up the things we know work. We need to pick up so that it is not just a single attempt in a single place, but is actually going to be concluded in several places. As I mentioned earlier, we also need to collect the use of the money we have allocated together, so we know that they go to what has been agreed. This is very much an important part of the transparency in the field of psychiatry, so that we can follow the means we allocate so that we know that they really come out and benefit patients and employees. We also allocated joint resources to expand the capacity of psychiatry to more warm hands and more beds. When it comes to warm hands, we can see that we have had quite a large increase in the number of employees. But if we look at the number of beds, we can't see the same thing. Then it is not the case that beds are everything, because fortunately we have also received more outpatient treatments in psychiatry. But at the same time, when we can look at the latest numbers, we have 23 per cent. hospitalizations, then there is something that should make the alarm bells ring, so we dare to discuss the capacity and coherence of the treatment courses in the psychiatry area today. I am very much looking forward to today's debate and further cooperation on how to create more uniformity in psychiatry in the future and how to ensure better progress for patients. There is a political obligation to ensure that psychiatric patients and people with mental disorders receive high-quality treatment in the sense that our healthcare system is there for them when it is needed. We have already taken small steps and have to take several steps. We cannot take tiger jumps, but we must constantly develop our psychiatry area so that we have better quality, so that we have better patient safety, so that we have a better patient turning point, so that we ensure the recruitment of staff to the psychiatry, which ensures a high quality for patients. Fortunately, the Valetists are falling down. More patients are treated and staff are focused on less coercive treatment than in the past. As recently as last week, the media reported that Psychiatric Center Ballerup as the first place in the country has avoided using belt fixings for 100 days. I think that's really nice. We must also remember to recognise the positive stories. It must be part of the story of the strong academic focus of our employee groups in psychiatry. Although I have now said that more development must take place and that, unfortunately, it is not going as fast as one might wish, we should remember to recognise the places where things are fortunately moving forward and where we can see that patients and employees are succeeding in creating good conditions for patients in psychiatry every day. I am also open to concrete and good proposals on how to improve psychiatry, and I therefore hope that the joint proposal for adoption today reflects the fact that this is not an area in which we are going to have polemical discussions, but very much reflects the fact that we can continue the work we have had in recent years in which we have jointly lifted the area. Thank you for the floor and thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203144621	Thank you, Minister. Then it is Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party, who is the rapporteur for the questioners. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203144632	Thank you very much to the Minister for Health. I think it was a very good answer that we are concerned, and many of the points raised by the Minister are, in fact, part of what I have said in my speech, so I do not quite know whether the Minister has been peeking. All too often we see that when psychiatry comes into focus and in the media, it is mainly when something terrible happens. We have witnessed unhappy situations over the past few years, and this has now resulted in a new agreement on new settlements. But the question is, if not everything we do with psychiatry is patching up the patch solution. When I look back at the nine years I've worked with the psychiatry in here at Christiansborg, we've started a lot of things. We have set aside money for new and modern buildings; we have set aside money for several breakthrough projects that have resulted in less coercion; it is for emergency rooms in the municipalities; and it is several measures that should show what the people who have a mental illness and who need help are lacking. It's like a Gordian knot. I remember when we set aside money for a court psychiatric department, we couldn't get staff, and we couldn't use it. Today we also have a department in Slagelse which is not open because they cannot get staff for it. So I keep seeing things bite themselves in the tail. When we dwell on the figures, we can also see that today we have the same number of beds as five years ago, and that we have almost been at the same level in the last 10 years, and that is, even though the number of mentally ill people in need of treatment has increased by 43%. From 2007 to 2014. The answer we receive from various ministers, and as the Minister himself said a little, is that the extension of out-patient investigation and treatment means that we do not need beds. That is what we have heard for many years. But I doubt, especially when we get these inquiries about those who cannot be admitted or who are being discharged prematurely, be it young girls or adult men. I believe that we need to reverse the trend in psychiatry, and right now we need beds and staff. As I said before, there is a lack of staff in some places, and elsewhere it is money for beds, so we have to look at how we can get it into a higher unit. Therefore, I am also glad that you are now looking at it and looking at control tools and what is needed in psychiatry. Hopefully, the new agreement on new settlements will result in 150 places being added to the general psychiatry. At least it's been promised. But we also need to look at how to secure those people who are so difficult and feel best about being hospitalised and that we ensure that they can be hospitalised when they need it and not be discharged until they are ready for it. But there must also be some in the municipalities who can take care of them when they are discharged. The fact is that we do not have a coherent course and a coherent approach when you are affected by a mental illness. The minister also mentioned this. In fact, I do not think we need beds if we are to ensure that we can take care of citizens when they need them, and if we in the municipal community ensure that those children who start to have problems can be taken care of. It can sometimes start to be social problems or other things during school hours. We can see when headspace in some municipalities goes in and helps that they can actually sometimes help the children so that they do not get hospitalized and do not continue a mental illness deroute, where it comes to hospitalizations and printings, and where they are in health care for many years. We can see that it helps some of the adults who are thrown out of the labour market because they have a mental illness, with a handheld effort. So we have proof that there are some things that work. The problem is just how we implement it around, because if we make sure that we take care of the young and the elderly when they get sick in the labour market and go down with stress, they will not reach where they need to be admitted for treatment. That's what we saw in Trieste a few years ago. I keep mentioning Trieste, but that's probably because it made a really big impression on me, because they didn't actually have very many beds. I have talked to the Minister about the fact that when the Minister returns from maternity leave, perhaps he should take a trip to Trieste and see how they are doing down there. So I hope that we can look at everything and that this about looking at control tools, places, etc. also allows us to create a whole new psychiatry plan. It could be nice if we could together in here look at what has worked and get it implemented, and then look at how we could get a really good psychiatry and help those people who are having a hard time. I shall now read out a proposal for adoption. It is supported by the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party, the Left, the Liberal Alliance, the Conservatives and the Radicals. Suggestions for adoption The Danish Parliament takes note of Parliament's desire to support good courses of treatment for people with mental disorders. The Folketing wants to improve its efforts by leading to too short admissions, and the Folketing calls on the government to increase its focus on better admissions, including prevention of re-hospitalisations for people with mental disorders. V 36).
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145259	Thank you. That proposal will be included in the further negotiations during this debate. Then there is a brief comment to Mr. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145309	Thank you. I would like to sign for the rapporteur's speech. There were a lot of things in it that I very much agreed with. After all, the psychiatry is an area in which the Danish People's Party and Enhedslisten actually often have a great deal of agreement, and I would particularly like to sign for the proposal that we establish a new psychiatry action plan. The rapporteur is also right in saying that there are many things we would be able to remedy through better prevention, but I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether the rapporteur does not agree that there is also a need for an urgent boost to the psychiatry and that there will also be a need to move the psychiatry over as flat-rate appropriations under the Finance Act, rather than that it is something that runs over appropriations through the rate pool which is, of course, also financed by the Finance Act.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145404	Here you go, Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145405	We fully agree with the Danish People's Party. Firstly, we want the rate pool to be closed down so that the psychiatry automatically goes over to the Finance Act, so we have actually proposed this several times, and we have also supported the Enhedslisten's proposal when it has wanted to close down the rate pool. Then I would also like to say hurry up and say that we have had a very good cooperation, and I am actually sorry that Mr. Peder Hvelplund is about to finish being a babysitter, because there are many things we agree on in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145435	Sir. Peder Hvelplund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145437	I can then reassure the rapporteur by saying that it is possible for Members to go on leave, but the policy remains. So I am sure that good cooperation will continue afterwards. I am therefore looking forward to seeing whether we could not have the joint task of bringing the psychiatry to the finance law and that we can secure a permanent appropriation through this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145458	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145459	You bet. In any case, we are still working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145505	You get so drunk with all the kindness that you're gonna say "you." The next rapporteur is Mrs Yildiz Akdogan, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145516	Thank you for that, President. I must continue the good dialogue here. First of all, thank you to the Danish People's Party for this question debate. We've heard a lot of stories about a pressured psychiatry. In the last six months alone, there have been stories of a decrease in the number of beds and an increase in the number of patients, an increase in the number of re-hospitals, forced admissions, healthy from today, etc. We have witnessed a psychiatry in which patients do not receive the treatment they need, where they are discharged too quickly and are therefore admitted over and over again. When the entire staff at the Psychiatric Hospital in Risskov says stop, we need to listen. Just before Christmas the chief doctors, nurses, psychologists and social and health assistants sent together an open letter to the Central Jutland Region in which they described that they could no longer vouch for the quality of the treatment and that they considered the conditions to be professionally indefensible. The letter came right after the call from the police regarding the forced admission of patients. Nearly 12 times a day, the police move out to help them commit a patient. The police say that they cannot do the job and that they have neither the skills nor the resources to do the job well enough. Since 2007, the number of forced admissions where the police help has increased by 66 per cent, and during the same period, i.e. from 2007 to 2016, the number of beds has decreased by approx. 11% This corresponds to almost 400 beds. In 2015, almost 1 out of every 4 patients in the psychiatric system were reinstated shortly after the discharge. Yes, the numbers and stories speak for themselves; psychiatry has harsh conditions. But let me make it clear with seven-inch nails that patients must be discharged on the basis of a medical assessment, not on the basis of anything else, and certainly not because there is not enough space or staff. The latest approach to the social psychiatry departments would very much like to provide some capacity in psychiatry, because the function would like to lead to fewer re-hospitations and fewer forced admissions when the staff get some better tools combined with a high level of professionalism. But let me also make it clear that capacity is part of the solution, but not all of it. The best solution, of course, is not to leave patients in hospital forever. Everyone wants to go home to the family, to the network and everyday life that you have, and that also applies to people with mental illnesses. No one gets well from being hospitalized as long as possible, and there is also a need for rehabilitation and recovery. That is why we also need to look elsewhere to improve the conditions of some of the most vulnerable people. A proper relationship between psychiatry and the follow-up efforts is extremely important, the interaction and cooperation between sectors and different professional groups, as the Minister also mentioned, is essential if we are to ensure proper treatment, quality and security for the patient concerned. It is imperative that we get better at ensuring that one hand takes over where the other gets off and that people do not fall between two or more chairs. In this context, I find it worrying that the government does not mention psychiatry with one word in the government base. I hope that this is not a general expression of a downgrade. In the social democracy we want real equality between mental and physical illnesses, and when we look at the backlog in relation to psychiatry, it is important to stick to that priority. However, I also note that there is a broad majority in the Folketing which shows a will and has a desire to lift the psychiatry forward. That is why I am also looking forward to this question debate, where we can discuss both the challenges, but also the possible actions that can be considered in relation to the pressured psychiatry. And on behalf of my colleagues from the Radical Left, I must say that they also support the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145913	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it's Mrs. Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203145920	First of all, I would like to sign for DF's initiative with the question debate here today. A good health service is a health service for all, whether you have a physical illness or a mental illness. For although there is a big difference between a hip fracture and a hash psychosis, the focal point is the same: The Danish healthcare system exists for Danish patients, no matter what suffering you have, and it must and must be the patient who is always at the centre. For us in the Left, it has been essential to ensure the same rights for patients in the somatics as well as in the psychiatry and in 2015 all patients actually received the same right of investigation in 30 days. Together with the pool parties, we have prioritised funds for capacity building, both in physical but also in personnel terms. When I became psychiatry rapporteur in 2011, there were a number of stakeholders around psychiatry who wanted to meet for a cup of coffee. And I invited in shifts, and the first input I received from staff and organizations was that there were no beds in the psychiatry. I believed that until I took part in a debate meeting where I realized that truth also had nuances. For the debate, together with Mrs Liselott Blixt, a large group pointed out that the challenge was not only more beds but also better outpatients. And I think, if I'm to be honest, the truth lies somewhere in between. Since 2011, through the rate pool, we have prioritized funds for several bedrooms, which have since been made permanent and so are now in the Finance Act, just as we have prioritized funds for strengthened outpatient care, which has also been made permanent. This has meant that in recent years we have seen a marked increase in the number of outpatients and shorter admissions. It is in itself gratifying, because it shows that the change in psychiatry that we have wanted from the political point of view is now a reality. But it also raises a number of questions. In recent years, the composition of staff in the psychiatry has changed and the number of beds has also decreased in recent years, so that the question can now rightly be asked whether the staff composition is optimal and whether the right number of beds is available. In fact, we had an ambition in the pool to increase the number of beds. Because it is clear that you are ill and if you require treatment to such an extent that you need to be hospitalized, then bed capacity must be available. In recent years we have seen a marked increase in the number of re-hospitals, and this should be of concern. Since 2009, the rate of rehospitation has increased by approx. 20, and that increase should make us all lift our eyebrows and ask ourselves: Where is it going wrong? I have not answered here, but I have a clear feeling that when we hear again and again about patients being placed between two chairs, it is perhaps in the intersections between the transitions between regions, municipalities and the general practice that we have to find part of the answer and part of the solution. Right now, the Committee on close and coherent health care is working on proposals on how we can strengthen precisely coherent health care and be better at ensuring good transitions, so that fewer people in the future will experience being placed between two chairs or at all feel lost in a large health care system that can be difficult for individuals to navigate, especially when they are in a vulnerable and vulnerable position. I think we should also find some of the answer in the management model for psychiatry that we have chosen. After all, psychiatry is not subject to productivity requirements, as we know from somatics, but is primarily framework-driven. In 2014, the former SR government set up a working group to look at how the control mechanisms in the psychiatry are linked. And only this summer's discussion about what the 2.2 billion. kr., which was prioritized to the psychiatry via the rate pool in the summer of 2014, has been used for, is a dew-fresh example of the need to look at how to achieve greater uniformity in psychiatry with regard to e.g. Monitoring. We must have better opportunities to follow up and take action where the challenges are greatest. In the somatics these years, we have a greater focus on what creates value for the patient, and we should also have that focus in psychiatry. All too often we hear sad stories, and we forget or overlook the good stories. Personally, I was so happy when we read last week that at the Psychiatric Center Ballerup, 100 days had been celebrated without belt fixation, and part of the success is due to an increased focus on play, movement and exercise, just as sick absence, occupational injuries and reports of violence and threats are decreasing. It then gives the Left we can support the proposal for adoption which the DF's rapporteur previously read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203150501	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Peder Hvelplund, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203150507	Thank you. And a big thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the debate here. This is a welcome opportunity to debate the situation in psychiatry. This is an area that is often a little overlooked in the health debate, and it is therefore very good that today we have the opportunity to discuss it. The question today is specifically about the conditions in hospital psychiatry and the possibility of being admitted and of remaining in hospital, if that is what you want. We have recently seen a sharp increase in the search for psychiatry. During the period 2007-2014, the number of patients in the regional psychiatry increased by 43%. At the same time, however, appropriations rose only 17%. There is therefore a huge financial backlog in psychiatric medicine if you compare it with somatics, and this is reflected among other things. in a lack of beds. I fully agree that we can discuss beds as the only solution to the problem; I agree that it is not. However, beds must be seen in the context of the opportunities we have today in social psychiatry and in preventive work. There we can only note that today there is a lack of beds, in relation to how difficult it is to be hospitalized and how difficult it is to remain hospitalized Lately we have experienced it in the form of the distress cry that a group of staff at the Psychiatric Department of Risskov sent to the politicians. They made it quite clear, in fact almost frighteningly clear, that the system out there was breaking completely to the detriment of the staff, to the detriment of the relatives and to the detriment of the patients. The reality is that people with mental illness do not receive the treatment they should be able to expect. It is citizens who are in an extremely vulnerable situation. We offer them sometimes relationships we would never dream of offering anywhere else in the hospital. The number of re-hospitals is increasing. We are experiencing what is called Friday printing, where the least sick are printed out for the weekend to ensure room for new and acute admissions, whether or not the citizens think they are ready to be discharged, and whether or not the health professionals consider it to be safe. In principle, it should be the case that there was a duty of reception in psychiatric departments, where it was only the health-care decisions that made it possible to be admitted. But it is clear that if we are to do so, resources will also have to be taken into account. Because hospitalization is not a desirable situation. I don't think anyone's dreaming of being admitted to a psychiatric ward. It is a situation one only gets into when it is the case that there is really a need for help to regain control of one's life. On the other hand, the vast majority also want to be discharged as soon as they have the opportunity, and as soon as they are able to fend for themselves. That is also why it is totally unreasonable that it is so difficult to be admitted and that it is so difficult to maintain the possibility of staying in hospital. Among other things: That is why we have seen a sharp increase in the number of patients in the psychiatry; citizens who simply have to end up in crime for help or who have gone so long without sufficient help that they end up in crime. Every year in recent years, legal psychiatry has seen an increase of 7%. a year. That is a quite dramatic increase, and it is, especially because it continues. The shame is that we know what works. It is a strengthening of hospital psychiatry with multiple beds and the possibility of long-term admissions, so that we can minimise the number of so-called revolving door patients. It is more resources for activities in the departments, a multifaceted range of offers with music therapy, exercise, cognitive therapy and an interdisciplinary effort. We have the experience, and we know what works, also as a preventive action. All we need is the political will to allocate the funds. Now there are several who have mentioned the specialized social psychiatry departments, and I also need to touch on them here, because I believe that the new departments are a legal and educational freak. For many years we have had a clear principle that coercion is only applied if a citizen is psychotic and endangers himself or others. It's now getting out of hand. Now you can experience a forced detention if only some specific criteria are met. And it's actually worse. In fact, you can be detained on the new offers, even though the doctor says that citizens do not have a severe mental illness. It is a consultative committee which decides by majority vote, and the doctor's decision can therefore be disregarded. In other words, it calls for a vote to be taken on whether a citizen has a mental illness. This is a rather violent attack on legal certainty and, at the very least, on our view of citizens with a mental illness. So instead, the government should immediately allocate funds to the Finance Act to boost psychiatry, which could secure more places in treatment psychiatry, so that it becomes a medical assessment that determines whether a citizen can be admitted, rather than today, when it is often a resource assessment. In addition, the government, together with professionals, users and relatives' organisations, should initiate work on a new psychiatry action plan. Therefore, on behalf of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, I should like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that there is a considerable financial delay in the psychiatry, which among other things. results in a lack of beds. The number of patients has increased by 43% from 2007 to 2014, while the appropriations have only increased by 17%. Parliament notes that it has the consequence that citizens with a mental illness experience difficulties in hospitalisation due to lack of beds. It should not be resource considerations that determine whether a citizen with mental illness can be admitted, but only a medical assessment. Parliament should therefore encourage the government to initiate work on a new psychiatry action plan to clarify the need for resources and optimise cooperation between citizens, hospital psychiatry and special psychiatry. Work on a new psychiatry action plan should involve representatives of users, relatives and staff in psychiatry. • V 37).
ParlaMint-DK_20170203151130	Thank you. This proposal for adoption will also be included in the further negotiations. Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203151145	Thank you. I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for bringing up a debate on this subject of mental illness. This is a very important area, which is far from always getting the focus and attention it should have. Unfortunately, we see many unhappy fates in psychiatry, people who, for one reason or another, have come into a situation where life is too difficult, and we must try to help them as best we can. Some need hospitalization, which is why we have launched several initiatives to provide more beds. Funds have been earmarked for more beds, yet the number of beds has fallen and there is a shortage of them. That's not gonna work. We need to find out how it is and how we can ensure that there are more beds. We see patients who are discharged prematurely, and there are too many re-hospitals. It is therefore appropriate to examine what conditions exist, how we can avoid these too short admissions and how we can help psychiatric patients better. It must never be capacity that determines whether a patient is hospitalised or discharged. It must always be based on a medical assessment. We in the Danish Parliament must ensure that the regions have the framework needed for the regions to fulfil that task. That is why we have launched several initiatives followed by financial resources. A working group has been set up, along with the regions, to look at how to get the best treatment out of these interventions and how to provide the best help for psychiatric patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203151334	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203151343	According to figures from the State Institute for Public Health, approximately 20% will be available. of the Danish population during a year experience problems with their mental health. That's between 700,000 and 800,000 people. Psychiatric illness can affect all of us, and we must take development seriously and work to ensure that fewer people are affected and that more people get through their disease course well. Much of this effort is about strengthening the fight against stress, depression, anxiety, and other diseases, even before they occur. The second is to address more acute challenges with a lack of resources in institutions and settlements. Here, more money may be part of the solution. The number of mentally ill criminals has increased as the number of beds has fallen, and the number of severely mentally ill people among the homeless has increased. A third part of the effort is also about the political courage to give priority to preventive action, so that in future there will be no need for so many beds and admissions. If you look at the current challenges, it is important for the alternative that we ensure that mentally ill people can receive the treatment they need and that it is based on a medical assessment, not economics, as well as it is also important that patients can remain hospitalized until they are ready to be discharged from medical practice. Of course, we have no ambition to go back to bed psychiatry in the past, but we fully agree with the professionals who stress that the combination of more patients, fewer beds and a lack of outpatient psychiatry is an extremely dangerous development, among other things. Because we have seen that it can have fatal consequences if patients are discharged prematurely. As a society, we have a common obligation to ensure that the system can handle mentally ill people, including those who are too healthy to be hospitalised, but too sick to live for themselves or stay in the settlements that receive them after the discharge. I would also like to mention that I agree with those of my colleagues who have pointed out how important it is that mentally ill people can receive the right treatment, even when they are in hospital. Research shows, for example, that: exercise, diet and environmental therapy can reduce the individual's use of medicines, and this requires employees to dress up to take on that task. We also need to think new, we believe, in the alternative. In Florida, a hospital for severely mentally ill offenders is run by patients being actively involved in the daily operation, which gives them some new skills that equip them for discharge. I would also like to stress how important it is that we remember each other that a great many mental illnesses can be prevented. If we take action in time and give priority to preventive action, we can actually prevent many of these people from even needing pills, a bedroom or treatment. Unfortunately, we are too poor to prevent, especially when it comes to mental illness. We simply do not give it enough priority and we spend too little money on it. When we do not give enough priority to prevention, it has a major impact on social sustainability, but it also has a major impact on our economy. Psychiatric illness costs our society about 55 billion each year. kr. in the cost of treatment and lost earnings. That is why there is good sense, both on the part of the individual and on the part of the community, in giving priority to preventive action. Finally, I would like to make it clear that the alternative is, of course, ready to discuss how to rethink our systems and develop new good solutions to the challenges facing psychiatry now and in the long term. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the Danish People's Party for calling this debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203151807	Thank you. And the next rapporteur is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203151813	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Danish People's Party for the debate on the question, which I think is extremely relevant. Thank you, too, for the Minister's statement. A proper and humane psychiatry requires easy access and good and effective treatment for people with mental illness so that they can return to their daily lives as soon as possible. In spite of the Minister's many fine words, that is not the case today. Too many are rejected in the door when they approach the treating psychiatry, or are printed too quickly. A few weeks ago, the psychiatrist's president said that he could not deny working on the concept of healthy Friday in the psychiatric wards because of the lack of beds and psychiatrists. There is therefore still a need for a general increase in the area, despite the funds transferred to the area by the previous government. In the SF, we would like to see the same attention given to psychiatry as we, for example. causes the cancer area. We have therefore also pointed out that, in the future, efforts should be made to achieve 25 per cent. of the new health resources provided to health care should be earmarked for mentally ill people so that we could have a better framework and more trained psychiatrists and specially trained psychologists and nurses and social and health assistants into psychiatry, while at the same time strengthening cooperation between the treating psychiatric and social psychiatry in the municipalities. In this context, I think we should listen to the Medical Association, the Danish Nursing Council, the FOA and Danske Patients, who have pointed out joint funding of psychiatric houses, so that the bosses and in the transition between the two systems could draw on the health professionality we have in the hospital part of the psychiatry, and the social professionalism that currently exists in the municipalities. Then I have not mentioned the need for much stronger preventive action, for example in the form of free access to psychological assistance for young people, so that we might avoid the mental vulnerability of many young people later on becoming psychoses and mental illness. This also means that we must not only look at inappropriate structures, we must also look at a lack of economy or inappropriate distribution of funds for psychiatry. In the SF we think it is urgent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152052	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152059	Thank you, President. Thank you to the Danish People's Party for raising the question so that we can continue to focus on some of our most weak fellow citizens who require special care and treatment. And thank you to the Minister for the introductory remarks that Conservatives share. It was reassuring to hear that the Minister also looks very seriously at the challenges and will follow them closely. There is no doubt that for many years there has been a backlog in the psychiatric area, while there has been a sharp increase in the number of patients. It was therefore also with satisfaction that Conservatives helped to grant 2.2 billion. kr. in pool funds for the psychiatry area from 2015 to 2018. It was a much needed boost. The hopes for improvement were great, the more regrettable it is to note that, despite the large sums of money contributed to the regions, it has not, overall, resulted in more beds in psychiatric hospitals. On the contrary, there has been less pressure than ever. Conservatives were therefore also pleased that the former Minister called the rate pool parties for a follow-up meeting in October last year in order to put in place better governance tools so that we could better follow the rate pool funds forward. It is inconceivable that the regions do not have the opportunity to compile figures and information in this area in the same way, so that we in the Folketing can have a clear insight into the situation. Having said that, however, it is positive to note that waiting times have generally become much shorter than just a few years ago. One must then just hope that the acute needy will get there immediately and that the rest can tolerate waiting up to 20, 25, 27 days before they come into contact with the psychiatric system. However, this is an issue on which we must continue to focus our attention. The question then is whether patients are discharged prematurely from psychiatric hospitals. In the recently published report from the Danish Health Data Protection Agency on re-housing in psychiatry, it can be observed that almost one in four adults are reinstated and one in four of them will be re-housing in the first three days. It's the chief medical officer's sovereign decision whether or not to discharge a patient. However, from a press report and from the interest organization SIND could very well suggest that due to overcrowding or expected many admissions up to a weekend, some patients print prematurely. So-called dot rounds on Fridays are not good music in my ears, and the aforementioned report also shows that there is a higher rate of re-hospitation for patients who have just been discharged after a short stay outside daylight or at weekends. In general, those responsible in the regions should take note of the report. Statistics speak their clear language, both in terms of patient groups and their social background. It is precisely the rehousing groups mentioned in the report that the hospitals should perhaps give a little more attention for a few days. In this respect, I will not fail to repeat that it is not the fault of the current or former government or of the ministers in office that the psychiatry does not function optimally. It is the regions that have operational responsibility, especially after the addition of 2.2 billion. kr. One should rightly expect something better. Conservatives recognise that there is a shortage of staff across the country. We should therefore consider whether other professional groups can be upgraded so that hospitals are given the necessary skills as soon as possible. Conservatives suggest that the Minister convenes Danske Regions for a meeting and specifies that there must be the necessary capacity for patients who need hospitalization for a shorter or longer period of time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152543	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152554	Thank you for the debate, and thank you for the many comments that I will choose to interpret as an expression that this is an area that concerns us all. I think that when you sit in this Chamber and listen to the speeches that have been made, you can see that a great deal is going on again, and that also shows that we have some common tasks to undertake. Therefore, it is also a good opportunity to again thank the Danish People's Party for putting this topic on the agenda. I look forward, as a minister, to the commitments that have been made by the parties today that we will jointly focus on the psychiatry area, not least with some of the projects that we have already launched, but also with some of the initiatives that we will be taking in the future, including the review of the entire psychiatry area initiated by the government, but also with the recommendations that may come from the Committee, on the close, coherent health care when it comes to the psychiatry area. Unfortunately, as all the rapporteurs have said, there are far too many places where there is no connection in the course of the day, and where it is the citizen and the patient who ends up falling between the chairs, instead of establishing the link which precisely has to ensure better patient progress. So from here I should like to thank you for the debate and a commitment that this is an area which concerns me very much as Minister for Health and the Government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152715	Then there is a brief comment from Mrs Liselott Blixt, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152718	Thank you very much, and thank you very much for the debate too. The Minister replied to this question with a figure of 2.2 billion. kr., which we gave. We have, of course, questioned where this money became of me in particular, who had done a great deal of work in getting money for children and young people. We have no answer yet, so I wonder if this is something the Minister is going to push the regions for, so we will get an answer as to whether the money really went to children and young people, which I think is just under a lot of stress out there at the moment. Then I would like to ask the Minister if, when the Minister comes back from maternity, he will perhaps contact the Minister for Education so that we can make the best offers for the children and young people who are sometimes hospitalized, to prevent us from having these more re-hospitals and so that we support them so that they get a really good upbringing. In fact, these are the ones we have to live on in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152815	Thank you. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152816	Thank you and thank you for the question. I would also very much like to point out that there will be better clarification for children and young people in relation to the 2.2 billion. kr., and make sure that it is sent to the committee so that more attention is also paid to it. Fortunately, we can see that when it comes to waiting, it has been decreasing, and that is positive. But there are also a number of other points where there is good reason for us to look both at the context and at what quality it is in the offers that lie in children and young psychiatry. As far as the Minister for Education is concerned, and I know the area from my former post as Minister, I would like to have a dialogue with the Minister for Education, because we see some children and young people who will have both half and full years away from their educational institution as a result of some of the courses they are in. Some of them also have large social phobias which make it difficult for them to get the education they both deserve and which is necessary for them to make good progress in life. This is an area in which we must also focus on inter-ministerial cooperation in relation to a vulnerable group of children.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152925	Mrs. Liselott Blixt.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152926	I am very pleased that the Minister will go into it that way. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the various parties and health rapporteurs and the psychiatry rapporteurs for today's debate. At the same time, however, I would also like to say that the Minister mentions that waiting lists have become shorter. It just won't do us any good if we see any more re-hospitals.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152948	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203152949	Well, it has to be so that the waiting lists get shorter that we get the treatment going earlier. As I also said in my opening speech, and that more of these courses shouldn't end up in hospital or end up where they do today, because we have to take things in the bud. I think that many people are saying this: when we talk about mental disorders, vulnerable groups, we need to be much better at preventing and thus ensuring coherence in our efforts in this area. So yes, rehousing must be avoided, waiting lists must also be short, and prevention must be more prominent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203153025	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister. No one else has asked for the floor and the debate is closed. The vote on the proposals for adoption submitted will take place only on Tuesday, 7 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170203153043	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 7 February 2017, at 6 pm. 13.00. I refer to the agenda that will appear on the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which will appear on the Danish Parliament's website.
