ParlaMint-DK_20171026100013	The meeting is open. Today there are the following reviews: Minister of Justice (Søren Pape Poulsen): Bill no. L 67 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Arms and Explosives and the Law on Watchkeeping. Minister for Foreign Affairs and Integration (Inger Støjberg): Bill No. L 71 (Proposal for a law on the right of residence). Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 72 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Protection of Animals and the Law on the keeping of Animals). Peter Kofod Poulsen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. B 20 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the prohibition of child sex dolls). Martin Henriksen (DF) and others: Motion for a resolution (Doc. Β 21 (Proposal for a resolution on the criminalisation of acts preventing the forced transmission of foreigners) and motion for a resolution No. B-22 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution to write the European Convention on Human Rights out of Danish law). The titles of the cases submitted will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20171026100114	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026100135	The debate is open, and it is first Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026100157	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his thorough statement. There are 13 full pages, so I can hardly imagine that there is one area that has not been mentioned. So thank you so much. A lot is happening in the Arctic these years. It is clear to note that not only is there again an increased interest in Arctic development by the great power. For at the Arctic Circle conference recently it was also clear that there is an emerging growth in the Arctic economy. The Taksøe report highlights the consequences for Denmark of developments in the Arctic. That is why it is important that we also consider how we prepare for the new reality. Climate change is, of course, driving interest in and in the Arctic. However, the development of climate change should also lead us to consider how best to carry out the green transition. A regulation of the area will, of course, have the derived effect that the harmful air pollution in, for example, air pollution is harmful to health. the major Danish cities will fall considerably. I would therefore like to ask the Minister how the work on reduction measures in relation to soot and particle pollution is in Denmark. How is this work and what action is the government planning to regulate that area? The Minister describes the good cooperation between all parties in the Arctic Council, and we are naturally pleased about that. Above all, we welcome the fact that cooperation in this area can also be carried out smoothly with Russia, despite the other tensions that may exist in that regard. Cooperation between the countries in particular is a crucial element in relation to the Arctic emergency response. The long distances and scattered settlements mean that accidents will require joint action. Therefore, it is also good that we have participated in exercises that train that preparedness. At the Arctic Circle conference, I spoke to a representative of the cruise operators. I specifically asked whether the risk of disaster was worrying the operators and whether distanced couples were a solution. The operators rejected total pairing for competitive reasons, as she said. That is why I have two specific accident scenarios that I would like to hear how we are going to deal with today. Scenario 1: A cruise ship sails into an uninhabited Greenlandic fjord far from airports, perhaps in East Greenland, hits an unmeasured screech and slowly descends, while passengers rescue themselves ashore from the lifeboats. What happens next? Will they survive? Scenario 2 is a passenger plane which is on its way to the United States from Europe, as it is forced to land on the inland ice. Fortunately, the ice sheet is a relatively flat and soft landing area, so all passengers survive the landing. Unfortunately, the landing has taken place on that part of the ice sheet that cannot be reached by helicopter. What do we do? I do not expect the Minister to be able to give details of the action on a stand-by basis. However, I would like to emphasise that it is scenarios like these that we have to deal with and be honest about. I find it difficult to imagine that passengers who board a cruise ship, where it is promised that they will have unique experiences and get to where no one else has been before, are at all aware that there will probably be no rescue if the worst should happen. I know that the Canadian Coast Guard is constantly sending messages to cruise ships and others in the waters off the Canadian Arctic coast about where rescue is and thus how far away rescue is and also how modest the aid will be. So it is not only a challenge in Greenland, but a challenge throughout the Arctic. Following on from this, I would like to ask the Minister how the control and protection of the North-East Passage is being carried out, as there is now a start on shipping that way too. So, what part of the responsibility lies with Denmark, as the route passes through Greenland waters, and what rules apply to protect the marine environment in the North-East Passage? As mentioned above, the basis for my questions is the economic development of the Arctic, and here it is relevant to focus on how best to use resources. This applies to living resources such as fish, seal and whale, and to mineral resources, and to human and landscape resources in the form of tourism. As the Arctic sea ice melts, it is important to ensure that stocks are not overfished in the newly opened sea areas. Therefore, we would very much like to support the work to secure an agreement on the management of fish stocks in the Arctic. But living resources are more than fish, and here the European Union's position on living Arctic resources worries me, not least seals and whales. The dominant position in the European Union seems to be that the Arctic should be a kind of open-air museum where even sustainable exploitation of the area's animals should not be possible. The seal skin ban affects, for example: the Greenlandic hunters and the Greenlandic community, although the catch is sustainable and blue-stamped by the WWF. Now the Commission will have changed the International Whaling Commission, the IWC, to be a whale conservation organisation. Here, too, an exception is proposed for indigenous people. This applies to the Greenlandic people, but they must only be allowed to catch what they can eat themselves. In the past, the Commission has problematized that tourists will also be able to go to a restaurant in Greenland and eat whales. In the Social Democratic Party, we support the right of the Greenlanders and the Faroese to sustainably reap their living resources. We therefore hope that the government will set all its sails to ensure that this will also be the case in the future. We do not have good experience of exceptions in the European Union. And should it prove impossible to stop the Commission's action, Denmark should insist that the EU compensates Greenland and the Faroe Islands for the loss, preferably in the form of increased investment in, for example. infrastructure or tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026100837	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026100854	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for this independent statement on cooperation in the Arctic. The report focuses primarily on the international cooperation in the Arctic, which is a cooperation between the Arctic coastal states, the United States, Canada, Norway, Russia and the Kingdom of Denmark as regards the Faroe Islands and Greenland. The Arctic is a huge area and a very resourceful area, which can still be called unexplored. The new opportunities that may lie in the Arctic, when the ice sea is largely out of ice in the summer, make many of the world's great powers and economic players think that the region is suddenly very interesting. The Arctic is of great importance to the coastal states around the Arctic Ocean, but also to major powers such as China, Japan and the EU and others. want to be players here when the new opportunities can be seen on the northern horizon. We are talking here about opportunities in fisheries, transport, tourism and mining, both under and above sea level, etc. These are extremely large natural resources and great opportunities for gains with shorter shipping routes and opportunities for tourism at the top of the world. Therefore, Denmark must continue to support a hundred percent of the Ilulissat agreement, where coastal states have tied each other to the fact that disagreements that may arise in the Arctic are also resolved on the basis of international law and that the Arctic is maintained as a low-voltage area. There can very quickly be far-reaching major political conflicts about these enormous opportunities in the Arctic. Conversation and international law are the best way to resolve these conflicts. I would also like to acknowledge that the government's foreign and security policy strategy gives priority to the Arctic, and it places particular emphasis on economic development for the benefit of the people of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. This is what the government intends to do by placing industry's development and economy more centrally on the agenda of the Arctic Council, by identifying the possibilities for adequate international investment and by strengthening export promotion efforts in favour of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. It is the Kingdom of Denmark which is a member of the Arctic fora, and therefore it is only natural that the government will do as much as possible to protect the interests of the Greenlandic and Faroese peoples in the Arctic as well. Last week I was on Iceland to attend a conference, Arctic Circle, which is the world's largest international assembly on the Arctic. It is a conference for all who are interested in the development of the Arctic. The overwhelming participation in the conference shows that interest in the Arctic is unmistakable: over 2,000 participants from more than 50 countries around the world and countless interest organisations, and everyone has an interest in the Arctic. I welcome the fact that interest in the Arctic is so great when I think about the new opportunities that may emerge. But I'm also worried, while the Arctic is an extremely resourceful region, the Arctic is at the same time a region with extreme weather conditions. And it strikes me that many actors who wish to enter the Arctic really do not understand what this is all about. Among other things: I hear that the cruise industry is dissatisfied with the fact that they are required to have cruise ships operating in parallel in the Arctic, so that they are always followed by two and two. They believe that this is a distortion of competition and they object to it in terms of being able to sell these exclusive tours to the top of the world they can then become a little more expensive. I would just like to say to the industry that they have not understood the seriousness of the demands that are being made. Should the accident be out with a cruise ship that either encounters an iceberg, loses engine power, sails on a cut or the like, what are they gonna do with all these passengers? Should they be dropped on the ice sheet, perhaps a few thousand kilometers from civilization? On the ice sheet they may survive a few hours, in the icy sea no more than a few minutes. It is not without reason that great demands must be made on all actors who have thoughts of operating in the Arctic. The cruise industry is only one of many industries that have big plans in the Arctic. In other areas too, we must make great demands, precisely to take account of the extreme conditions which may arise very suddenly in relation to nature and people in the Arctic. The defence stands for the Danish part of the task solution in the Arctic. The main task is of course military, that is to be a defence of Greenland and the Faroe Islands on land, on water and in the air. But the defence also carries out a large part of the other emergency and practical tasks in the Arctic, from sea rescue, land and sea surveying, fisheries control, environmental monitoring, shipping and maritime safety, etc. etc. In December 2016, we entered into an agreement with the government to strengthen the DOD's future task solution in the Arctic. The Ministry's analysis, which will be the basis for the reinforcement, has now come and shows that the Ministry of Defence's task solution has been strengthened in many areas over recent years, but it is also relevant to further strengthen monitoring, command, control, communication, operational intervention units, etc. etc. With the growing interest in the Arctic, we will also have to continue to keep up and strengthen our efforts in other areas; this also applies to efforts to improve conditions around land and sea charting, where there is still a long way to go before we reach our goal. In the field of the environment and nature, a great deal must also be done to protect the Arctic nature. Later today, we must take a step in relation to this area when we are dealing with a draft law on the protection of the marine environment in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland, that is. from 3 nautical miles from the coast up to 200 nautical miles from the coast. There we want to make a positive attitude and make greater demands on the impact of ships on the marine environment in relation to environmental improvement in Greenland. The Arctic is a huge and resourceful area. As one of the five major actors in the Arctic, we stand here with great opportunities and a great responsibility to ensure that people and nature can go hand in hand in the Arctic. It is our responsibility to ensure that only actors will the Arctic be able to act here. It is our responsibility that the development of the region also benefits people in the region. We have a duty to use all the mouthpieces we can find to safeguard the interests of the Kingdom in the Arctic, whether it be fishing, large-scale politics, the environment, energy, raw materials, health or tourism. We have an obligation to secure law and order in the Arctic. We must ensure that those who want the good in the Arctic have the necessary respect for nature and people so that they can have access to the Arctic. It must be our and the government's pointer when we navigate in the amazing but also dangerous Arctic waters. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101637	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101642	The Arctic is so many things. Greenland is only 20%. of the total Arctic in land mass. In 2014, there was a UN Declaration on indigenous peoples, and it contributed to a final document that applies all over the world. In this context, the Arctic people have an extended right to sustainable catch of their living resources. I also know that the Danish Kingdom is quite the only one with regard to the forthcoming IWC debate on whales in relation to the other EU countries. What is the position of the Danish People's Party on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101727	We've always stood up for it. After all, there has been a great deal of focus on laughing catch in the Faroe Islands, and we have always said that as long as this is sustainable, we have no problem with the indigenous peoples being allowed to drift their catch, which is, of course, part of the food in the Arctic areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101751	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101753	The EU's rights-based approach to development is the attitude they have. However, the majority of EU Member States still do not support the Danish Kingdom's position on Great Whales, which is not part of the grinning whale catch. In this context, the Danish Kingdom faces major challenges in getting the other EU countries to understand our approach to sustainable whaling. What do we think the Danish Kingdom should do to bring all EU Member States with us?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101828	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101829	There is, of course, a dialogue, but it is true that we are facing some challenges. And it has also given some rather strange situations where Denmark has faced the Faroe Islands and Greenland and has had to be part of the European Union and impose on the rest of the Kingdom community some instructions that we were not interested in giving at all. And it has to be said that the Danish People's Party is on the side of both the Greenlanders and the Faroese.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101859	Thank you. Then there are a few further comments. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101905	Now the rapporteur said that we were one of the strongest in the current debate, understood that it is probably Denmark, I understand from the Danish People's Party. Is it not important that we also discuss democracy when we talk about the Arctic? I am thinking of how can a party such as DF, which is of course supportive of the government, begin to talk about the need to remove the self-government law in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026101935	Now it is not under this statement. But we have a community of kingdoms, and that is why we also have an obligation to each other, and also to those citizens who are subject to solutions other than those that we have in Denmark, for example. If it hurts the ordinary citizen if it is in Greenland, in the Faroe Islands or in Denmark, then we feel that we must take care of the citizen at all times, no matter where in the kingdom the citizen is.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102007	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102009	Then I have to ask you a few questions: does the rapporteur agree with Mr Seligman? Søren Espersen in that it was possible to abolish the self-government law and thus abolish the democratic opportunities for influence in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102023	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102025	After all, the Danish People's Party has repeatedly focused on it when something does not work, for example in Greenland, where it is the citizen that we have a greater obligation to than we have to self-government. If there are things that self-government cannot take care of, then I think it might be a very good idea to say, perhaps at times, that it was not a good idea to get a helping hand from Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102051	Thank you. In any case, there will be a debate on this later on, in which it can be clarified. Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102100	Thank you very much and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. DF has been out and pronounced as Enhedslisten's rapporteur also mentioned that one is ready to suspend the Self-Government Act. But it is true that the Danish People's Party was the only party to vote against the Self-Government Act. It is important to point out that it is the Greenlandic people who must be heard, even if the self-government law is suspended. So, of course, there is no question of the autonomy law being suspended. Now the rapporteur himself mentions that there are a number of areas in which it would be desirable for the Danish Parliament to interfere in relation to internal Greenlandic affairs, among others. In the social field and in the field of education. I think this is the way it would not be appropriate for us, for example, to do so. first focused on justice and defence, where we know that there are already some challenges?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102152	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102154	Thank you. But some of the legal points to which the questioner refers are not, of course, the social costs, as some of the points we have pointed out, among other things. mass abuse of children in Greenland has. We think this is so important that we really should take care of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102222	Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102223	Thank you very much. Now it is the case that legal certainty lags behind, at least in some areas of Greenland, and this is, in fact, a responsibility that we have here in the Folketing. So I am thinking that it might be appropriate to focus on what we ourselves need to do in order to remedy some of the areas for which we already have a responsibility today, rather than focusing on some of the other areas. If you look at social matters and education, you see that we are some people in Greenland who are struggling to make sure that these areas are raised, and the figures show that things are going the right way. Some of us think it's going too slow. However, it is to point out that we have a task today that we do not adequately undertake.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102300	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102301	Well, I do acknowledge that there is a great deal of work going on to correct it, and God has reason to do so. But we also put on the critical glasses from the Danish People's Party when we look at ourselves. I have been standing down here several times in Parliament's Question Time asking how and how we maintain legal certainty in the settlements. And it's true that there's a shortage of city guards and others. But the thing about deporting people has been tried once around Thule. I do not think we should do that any further, so the reason why we need city guards is because people are not looking for the posts that are being looked up. 'Cause it's not like there's no job notice. But if people don't want to work, God knows we can't force them to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102344	You don't have to call on the higher powers here in the Folketing. Henrik Brodersen I will remember that, Madam President). That's good. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Bertel Haarder, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026102405	Thank you, President-in-Office, and thank you to the Foreign Minister for a full statement which, by its very nature, is about the Commonwealth. Without the Commonwealth there would be less high ceilings in Denmark, in my opinion, and it is not least the Arctic that binds the Commonwealth together. When we stand together in the kingdom community, we are a great player in the Arctic, but we are an even bigger player when we stand together in the Nordic countries. Together, the North has the world's largest merchant fleet and a GDP greater than Russia's. We are responsible for a gigantic area of the earth, which is becoming increasingly important. That area has been marked by peace and happiness, and that is the way it should continue to be. But it must not become a military vacuum which can tempt large neighbours and others who may be interested in the area. We must take care of our part of the Arctic, we must monitor it and make it clear that it is ours. The statement does not say much about Nordic cooperation, but there is one paragraph about 2 million. kr. The Nordic Council of Ministers' cooperation programme on sustainable business development, environment, nature and climate, and education and competence development is presented. And a new cooperation programme is on the way with four p's: peoples, planet, prosperity and partnerships with links to the UN's climate goals and greater focus and, as it says, and I quote: more policy in Nordic work. The latter is important because when you read the report, you get the impression that political cooperation between the Nordic countries is more composed of programmes than of joint political initiatives. Do the Nordic countries join forces whenever possible and when it is in our interest? Are we acting like the big player we are? Are we gonna talk and we're gonna act together? For that must be what is meant when the Nordic Council of Ministers has wanted more policy in Nordic co-operation. After all, it is not about programmes; it is about joint action. It must also mean more common defence policy. The other Nordic countries are in full swing, but Denmark has so far pulled a little bit on its feet. It is therefore also gratifying that the Norwegian and Danish Defence Ministers now both speak and write together, most recently an excellent joint chronicle. Both there and in the Foreign Minister's statement mention is made of Nordic co-operation in NORDEFCO, where, and I quote, cooperation can be established on the particular challenges faced by extremely cold personnel and equipment and on the development of Arctic winter training. There is much talk of disaster preparedness, but not so much about military cooperation. It is reassuring that Greendal is re-established as a strategic logistical support point and that the DOD's task solution in the Arctic in a number of areas has been strengthened. But the Foreign Minister's statement also says honestly and honestly, and I quote: "It is relevant to further strengthen monitoring, command, control and communication and operational intervention units. Strengthening these areas will help to strengthen the solution of multiple tasks at one and the same time, including the supremacy of sovereignty, search and rescue services, the marine environment and support for civil society. The disaster in Nuugaatsiaq is a fresh and tragic example of the need for the latter. That's one of them. what the Nordic Stoltenberg report highlighted by proposing increased Nordic cooperation. And I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how he views the Northern Dimension in all that we are talking about here, how he views Stoltenberg's proposal, also about a new Defence Commission, which can be understood by the Nordic Social Democrats, in other words the proposal. There are impressive many of the cooperation programmes, that is very good, just as it is good when Russia is involved. The more concrete cooperation with Russia on common challenges and the more dialogue, the better. It can only promote peace and confidence if we do at the same time monitor and inspect the Arctic region. Dialogue may be needed in order to safeguard the special Danish interests linked to the forthcoming expansion of the Kingdom's continental shelf north of Greenland. As you know, it must be dealt with by the United Nations Commission on the Borders of the Continental Shelf, CLCS. This is an area 20 times as large as Denmark, including the North Pole. Last but not least, on behalf of the Left, I would like to stress the importance of the Ilulissat Declaration on the Arctic as a low-voltage area. I would also like to highlight the new binding agreement between the eight Arctic States on strengthened research cooperation in and on the Arctic and on the Arctic University and the major international conference Arctic Circle, which has just taken place in Iceland with the participation of the Danish Minister for Cooperation and Fisheries. But let us not forget that the Arctic has, first and foremost, a homeland of peoples who, of course, have the right to decide in their own countries and territories and the right to be heard when their interests are drawn too close, such as that of the United States. has been the case with seal catches. I do not forget when I attended the Circumpolar Conference in Northcanada in the 1990s, and when last winter as Minister of Culture I attended Arctic Winter Games with the Crown Prince. On these occasions and on other occasions you experience rich, proud and self-conscious cultures. And then I would add that one is also a little proud of the Kingdom community when one participates in such events. The Greenlandic participants were and are clearly leading among the many peoples. It is my view that we have had far more benefit than the damage of the community of fate that became ours 200 years ago when Denmark and Norway were forced to divorce. It is not only history and family ties that bind us together; it is also the Arctic and the challenges and opportunities that lie in this huge area of increasing economic and strategic importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103135	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments. First, it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103139	Denmark and Greenland and the Faroe Islands have one voice in the Arctic Council, and I think that is really, really fine. This forces us to have good dialogues and debates about our joint efforts in the Arctic area, which is based on sustainability in terms of the environment, monitoring of fauna and flora and security both at land and at sea. I noticed that the Foreign Minister's Arctic statement does not mention in a word Camp Century, which is military remains of the Americans, and a pollution which is the largest of its kind in the Danish kingdom. What is the Left's position on this?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103223	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103225	We are confident that the Danish Foreign Minister will deal with the good question raised by Mrs Aleqa Hammond here. It is easier said than done to solve the problem, but there is no doubt that it must be done in cooperation between Denmark and Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103242	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103244	The Danish Kingdom returned the commission to the continental shelf in 2014. What should the Danish Kingdom focus on in the coming years as regards the Arctic and our work to strengthen our demands?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103302	Here you go, sir. Bertel Haarder.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103303	As far as the demand in the very large area is concerned, that is, the extension of the continental shelf with, among other things, the extension of the continental shelf. The North Pole, as I recall, has put in place a very good and well prepared strategy for when we do what. What matters is that we keep our great neighbour Russia on the negotiating track, and I think that is what all our efforts are about. But it may be that the Secretary of State will add something.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103342	Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103345	Thank you. I very much agree with Mr. Bertel Haarder's reflections on the Nordic Region and Nordic cooperation as a strong link in developing things in the Arctic. Sir. Bertel Haarder mentioned the Ilulissat Declaration and the relaxation. How does the rapporteur of the Left view the possibility that, although the Russians today are both military but also transport dominant in the Arctic, it seems that the Americans cannot figure out how to put a strategy for the Arctic, but this is perhaps due to the current president; I do not know how to use this opportunity as part of the debate that the United Nations has launched to free the whole world of nuclear weapons, is working to say that at least the Arctic must be free of nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103439	Thank you. Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103440	After all, it is a debate which reminds us of a very long debate throughout the Cold War, where there were some who wanted a nuclear-free zone in the North, while Soviet nuclear weapons were sailed up and down the Danish waters. We must be realistic and a nuclear-free zone must be something that everyone respects and that has really been negotiated widely. And I do not think that we can solve anything by saying: nuclear-free zone. Well, that word doesn't solve anything.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103526	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103528	Well, the Ilulissat Declaration is precisely about relaxation and talks about demilitarisation of the Arctic, which is why it is good to start at the dangerous end. And I mean, I guess that's no harm to say to the Russians: yes, we would like to have a dialogue with you, and we would actually like you not to have nuclear weapons in that area. I know no one else has any nuclear weapons. I don't think the Americans have nuclear weapons anymore in Thule. I think it was a fallacy at an earlier time in history. That is why it is important to address these issues. I guess it's also important in this area to be realistic, but also to be visionary if you're going to make some changes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103608	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103609	I believe that the most important thing is that the Kingdom Community and the Nordic countries act on the basis of an awareness that we must first and foremost be present in the Arctic, we must monitor and inspect the Arctic, and we must be awake if anyone violates sovereignty. That's the most important thing. And then we have to negotiate everything we can. After all, I talked a lot about dialogue and so on, and this includes, of course, nuclear weapons. And there can be no doubt that since neither the kingdom nor the Nordic countries have nuclear weapons, we would very much like to see Russian nuclear weapons in the Arctic not being sailed either. That almost goes without saying. But that view and that statement do not solve anything in itself. That's just what I was trying to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103709	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026103720	After all, the Arctic report provides a basis for a great many debates, perhaps even many more, than there will be room for in a whole day. First, however, I would like to make a few comments on the form of the statement, and that is mostly because I think it really deserves greater publicity than a small exclusive group of rapporteurs and a few ministerial staff. I would urge the Minister to be a little more visionary in the preparation of the statement. It is very heavy and at times a very difficult list of the collaborations which Mr. Bertel Haarder was talking about. Listing plans and such things is also important, but I doubt that quite a lot of people outside this floor will make it through the whole statement. I would urge you to do so, for example. was inspired by the shape of the foreign and security policy strategy, which is much more accessible, especially with the four annexes listing concrete initiatives that will be taken in the future. It is very clear, and it might be possible for others other than those who have to read it to read it. But now to the content. The Arctic and especially the rapidly melting ice provide the basis for debates on a wide range of issues, and from Enhedslisten there are two guiding principles in the Arctic. Firstly, what we are doing is doing for the people who live in the Arctic. There are immensely many economic interests, there are immensely many military interests and security interests in the Arctic, but from the very beginning and the end it will always be a question of how the people living in the Arctic will have a good and sustainable life. We must respect the right to self-determination and the concern for indigenous peoples. Secondly, we will always start from the fact that the activities we set in motion in the Arctic need to look at sustainable principles and take optimal account of the very sensitive nature facing change due to climate change. The Arctic is more exposed to climate change than the rest of the globe, because the increase in temperature here is two to three times as high. It is important that we maintain the 2008 Ilulissat agreement that all disagreements over the Arctic should be resolved on the basis of international law and that détente is an objective. When we look at the many international organisations that are interested in the Arctic, it is important to leave the right of negotiation to Greenland and the Faroe Islands wherever possible. Without Denmark's cooperation with Greenland and the Faroe Islands in the Kingdom Community, Denmark would have no particular influence or position in the Arctic debate. We have to remember that. It is as if we sometimes play a little with our muscles at least when the Danish People's Party gave its rapporteur's speech. It is not Denmark that can play with the muscles, it is Greenland in particular, but also the Faroe Islands. I also attended the major international conference on the Arctic called Arctic Circle in Iceland a few weeks ago. 2,000 people had appeared for 3 days, and many of them, many of them, were of commercial interest. I was surprised that so many people had so many economic and commercial interests in putting themselves in order to make money from the new opportunities. Much less were the organisations that work for environmental considerations and for the interests of indigenous peoples. It is a bias that we need to work to change if Arctic Circle is to have a balanced approach to the problems that are in the area. Well, I know there was a discussion about indigenous people, and I know there was a discussion about climate and the environment, but they didn't fill much in the big companies that can sell tankers and the big companies that can make trips etc. It is important that we focus on this, and the government must also correct that in cooperation, so that we have the overall angle, that it is people and the climate that are the most important, and then profit and the market must go into the background. We just had a small discussion about the nuclear-free Arctic here with the rapporteur of the Left. It is important that the defense is present on the Arctic. The thing about securing borders is a fine saying, but if a ship and two helicopters from the Danish defence are to secure the Greenlandic borders, if there really was a threat to them, then I would say that it is more of a symbolic measure that we have. I now see more the task of defence as participation in Search and Rescue, in monitoring and in securing those who are on the lake so that they can be quickly rescued if some things happen. It is important for us to maintain a goal of making the Arctic's nuclear-free area, yes, we would very much like to see the Arctic totally demilitarised. This should be a strategic objective for the Kingdom community in our efforts in international cooperation. Right now, it is mainly the Russians who are militarily present in the Arctic, but also with icebreakers and large shipping transports. The new president of the United States can't really figure out what he wants with the Arctic. One day he says he wants to build an icebreaker so that you can also help pave the way for the large ships that are sailing goods. The next day he says he doesn't think they will anyway. And that means no one really knows what they really want up there. I'm sure there are American companies that have interests. I will return to Pituffik, Thule Base, in a moment. Apparently, the United States has no Arctic strategy. It is important that Denmark actively participates in the research on the Arctic. This is also mentioned in the report, not least on how to ensure the sustainable livelihood of the people and the best possible consideration of nature and, above all, of the seas, and I also believe that we need to participate very actively in research on how to ensure environmentally sound transport in the highly environmentally sensitive area. It is enormously large ships sailing there, with huge oil loads and other things, and it does not take much imagination to imagine how wrong it can go in such a cold area. It's almost impossible to clean up. If you get oil pollution in such cold areas, it is almost impossible to deal with. It is important to think about the fact that there is a much, much greater risk there. Then over to Pituffik. The United States is, of course, present in Pituffik, Thulebasen, because it is the agreement that they have the right to an agreement which I think is becoming increasingly worrying. Experience is not very positive. Now the United States has taken back the service agreement for Thulebasen, so there is no longer a Danish-Greenland company that is responsible for civil service. They did so through a shell company in Copenhagen, which has now passed the task on to a purely American company in violation of the agreements that were in place. I do not know what the Minister intends to do about it, but it is quite obvious that they have taken care of... in Denmark, as I would say if I didn't stand here. At least they've cheated Denmark. It will cost Greenland dearly in terms of lost jobs and apprenticeships and loss of tax revenue. What are we gonna do about it? Are the Americans going to pay rent up there or how are we going to solve those problems? Yes, the answer blows in the wind. The United States has also taken the shipping of goods to the base home. It was previously done by the Greenlandic Royal Arctic Line. Now it is being carried out by the American military, even if it is more expensive for the Americans. There must therefore be a political interest in performing these voyages themselves. The United States has also so far refused to clean up the old military bases in Greenland. The worst is Camp Century, where thousands of barrels of radioactive waste have been buried in the ice sheet, and there are specialists who say that we must pay close attention to the fact that, over the coming years and decades, the ice melts and that the environmentally hazardous waste thereby leaks out. Finally, the US upgrades the base's radar, likely to be part of a new missile shield with an increased risk of Greenland becoming a future bomb target. The last thing with the radar seems to have been carried out without consulting Denmark or Greenland about the appropriateness of it. That is contrary to the agreement we have with the Greenlanders. But I must admit that it seems quite striking that Denmark and Greenland may have shot themselves in the foot in this case by putting a stop to cooperation with the United States on the base of the two committees called the Joint Committee and the Permanent Committee set up in connection with the Igaliku Agreement. It's stopped. I do not understand the reason for closing such cooperation in a situation where we, Greenland and Denmark, are of course those who have the greatest interest in having an optimal dialogue on the major problems we have with the United States in Greenland. The many interfaces should be the basis for even more intense dialogue, so we use all contact options in a situation where we need to solve the problems. Then there is safety at sea, which has been mentioned, and I will end with climate and energy. It is also a very important area because people and nature... It's pretty much over time already). Is it over time? Yes, it is). Well then, I would like to conclude by saying that I would like to call for us to use the UN's 17 global goals as a guide every time we discuss the Arctic, so that we are sure that everything we do will be sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104753	Thank you. There are a few comments. Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104801	The rapporteur concludes by mentioning the World Goals, the SDGs, from the UN. I would like to hear Enhedslisten's offer of how the kingdom will act according to the SDGs in order to reach our World Goal as far as the Arctic is concerned.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104816	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104817	That is what I would have said if I had not run out of time, namely that I would call on the Foreign Minister to give us the status of what it looks like in the forthcoming statements every time. He could contact the Faroe Islands and Greenland and ask how they consider that the development has been. And then you could get a joint annual assessment from the three countries of how the SDG development looks, whether we are following the targets and how far we have come.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104852	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104854	The rapporteur mentions that the statement should be a little more visionary as far as the Arctic is concerned. What should a visionary statement look like according to Enhedslisten?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104905	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026104907	Thank you. I referred to the second statement we have received, which is a statement on the government's foreign and security policy strategy. It is built entirely differently in easy-to-read sections and is very accessible. And then there are four annexes, four rather exciting annexes, about the government's further concrete initiatives from 2017 to 2018, with priorities such as: migration, instability, terrorism and three other issues. I see that as a little bit like that, sir. Bertel Haarder called for an attempt to identify the concrete actions that will be taken in the coming period. Because it would give a much more exciting debate that we could play our ideas against the government's ideas about what will happen in the rest of 2017 and in 2018, as the security statement suggests. I think that could be really exciting, and that is why I urge you to try to find a slightly more exciting form. Maybe we could also get people outside the Castle to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105007	Then it is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105010	Thank you very much for a fine speech from the rapporteur. In relation to the UN's global goals, we also believe that inuit Ataqatigiits should have it as a linguist, that is to say to see it as a theme that we like to put into the various tasks that we have in relation to the Arctic. Now it is the case that the Foreign Minister, in cooperation with Greenland and Denmark, has called for a high level dialogue with various parties, both Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark, about what we can do to promote the UN's global goals. I think that is a very good example of how things are going well when we work together. In relation to Pituffik, mentioned by the rapporteur, namely Thule Air Base, this is a matter which has filled a great deal of foreign policy and relations with Greenland. A case which is actually at the same level in economic terms, at least in terms of Greenlandic glasses, is, in fact, the European Union's Greenland instrument. And the Greenland instrument has been evaluated here about a year ago, and in a few years' time you will have to make a new agreement. Our hope from Inuit Ataqatigiits is that the focus could be on research. How could we work together, for example? climate research, but also the conditions of the 4 million people living in the Arctic? I would like to hear Enhedslisten tell us what action the government could take to safeguard Greenland's interests in the partnership agreement that exists between the EU and Greenland, also in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105149	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105151	First of all, with the objectives of the world: it could be one of the things that could have been in the statement, that is to say that one had a concrete plan to hold a high-level meeting with the other two. It doesn't say anything about that in the memo itself. There are such things that could make it possible to say, like, that hooves, there are some concrete plans. It's not just that we sit on some committees and do some things. As far as research is concerned, there was just something on Arctic Circle. I think it was the government that had arranged it, and there were a number of specialists from Denmark who said: what can we do? And it turns out that we have a huge research capacity, which, fortunately, is already part of a work with other researchers, in Canada and elsewhere. And, of course, we need to strengthen it. The more we can strengthen it, the better. We could consider having some very independent institutes, not only here, but for example. in Greenland or in the Faroe Islands or in Iceland for that matter. For Iceland, too, is essential to be involved in this area with their very special interests in this. So I can see many opportunities for very concrete clusters of researchers working together and developing the work on Arctic research that is already across borders.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105305	Thank you. Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105308	Thank you very much to the President-in-Office. The rapporteur also mentions indigenous peoples, and from Inuit Ataqatigiits we are very much in agreement, and we would like to see indigenous peoples filling something more on Arctic Circle, but perhaps also in the focus that we have here in Parliament during the Arctic debate. It is true that it is ten years since the UN Convention on the Rights of indigenous peoples came into force and, at the same time, we also know that there are a number of ILO conventions that touch on this issue of some rights for indigenous peoples. What could be done to promote the rights of indigenous peoples, especially with Danish glasses?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105349	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105351	So, just as we can have a high-level meeting on that, you could look with Canada and others at a bigger and stronger cooperation. I was so lucky at Arctic Circle to see a new Canadian movie called "Angry Inuk". And there we had a really, really good discussion afterwards about these things and precisely about the Convention, where many people said that we have to use the 10th anniversary of the agreements to say how we can take new steps further, also so that on all Arctic issues it will be a very central issue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105433	Thank you. Then it's mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105437	Thank you. Does Enhedslisten believe that this is a viable way to bring about more sustainable development in the Arctic countries such as the United States? Greenland to accede to the proposal that Søren Espersen has made to cancel autonomy?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105457	No, I don't, and I don't see it as very serious either when Mr. Søren Espersen says so. It is only striking that a President of the Foreign Policy Name may say such things and that a prominent member of one of the major parties in the Folketing says so. It's probably because he means it. Building a democracy and building the principles of democracy is a prerequisite for the development of a society. Otherwise, we are back in a colonial era where some people over the heads of people say, "That's how it's supposed to be." And we haven't cursed good experiences with Denmark's actor in Greenland. I would like to remind you that we actually moved children in the last century in an illusion that we could take Greenlanders to Denmark and turn them into elite people who could then go back and lead the country. It ended in a disaster for those people, and I would like to ask the Danish People's Party and Søren Espersen to reconsider whether it is not democracy that is the basis for any development and that democracy and dialogue are a basis for solving all problems in Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105605	Now, sir. Søren Espersen is not present and, as I said before, there is a debate specifically on what has been mentioned a few times here. Here you go, sir. Magni Arge.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105615	Does the Enhedslisten then believe that it would be worthwhile to focus more on democracy and the right of self-determination for Arctic nations and Arctic peoples, which are not really nations, precisely in order to safeguard their interests, what can be said, in relation to the interests of established states in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105641	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105642	Thank you. I would like to take every opportunity to discuss democracy and self-determination. After all, the right to self-determination for indigenous peoples is extremely important if they are to maintain an opportunity to survive as self-employed peoples. That's why it's basic. I would like to say to the debate which, according to the President-in-Office, is coming later that it has always been Denmark's principle that the steps that have been taken jointly with the Faroe Islands and Greenland have been taken towards self-determination. And that, in fact, means now, with the new legislation, that independence can be introduced if the two countries decide to do so. And it continues to be Denmark's policy; I am convinced of that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105727	Thank you. Then there are no more questions or comments to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Henrik Dahl, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026105733	Thank you for that and thank you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the statement on cooperation in the Arctic. If something is clear after the very thorough examination of the situation in the Arctic region, it is, of course, that they are becoming more and more complex. Firstly, there is an interest struggle in which interests are playing against each other, and that battle of interest is becoming more and more marked. Secondly, there are also common interests that are becoming increasingly urgent. And what I am thinking of is, of course, the climate change that you feel more clearly in the Arctic than you notice anywhere else in the world. These are some international challenges that cannot be solved only by the five Arctic nations; these are challenges that need to be tackled widely internationally. After all, we have long since realised that it is difficult to see what a single nation state can do, but with a smaller number of states it may also be difficult, which is why it is positive that we are actively working to implement the Paris Agreement. After all, it shows all about how much benefit can be gained from solving international problems internationally. The fact that temperatures are rising is not just a challenge. It is very much, but it also opens up some opportunities. Sailing routes become viable during longer periods of summer, and sailing time is cut down on sailing between Asian and Western destinations. This, of course, creates a large number of problems with regard to the environment and safety, as has already been mentioned, which is why I naturally welcome the thorough review of the exercises and the preparedness that are taking place. When there is easier access to raw materials and easier navigability, then it leads to growth and prosperity. This leads to trade, and it is of course for the benefit of the people around us. However, the potential for conflict is also growing and it places great demands both on cooperation in the region and on the way in which the military presence is organised. After all, it is essential to enforce sovereignty in accordance with the rules laid down when there are also major players who claim the continental shelf, which is legally part of the Commonwealth. After all, we do not yet know what will happen, because we have not seen the last submissions, but in the years to come we will be very excited to follow the decisions that will come on the continental shelf. When you look at the Arctic areas, it is not just the climate issue and major geopolitical issues all. Of course it is, but there are also many other challenges. There are the challenges that indigenous peoples face across borders. There are economic and social challenges that are not unique. Everywhere in the region there are indigenous peoples who have similar problems, and that is why, of course, I am pleased to note that there is also cooperation here where we can make use of the experience they have, for example. in the United States and Canada, so that the challenges can be dealt with in the best possible way. I also note that comments are being made on the work on the UN's global goals. It will, of course, be very exciting to see in the follow-up how you will work with them in concrete terms, but it is, I think, a huge step forward at all that we have achieved the objectives of the world and that we have had the commitment to work. I was one of those who was delegated to the UN General Assembly and I can see that this is something that is being taken very, very seriously throughout the world and therefore also, of course, in the Arctic region. Since I am also a research rapporteur, I am of course also looking forward to reading about the research cooperation that is taking place and which is being strengthened. But Arctic cooperation is therefore more important than it has ever been. The challenges that exist mean that very, very great demands are being made on international solutions. I think it is also shown in the very thorough statement how it is widely worked on, and so I would like to thank the Foreign Minister once again for his very thorough statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110227	Thank you. Then there are a few brief comments. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110233	Thank you. It was just because the Liberal Alliance rapporteur said that there was potential for conflict in the Arctic. There is, of course, because when there is money to be made, there is also potential for conflict. The dispute about the continental shelf alone is, of course, a problem in itself. However, I do not agree with the rapporteur's conclusion. He said that a military presence was, of course, necessary. After all, some international agreements have just been made that all conflict in the Arctic must be resolved with international law, and all the time that there are now, I think, potentially 25 or 27 countries that believe that they have interests in the Arctic, even though only a few coastal states actually have areas there, I think it would be dangerous to go that way to say that the military should be present. I believe that we need to work for demilitarisation, so we need to do something different from what we usually do in order not to have military conflicts. We must avoid escalation and resolve conflicts with international law.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110340	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110346	I am very pleased with the comment because it gives me the opportunity to clarify exactly what I meant by my remarks. Of course, I agree with the idea that the Arctic area should be a low-voltage area, as has been suggested several times. But it is just the case that in the enforcement of sovereignty, etc., as I have mentioned, play, for example. The ships of the Navy have a certain role to play, and that is just the role, for example. The Navy is playing in the Arctic area to which I refer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110413	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110417	Well, does the Liberal Alliance rapporteur really believe that with a marine ship and two helicopters, sovereignty enforcement can take place around Greenland and, for that reason, also the Faroe Islands at the same time? What are they supposed to be able to do, in addition to observing, being available and helping in the event of civil disasters or other disasters, such as the Gulf War? natural disasters up in the area? Does the Liberal Alliance think that they should even be able to play a military role in any context?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110454	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110458	The role that you play is to observe and report what you see, and I think that is important. And although it is not a military instrument, I do believe that it is important that it is the Navy's inspection ships that are responsible for the task.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110514	Then it's Mrs. Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110522	In the UN Declaration on indigenous peoples, which was adopted in 2014, and which is also a declaration supported by the Kingdom, and where Greenland has very actively contributed to the final document, they also say, by the Greenlandic people and the Inuits, the right to sustainable whaling. When it comes to whaling, it is of course very important for us to point out that Denmark is quite right in relation to its colleagues in the European Union as regards the sustainable catch of our whales in Greenland. What is the opinion of the Liberal Alliance's rapporteur on how to tackle the problem, despite the fact that it is based on recommendations from research and analysis, so that it is emphasised that it is sustainable and good? What should we do to get the other EU Member States into our position?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110614	In other words, first of all, we must, of course, insist that this sustainability objective is met and that it is in line with the declarations that are like it. It's really important. I also think that if we look around in the Arctic area, we might find some interested parties. Because I'm familiar with the fact that, for example... Norway, which, of course, is not an EU country, but is, as it were, part of the system, is also very critical of such an extremely idealistic approach on the part of the European Union. So there are probably some alliance partners we can ally with there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110651	Mrs. Aleqa Hammond.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110655	The Arctic policy of the Danish Kingdom is coming to an end. What is Liberal Alliance's bid for a good Arctic policy for the kingdom?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110708	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110712	I do not think that we need institutions other than the institutions that we have today. I just think that the relationship between these institutions will develop and that it will develop there. What exactly will happen within the institutional framework we have is difficult for me to predict.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110731	Thank you. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026110739	Thank you very much. I would also like to start by thanking the Minister for an entirely thorough examination of the cooperation in the Arctic. I noted that the first paragraph of the statement already mentions that the temperature in the Arctic is rising well and at least twice as fast as the global average. It is also already mentioned there that sustainable development is at the heart of the Kingdom of Denmark's strategy for the Arctic until 2020. And that focus on climate change and sustainable development, we hope, of course, in the Alternative, to have an even more significant position in Denmark's efforts to strengthen international cooperation on the Arctic than it already has today. We also hope that the consequences of climate change will be more fully reflected in the government's foreign and security policy strategy and that they will not be subordinate to the pronounced focus on economic and business development that the government is calling for, but that these challenges in relation to climate and the environment will be seen to a greater extent as an overall complex of challenges for the Arctic region. Fortunately, this also seems to be the case in most of the forums where the Kingdom of Denmark participates in the cooperation in the Arctic. In the Arctic cooperation under the auspices of the Nordic Region, which expires this year, sustainable development under the headings "people's Europe', "planet', "prosperity' and "partnerships' has been in focus, and in the new programme "Partnership for the Arctic', the 17 sustainable world goals of the United Nations have a central role to play. We are also pleased to read that a substantial part of the funding in the coming programme will still be allocated to projects in the programme's open application round, because the focus on bottom-up -the development of projects is crucial in our perspective for maintaining a strong idea of democratic sustainability that respects the work of people and organisations in the Arctic. This is an angle which we would like to see further developed in the continuing Arctic cooperation. In order to maintain such a strong democratic voice and mutual respect in Arctic cooperation, it is important that we in Denmark remain even more aware of both maintaining close cooperation and close communication with, for example. Inatsisartut, when agreements are reached with other Arctic countries and actors, that is, that we do not only do so when we have to, but that we see it as a fundamental condition that we should involve those people. Both the faster temperature rise rate and the reduction of the thickness of the ice sheet and the ice sheet, the increased focus on soot pollution and pollution with organic pollutants, heavy metals and radioactivity are areas which include: Denmark's prioritization of research in and around the Arctic area allows us to address internationally. And the direction of research is, unfortunately, clear in both the climate and the environment, where research describes both the violent effects of several types of pollution, how long the pollution of the past is about disappearing and how quickly the effects of climate change become apparent in the Arctic. That is why we also believe that it is appropriate to point out to all actors in Arctic cooperation that the right of Arctic communities to develop in accordance with their own needs and interests is certainly not only about economics and business development, but that it is also very much in their own needs and interests with an up-to-date and strong climate and environmental policy. It has also been mentioned that climate change can open up opportunities, among others. future fishing and shipping, and while, of course, one should not be pale in order to grasp the possible positive effects of a sad development, the alternative again calls for the Kingdom of Denmark's approach to the negotiations on possible future agreements to ensure a strong, sustainability-focused regulation of a possible future fishery in the Arctic Ocean. In the field of health, we can read that good cooperation agreements have been concluded with, among other things: Iceland and we hope that Arctic cooperation will focus even more on preventive work and on the impact of social problems on health. The direct social measures are not the focus of this statement, but we hope in the alternative that there will also be closer cooperation on social issues in the Arctic cooperation forums. The Kingdom of Denmark has been and is a core player in Arctic research collaborations, and we are pleased that data sharing and openness in education and research were also on the Arctic Circle programme, so it was not all about profit maximization, as Mr. Christian Juhl otherwise also saw part of at Arctic Circle earlier in October. The better international access to the good research results of Arctic cooperation, the more scientific focus will be on the results of the research. Unfortunately, it is impossible to read from the statement that there is a great deal of focus on education, except that it is one of the main priorities of the Finnish Presidency of the Arctic Council. But perhaps the Minister could elaborate on how education will be given priority in future Arctic cooperation. We also very much hope that, in the context of the continued focus on education and research in the Arctic, the government will follow up on the recommendations of DTU Space's report on satellites and drones in the Arctic as both a positive contribution to the Kingdom's task solution and also as a possible driver for growth and value creation. Perhaps a greater focus on these new technologies could help to carry out environmental studies and perhaps also mappings much faster and cheaper than today. And that's what it sounds like to be needed. So there are many positive points of cooperation on many fronts in the Arctic, but on a dark background of the violent effects of climate change, which we hope the government will take seriously.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026111409	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no comments. Then it is Mrs Marlene Borst Hansen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026111435	I am very sorry, on behalf of the radical rapporteur, that he cannot be here in the Chamber. He is in defence negotiations, so I have promised to read out his rapporteur's speech. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his statement, which makes it crystal clear once again that the Arctic is becoming increasingly important in terms of climate, security, economic and research terms, both for the Kingdom community and for all actors outside the Arctic region. On the radical side, we have three lines of sight in our Arctic vision. We want a close and offensive collaboration with Greenland and also the Faroe Islands on the Kingdom's strategy to meet both challenges and potentials in the Arctic. We want the kingdom of Denmark as the only nation in the world that is a member of both Arctic Five, the EU and NATO, to build up the world's greatest competence in relation to the Arctic, both when it comes to people, the environment, the economy and the climate. We want Denmark, under the auspices of the Ilulissat Declaration and the work of the Arctic Council, to be an offensive and driving force in the development, management and regulation of the Arctic region. For all these reasons, it is also regrettable that in a number of areas the Government has not given due priority to the Arctic. Here is the survey of charts, which were sadly put back when the government insisted on moving the task, but failed to get the employees involved. We are thinking of the government's defence policy initiative, which does not provide for any further funding for the Arctic beyond those which we have agreed on. Here we will work radically to also provide additional funds to get Greenlandic society and Greenlanders in particular more involved in civilian preparedness in Greenland and also to strengthen Arctic Command with as much Greenlandic participation as possible. In other areas it is not quite clear what the government is actually working for, so here we hope that the Minister will have the opportunity to answer some questions, and since the rapporteur could not be here today, it would be good for us if it were written. However, I would just like to read the questions. The report mentions the Maritime Cooperation Task Force in the Arctic set up under the US Presidency and can be seen in the context of the many discussions over environmental protection of all or parts of the Arctic and the Arctic marine environment in recent years. The focus of the discussions is on strengthening the coordination of marine cooperation and its practical implementation. But what is the government's position on these negotiations? Does Denmark work actively to establish such a protected area of the Arctic or Arctic marine environment? We would also like to ask the same question when it comes to the declaration on possible future fishing in the high seas of the Arctic Ocean. What is the status, and what are Denmark and the kingdom working for? Finally, the Minister very rightly mentions Denmark's unique position in research in and around the Arctic. Here lies a huge potential for Denmark and Greenland, which could at the same time make a big difference to the world's climate action. Is the government going to follow up with additional funding for this research effort in the various ministries involved when the funds are running out? Has consideration also been given to taking the lead under the auspices of the Nordic Council or the European Union in order to attract other countries' research funds to Greenland in particular? I guess we've never had a better chance of establishing the world's leading Arctic research centre, which could create jobs in Greenland as well as invaluable knowledge in the area. The Arctic has such enormous potentials for all of us... all parts of the Kingdom community, all parties. That is why the Radical Left will conclude with a call to all of us: let us stand firm together to implement the strategy we have already adopted, and let us work already now to raise the level of ambition in the strategy we are going to draw up in the post 2020 period. We have everything to win.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026111921	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026111929	The Danish Kingdom, Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Greenland submitted their submission to the Convention on the Law of the Sea concerning the cap requirement. The Kingdom has a overlap with Russia and Norway. It must be defended in the form of research and with analysis and further engagement in the Arctic region in order to make our demands as a kingdom stronger. As the rapporteur has said, the issue of defence as far as the Arctic is concerned does not point to any more funds. What is the Radical Left's suggestion of how we can make the demand stronger if no more funds are allocated in this area?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112013	As I said, I am not the rapporteur in this area, but I have been allowed to read the rapporteur's speech. So the more specific questions about what lies behind the wordings that I read from the speech, I have to ask the questioner to put to the radical rapporteur in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112034	Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112038	I would like to respect that, and that is why I shall confine myself to asking a more general question: what is the rapporteur's position on the increasing militarisation of the area? There are also some in this Chamber who believe that this is necessary because there may be conflicts. At the moment it is Russia that is the all-dominant party in the Arctic, and it is both with nuclear weapons and large military installations. Does the rapporteur think that militarisation of the Arctic is necessary in order to resolve the conflicts that will arise in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112114	I do not feel able to give a specific account of the radical attitude in this area, so I would also ask Mr Van der Klaauw to do so. Christian Juhl to put the question to the radical rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112125	Thank you. There is no rapporteur from the SF or the Conservative People's Party, it seems. Well, then it's the Secretary of State. I'm sorry! There are three other rapporteurs, I see. It's fine. Here you go, Mrs. Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026112203	Thank you very much. Over the past decade, the Arctic has become a major factor in foreign policy which cannot be escaped on the international stage. Internally within the Kingdom of Denmark, our Arctic focus is also going through a development, and new political pointers such as the Kingdom of Denmark's strategy for the Arctic 2011-2020, the Strategy for Research and Education on the Arctic and the Arctic Defence Analysis, which aims to provide a clear framework for future cooperation in the Arctic, are some of the concrete examples of an increased focus on the Arctic. In the government's recently launched foreign and security policy strategy, the Arctic has also been selected as one of the five foreign policy themes for 2017 and 2018. And here in the Danish Parliament an Arctic Working Group has been set up on the initiative of Inuit Ataqatigiit. If we want to influence the international Arctic agenda, it requires us to be proactive and to cooperate. Cooperation requires close coordination and respect for existing agreements. Over the last ten years, we have signed a large number of agreements, declarations and laws across the Kingdom community to ensure equal cooperation in the field of foreign and security policy. The Igaliku Agreement, the Itilleq Agreement, the Powers of Power and the Self-Government Act are all designed to ensure much more equal cooperation in international and foreign policy matters. Despite these otherwise very clear guidelines, however, we still find that Greenland is not always involved in matters relating to Greenland and the Arctic. And especially in the field of defence, we would like to see more equal involvement on the part of Inuit Ataqatigiits as regards decisions on future defence in the Arctic. It is also important to bear in mind in the Arctic Council that, by virtue of the authorisation system and the subsequent self-government law, the autonomy has the right to represent Greenland internationally on domestic matters. I am therefore also pleased that the Prime Minister announced, before the summer recess, an evaluation of the authorisation system. Arctic Circle, which has already been mentioned a few times here today, has over the last five years grown bigger and bigger to be the largest Arctic conference. The Arctic and Greenland are mentioned in almost every second sentence of the conference, and this year, for the first time, a Danish minister together with 40 representatives of Greenland attended 2,000 participants from 50 countries. In connection with the Arctic Circle Conference, I also met Arctic parliamentarians in Iceland on the Committee for Arctic parliamentarians. As a representative of the entire Parliament of the Arctic Committee, I found it particularly interesting that Russia has chosen to invest a greater billions in improving the possibilities of sailing the route north of Russia through the straits between the United States and Canada. This is interesting both for Greenland and for the Kingdom Community, as we should look at whether there are some opportunities along the way in relation to a logistics hub. At the Arctic Circle conference, a Chinese representative also announced that China wants to set up a research station in Greenland to strengthen research in the Arctic. We welcome the trend towards increased international research in Greenland, but the research must support and benefit Greenlandic society and the new knowledge must be anchored locally. At Inuit Ataqatigiit we believe that strengthening and greater coordination of research in Greenland helps strengthen the whole of society. We already have a lot of knowledge in Greenlandic society, but the link between research institutions, society and companies needs to be strengthened much more. The Arctic research is to be of benefit in the Arctic. The creation of an Arctic research hub in Greenland will help to strengthen the level of knowledge, and ideally such a hub will also help to strengthen the relationship between research and innovation and business. The level of education in Greenland has been increasing over the past many years, and in Inuit Ataqatigiit we believe that training together with business development is essential for a strong and economically sustainable society. We would like more people to get an education and we would like to see a greater increase in the level of education in the future. Research has grown steadily over the years in Greenland. We have more and more people with a PhD background, and we also have a larger group that is taking care of a PhD. If we turn this into something that can be used for research that can benefit society, and if we get it passed on, it will help us learn more about society's challenges and possible solutions, and it will provide us with tools to exploit the potential that is in Greenland. In Inuit Ataqatigiit we again call on the government to continue its support for UArctic, that is to say for the university cooperation that is because we want Arctic research to take place in the Arctic, but also in close cooperation with other universities around the world and especially in the Arctic. The European Union has also shown interest in the Arctic over the last few years. Among other things: the EU has applied for observer status in the Arctic Council, and a short time ago the EU Greenland Instrument was mid-termised. The instrument helps to secure 250 million. kr. annual to strengthen training efforts in Greenland. This is a much needed boost, because if there is something we need in Greenland, it is even stronger primary schools that can give our children the right educational start. By 2020, the European Union's Greenland Instrument will expire and it is obvious that the continuation of the Greenland Instrument will focus on cooperation with, among others. The EU to strengthen research in Greenland and establish an Arctic research hub in Greenland. This calls for coordinated action between the government and the State of Namibia, which should be strengthened now, not least in the light of Brexit, which has consequences both for the European Union and also for the so-called OCTs countries, where 9 out of the 27 OCTs countries are withdrawn from the EU with Brexit. The UN's global goals must help create a better world, and the UN's global goals also apply to the Arctic. The government has formulated an action plan for Denmark's contribution to the UN's global goals, and an investment fund, an SDG fund, has been established which targets the 17 sustainable development goals. With regard to Objective 5 (a) and (b) of the Structural Funds, the Commission has decided not to raise any objection to the granting of aid under Objective 5 (b) of the Structural Funds. 16 on peace, justice and strong institutions, Denmark also has a large number of obligations regarding the lifting of justice in Greenland. The UN's global goals are also about the climate and the man-made changes that we have caused the climate. On the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we believe that we should help to reduce the climate's negative influences in the Arctic. Research shows that although we live up to the Paris Agreement, climate change will continue to have consequences up to 2050. It is frightening in a world where even a great power such as the United States denies climate change, but at the same time is historically affected by natural disasters. The temperature in the Arctic is rising at double speed compared to the rest of the world. But what happens in the Arctic doesn't just stay in the Arctic. The melting of the ice sheet contributes to the creation of 7%. of the total sea rise in the world. On the other hand, it can also be said that environmental fraud, for example. plastic in the sea from the other end of the world also affects us in Greenland and in the Arctic. Global challenges require us to address them globally and in solidarity. Climate adaptation is also about preparing and adapting to the climate as there is. It is also about predicting what changes are in the climate and in the weather. And DMI and GEUS have among other things. produced a large number of reports, also in Greenland, which predicts the development of the climate up to 2100. At the same time, we must also recognise that there is a need for increased emergency response in Greenland. We saw a natural disaster in North Greenland earlier this year, and it is important that we do what we can to ensure both better preparedness and better emergency response. In September, Inuit Ataqatigiit launched the first defence policy initiative with 10 concrete targets for a safer Arctic. Unfortunately, we see that the Arctic fills fairly little in the government's new defence policy initiative, and if it were up to us, we would like to see the involvement of the Greenlandic people in the defence process significantly increased. Several from Greenland must be involved and trained in order to contribute to the preparedness and the defence's task solution. Specifically, we propose that the Defence should set up a civil defence training programme in Greenland, where young people from all over the country can train themselves in the Arctic conditions in which they will later have to work. In this way, we could also help to strengthen volunteering in close dialogue with the Greenlandic authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113238	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Magni Arge with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113247	I'm gonna drop out. That won't be necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113251	Then we'll take sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, instead.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113256	Thank you. There is a research cooperation called Uarctic. Could the rapporteur elaborate on the areas in which the research cooperation that works could benefit from being located in the Arctic, for example? in Greenland?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113307	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113312	Thank you very much to the rapporteur for that question. I have been in dialogue with the University of Greenland, Ilisimatusarfik, which says that they are increasingly pleased with the cooperation in UArctic, the University of the Arctic. And what I personally find most interesting is how we can ensure greater mobility in the Arctic in relation to students, but also in relation to researchers. How can we ensure that researchers from Arctic universities in e.g. The United States or Russia can also come to Greenland and help teach some of the Greenlandic students? And vice versa, how can we get Greenlandic students out elsewhere in the Arctic to learn more about the community that is after all in the Arctic?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113357	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113400	Fine. Another issue is the militarisation of the Arctic. The rapporteur mentioned that Greenland wants more Greenlanders to be part of the defence. I can understand that. But is it an advantage that we see an increased militarisation of the Arctic in this time, based on some illusion that the military can help resolve conflicts?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113425	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113430	So, first of all, with regard to education, on which the rapporteur's first question was concerned, we are worried that the government's support for UArctic seems to lapse with the draft budget that we have before us. So we look at this with great concern. In relation to the military and defence, we do not necessarily see an increase in militarisation in the Arctic. Fortunately, we see that the diplomatic efforts that are being made, both from Greenland and from Denmark, have a positive effect, and we must continue to focus on this, i.e. a peaceful Arctic and an Arctic where we can work together. Our focus in Inuit Ataqatigiit is on the civilian tasks. There are a large number of social tasks that are already being dealt with today. That's everything from, for example. an icebreaker, who ensures that supplies can enter a settlement, for other specific tasks.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113524	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026113536	Thank you very much. We are an Arctic people, Inuit, we have lived thousands of years in the Arctic. We live and have always lived by reading nature, a way of life that is today challenged in many ways by globalisation and outside influence. Never has there been so much international focus on the Arctic as there is now. Never has Greenland been more important to the outside world, and never has Greenland been more important to Denmark. All the countries of the world are designing their Arctic policies, and many countries both large and small want observer status in the Arctic Council. All the countries of the world want to take part in the Arctic world and the Arctic debate. The Arctic is a hot topic, and we're in the middle of it. To be allowed to grow up in Greenland with its own parliament and government has been very important to me, a place where we take home responsibilities and make our own laws that are adapted to us, and that is the best thing that has happened in recent times. The best thing we can experience in this historic time is to be allowed to mark the political course of the coming generation towards independence. A time we have used to learn from our own experiences, created our own history, met our own challenges, made our own mistakes and also made our own successes. We have set our targets and our tracks on newly fallen snow, and we are moving in a new terrain where no one has previously been. A Greenland that the people themselves create and lead. Yes, we face our problems and struggle with them, and we create our own successes, and we stand together over them. Greenland is 20%. of the Arctic. Greenland is on everyone's lips. The international arena talks about Greenland and the new Arctic, which is opening up to the world. International climate research talks about Greenland because of the melting of the ice sheet. The international companies are talking about Greenland because of the possible investments and raw materials. The international trading arena talks about Greenland because of the new shipping routes that come when the North Pole is ice-free in the summer. The Arctic faces major challenges in terms of climate change, but it certainly also faces major challenges in terms of the new opportunities it brings with it. Arctic Five signed the Ilulissat Declaration in 2008 in which the coastal states agreed that the differences that may arise in the Arctic should be resolved on the basis of international law and the Law of the Sea Convention on the Law of the Sea should be respected. The Ilulissat Declaration is today the foundation for maintaining the Arctic as a low-voltage area. The Arctic Council is the central forum for Arctic relations. Environmental protection, climate, health, maritime cooperation and sustainable economic development in the Arctic are the focal points of the eight Arctic states that are in close dialogue with representatives of the region's indigenous peoples. There have been several observer states and several organisations since the Arctic Council was established back in Ottawa in 1996. The next Finnish Presidency, which covers the period 2017-2019, has the headlines education, meteorology, environmental protection and connectivity. 2019 will be the year when there will be a long-term strategic plan for the work of the Arctic Council. Inuit has a strong voice in our joint approach to the Arctic Council in the form of organisations and at ministerial level. Greenland's very active and ambitious work under Inuit Circumpolar Councel has over the years helped to put the agenda on the priorities that the Arctic Council has today, also within the EU, to which the individual Member States of the Arctic Council have dealt. The UN Declaration on indigenous peoples, which Greenland very actively contributed to, resulted in a final document at the World Conference on indigenous peoples back in 2014. The EU's rights-based approach to development should be the main tool of the EU's external action to integrate support for indigenous peoples into the EU's implementation of the 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda. May this also apply to common understanding during future IWC whale quota negotiations, where the Kingdom today is different from the rest of the EU countries. The United Nations World Goal, the SDGs, is an area in which all Arctic states have the opportunity to redefine their approach to our joint research as well as education in sustainable development with the new opportunities in the Arctic, and not least the opportunities that climate change brings with it. The Kingdom's sub-submission on the continental shelf north of Greenland awaits treatment by the United Nations Commission on the Continental Shelf, together with the other sub-submissions. Overlap with the submission areas of the Kingdom of Denmark and Norway and Russia is available. It is important that the Kingdom of Denmark has at all times the necessary research and mapping of data to support the submission. The Ilulissat Declaration is an important instrument in this process, with emphasis on dialogue and direct negotiations between all relevant States, including Russia, on behalf of the Kingdom. This applies both to technical geoprofessional questions and to questions relating to the definition of overlapping socket requirements. Our joint efforts will have a major economic and geopolitical impact on generations in the future. The Arctic statement does not highlight the future challenges facing us as a Kingdom community. The presence of the Americans in Greenland and not least the enormous environmental pollution caused by their presence are not mentioned in a word in the Foreign Minister's statement on the Arctic, a statement which is otherwise based on the values of sustainability, Arctic monitoring, environmental control and health. This gives rise to surprises. Isn't Camp Century important enough to take part in the Arctic statement, the worst pollution in the Arctic part of the kingdom in history? Greenland has for many years approached Denmark to bring to the attention of the government the enormous environmental pollution that the Americans have left behind in Greenland, unfortunately, without any particular interest on the Danish side. The former Naalakkersuisoq for Foreign Affairs, Vittus Qujaukitsoq, sent a complaint to the UN, complaining that Denmark is violating the rights of indigenous peoples, a complaint that Naalakkersuisoq later withdrew, a complaint that, according to the UN, cannot just be revoked. It must go through the system and a conclusion must be reached. Shortly after the complaint had been sent, the Danish Government was willing to find a solution to uncover the pollution and allocate funds to clean up. Camp Century is just one of the many areas in Greenland where the Americans have left behind a significant environmental damage. The Minister for the Environment and Food visited Ikateq in East Greenland last year and then a abandoned base with very environmentally dangerous material that had just been allowed to lie and float since 1947. Fuel, asbestos, heavy metals and, according to some U.S. sources, also out-toned explosives. At that time, the Minister said that Greenland should not be the dustbin of the world. But things are still there. Fortunately, the problem is getting more and more international attention to our advantage. Greenland lost the service contract for Thule Air Base. Greenland's benefit from the presence of the Americans may lie in a very small place. I would like to see a relationship between Denmark and Greenland based on the unique communities we have, also as regards the agreements Denmark has with other countries and which are important for Greenland and the Greenlandic people. It deserves the Kingdom community, everything else is unacceptable. Our Arctic world is very vulnerable. We have a voice on the part of the Kingdom Community in the Arctic Council. I see a potential conflict in relation to the fact that we are merely speaking with a voice in the Arctic Council, the issue of the lack of interest in ensuring the clean-up of the current and former US military installations is still housing. The Arctic Council has special focus on sustainability, the environment, monitoring of fauna and flora and safety on land and at sea. It would suit the Kingdom community if, in addition to the declarations, we also took action to ensure a clean environment, including Denmark's own agreements with other countries and here with the Americans. The 2011 Arctic Strategy, which is about to end, has not brought any significant improvements, unfortunately. Two very important reports have been published in the time of this government, the Taksøe-Jensen report and the Arctic analysis of the defence. I am very pleased to see that the Foreign Minister considers the Community action in the Arctic to be very important. In not many years, the northern shipping route at the North Pole will be ice-free in the summer, and we will face challenges in relation to future investments, task solutions and infrastructure. A commitment where Denmark invests and more actively takes part in the task solution, we would like to have a partnership with Greenland.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114559	Thank you. There is one comment from Mr. Christian Juhl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114603	Thank you. I would like to know whether Mrs Aleqa Hammond thinks that the United States is following the Ilulissat agreement when upgrading the radar without engaging Denmark and Greenland in the decision with the risk that Greenland will become a major bomb target in a military conflict. After all, in the Ilulissat agreement, we are talking about demilitarising or at least demilitarising the Arctic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114636	The Ilulissat Declaration is not, as such, an agreement to demilitarise the Arctic in general. The Ilulissat Declaration is based on the respect by all Arctic Five countries of the Law of the Sea, the provisions of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, for a peaceful area, and on the fact that we are all united in it until otherwise determined. Having said that, all the Arctic Five countries have agreed that we are keeping the Arctic area as a non-militarised area, but also an area in which each of us respects the Convention on the Law of the Sea. It is the best document we have today that binds us together in terms of being able to stand together about what is going to happen in the Arctic Ocean. But I still want to say that demilitarisation itself is under discussion among all of us. The fact that there is a military presence does not mean that there is militarisation, but that there is a focus on preparedness and the like, which Greenland generally also supports. So I think it is incredibly important to see what kind of presence we have from the military and the defence. What else is that for? We all have to step in there.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114756	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114759	I understand that when it comes to defence ships and the sort of things that have more functions and that in practice are practically always of civil value. However, in cases where there is a military radar, where the United States is increasingly shutting itself down and excluding Greenlandic workers in particular, but also Greenlandic companies in relation to its operation, I would like to know if the rapporteur does not think it looks as if the United States is saying that we are deciding here; no one else should interfere in that area. And in this way they help to exclude a joint discussion on how to manage low-voltage purposes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114844	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114847	I believe that with regard to Pituffik and the presence of the Americans in Greenland, it is more in the lack of openness that we experience between Greenland and Denmark. What has Denmark allowed the Americans to do and not allowed them to do? This is true in terms of defence, but certainly also in terms of pollution. I think so much has been mystified in relation to the presence of the Americans in Greenland. Greenland is calling for an open dialogue and open debate and openness about the presence of the Americans in Greenland, not only in terms of political influence, but also in terms of economic gain.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114920	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more comments. Then it's mr. Sjúrður Skaale. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026114931	Thank you for that, and thank you to my colleague Magni Arge for coming in front of the queue. I'm going to another meeting this afternoon. An Arctic great power is what the Kingdom community is according to the much-mentioned Taksøe-Jensen report. However, it would perhaps be more appropriate to say that the kingdom community can become It shows how important Greenland and then the Faroe Islands are for Denmark's position and weight in the world. It also shows how dependent Denmark's foreign policy is on good conditions and strong cohesion in the Kingdom community, because of course we also have a very great common interest, which we can care for. In the Arctic, a plus one plus one can clearly provide more than three if Greenland's vast area and the Faroe Islands' location in the middle of one of the most important shipping routes in the future and Denmark's much greater diplomatic and economic strength are jointly exploited. However, this obviously requires a strategy supported by concrete measures and investments. As far as the strategy is concerned, it's there. In the foreign and security policy strategy, the government speaks of strengthening the Kingdom's Arctic profile, of a stronger and more consistent impact on Arctic development, of a strengthened dialogue among the relevant actors in the Kingdom community, and of addressing security policy challenges as well as of an annual Arctic dialogue on the efforts of the Kingdom in the Arctic. It's all very fine. The Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Arctic account of 2017-18 states that special attention is given to economic development for the benefit of the people of Greenland and the Faroe Islands, that economic and business development is placed more centrally on the agenda of the Arctic Council, and that opportunities will be identified to attract international investment and strengthen export promotion efforts in favour of Greenland and the Faroe Islands. These are all very fine words and intentions. But when it comes to the Arctic, which is huge, conferences are being held and books and articles are being written all over the world, and there are so many fine words, so many fine intentions that it almost feels too much sometimes. Almost two weeks ago, many of us were in Arctic Circle, Reykjavik. I was there as chairman of the Arctic Working Group here in the Things. It is a very fine opportunity to mark the interests of the kingdom in that debate, and it also offers the opportunity to learn new things. The program is packed with lectures, breakout sessions, panel discussions and sticks and coffee and sushi and cake and people who feel really good at home in this environment with sticks, and you get such a small plate with a clamp that you put on the wine glass, and then you give the others your business card with two fingers. There are some who are very well in this environment while talking about all the right things. There will be talk of strategic investments, indiginals and development, inclusive and democracy and ecological, traditional and modern, and it's all very fine, and everything is just sustainable, sustainable, sustainable, sustainable, sustainability and blah blah blah. The air is almost thick of all these words, which are so correct and good and smart that it almost feels like sitting and eating whipped cream with meringue and caramel sauce all day. There really is a danger, I think, that it could also end up as empty calories at the end. It can also be difficult to distinguish between the empty calories, between the meat, the good food, and the whipped cream. However, in the Arctic Working Group here in Things we have tried to make things as concrete as possible. In Reykjavik, our very well-visited event last time was about tourism, controlled tourism and opportunities for growth there. We have also focused on the exploitation of marine resources in the past, we have focused on shipping, and we have always done so in cooperation with various authorities and the business community, and this has actually led to concrete results, so I am pleased about that. After all, it has to do so, because the Kingdom community has a different interest than many others who have a share in what is happening in the Arctic. We do not only have a defensive interest. Many people are only defensive: we must prevent it, we must prevent it, we must protect it, and then there is climate and so on. Everything's just defensive. We also need to focus on a development that will make it more alive, that we take advantage of the opportunities for the 4 million people living in the Arctic, both in terms of exploiting the resources of the sea and in terms of generating growth in other areas. This again applies not least to telecommunications and infrastructure, etc., where we must be at the forefront of investment. Investment is, of course, the most important thing; it is what often counts most in politics; it is the figures that appear in the budget law; it is where the policy is expressed; it is where one really makes one's point of view, it is where the emphasis is on its words. So if the fine words put forward by the government in its strategies are to be followed, we must invest in research, in infrastructure, in social rescue and in defence, etc. Denmark must also, of course, acknowledge first of all that Denmark and Greenland and Greenland in particular are the Arctic parts of the Commonwealth and must be involved in everything. That is why I recently asked the Minister for Defence about defence plans in and around the Faroe Islands in view of the very increased defence expenditure. Reading the answers I got this week was almost like eating such a cream cake of words. It stated that efforts would be stepped up in general, that a new conciliation would be negotiated and that it was too early to say what concrete initiatives could be agreed on and, among other things, that it would be too early to say what concrete initiatives could be agreed upon. It didn't say anything! That cannot be right, because of course there is more than that. I would therefore urge the Faroe Islands authorities to be involved in the plans as soon as possible. Denmark must never do anything about the Faroe Islands bypassing the Faroe Islands. We have experience of staying away from this. I will conclude by saying that a field in which the fine strategies are in the process of being translated into action is in the area of satellite monitoring and telecommunications in the Arctic. After all, stationary satellites cannot be seen high to the north, which means that telecommunications is both expensive and unreliable. Both the Taksøe-Jensen report and the Ministry of Defence's report recommended that the possibility of public-private cooperation to establish broadband coverage in the high-Arctic area be explored. On the basis of a proposal prepared by DTU DTU Space, as they are called, a working group under the direction of the Director of Tele Post in Greenland, Siminn in Iceland, Føroya Tele in the Faroe Islands, Defense and DTU Space examined the possibility of establishing a satellite system to solve the problem. The result is a proposal that two plus two satellites be launched and operated jointly by all the parties involved. The idea is that communication with the satellites should take place through two ground stations located in Greenland and Iceland, while mission control should take place from the Faroe Islands. Market analyses have also been carried out which indicate that a company could become profitable if it had an investment of approx. 1 billion DKK 200 million of which kr. in share capital, as well as operating costs of approx. 20 million kr. The project has since been continuously followed by a follow-up group led by the Deputy Chief of Defence and with the directors of the companies involved, as I mentioned, as members as well. I think it is a very positive project. The parties have agreed to decide to proceed with the examination of technology, the market and the establishment of the company and, of course, the possibilities for financing. If everything gets settled and the decision is made in 2018, the satellites can be launched in 2021. I think it is excellent that such cooperation between the various parties has been established. After all, the need is great for everyone, not only for the Kingdom community, but for a great many countries, and therefore there is an opportunity here that we can really give ourselves a very central role in the Arctic in the future. I would therefore ask the government to support this project as far as possible, both politically and economically. This is a much-needed example of the practicalisation of political strategies, and it is something that can, on a very concrete basis, strengthen dialogue and cooperation and respect between those parties which must, of course, be very close together in order to achieve synergy. In general, let us ensure that Greenland, Denmark and the Faroe Islands become more than three, and in this specific case let us ensure that Iceland, Greenland, the Faroe Islands and Denmark become more than four. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026115901	Thank you to the rapporteur. Sir. Christian Juhl has a brief comment to make, and when the rapporteur is finished, the call will be made for lunch break until 8 a.m. 13.00. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026115907	Well, then we'd better tighten up and make it short. The rapporteur said that there is a lot of talk about defensive interests in the Arctic. I think there is a great deal of commercial pursuit of opportunities for profit and business opportunities and, of course, participation quickly learns the right language, which one must speak to also remember that one will of course make it sustainable. I am almost calling for forces that will work defensively, and I do not understand why the rapporteur is tone down the defensive. Is it defensive to prevent pollution? He says it's more about preventing some things. For example, is it... to prevent pollution of the seas, to prevent military conflicts, to prevent over-fishing by large countries or to demand that the SDG objectives be put at the centre? The prerequisite for the people living in the Arctic to have good and sustainable conditions in the future is surely that the conditions are in place and that they are precisely defensive in these areas and say: we will not accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026120023	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026120027	I understand the question very well. Maybe I didn't put it exactly. Of course it's very important. It is absolutely crucial that everything that happens is sustainable. It is absolutely crucial that we avoid military conflicts and so on. I'm just saying that unlike other players in this debate, the Commonwealth also has an interest in looking at the opportunities for growth and not just looking at what needs to be avoided, but also what can be created.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026120054	Sir. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026120058	Yes, there I feel that of course there are some with a fine facade that polishes their pursuit of profit and wants to show that they are just doing it for the sake of climate, indigenous peoples and local people, but that facade must be swept away. So you have to dry the cream from the glasses, and then you have to look for what's in the back, to see what's real interests, and then help manage it, so it's the people who live there who get a place and an opportunity to develop. That's how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026120126	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026120130	Thank you. That was more a comment than a question, and I take note of that. Thank you. And thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026120135	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then the meeting will be suspended until 8:00. 13.00.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026130000	The sitting is resumed. We shall continue the debate on the Foreign Minister's statement on cooperation in the Arctic. And the next one on the platform is sir. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026130015	I am probably not among those who expect this account about the Arctic to win any Cavling Prize, nor do I believe that it will have a great place in the history books for pioneering new thinking about Arctic politics, but it is certainly a well-intentioned attempt to legitimise Denmark's geopolitical weight in the Arctic through the so-called Kingdom Community with Greenland and the Faroe Islands. When I turn the statement through, I find many excellent references to various initiatives in the Arctic cooperation and fragments of Greenlandic and Faroese relations garnished with various declarations of intent. However, I miss flesh and blood on the strategic effort based on the ambition to create the best possible conditions for those living in the Arctic region. For in my world, it is primarily about safeguarding and developing the living conditions of people living in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. Addressing this issue also addresses the major challenges of climate change, pollution and security policy aspects, which threaten to erode human existence in several parts of the globe. On the other hand, if Arctic policy is to be adapted to the major powers and other distant stakeholders' agenda, the risk that the Arctic population will pay a high price for the interests of others is great. I do not need to remind this proud assembly of parliamentary politicians of the disaster for the Greenlandic population of prisoners as a result of the ban on the import of seal products. An entire culture was wiped out, and large incomes in both Greenland and Canada were transformed into ruin with a stroke of pen, because politicians in Europe and the United States were seduced by prominent animal protection activists who prefer to eat steaks in small portions so that they can avoid cutting the meat. But the consequences of that disaster are far greater than that, because when no one hunts seals, the population that eats large quantities of fish grows. At a hearing here in the Danish Parliament, one of Canada's top researchers reported that the stock had grown by more than 4 million seals in the waters between Greenland and Canada. They consume 15 kg of fish a day, which corresponds to a biomass of 60 million. kg/net day. Whatever the precautionary principles you put in this equation, it is a loss of huge revenue that could increase the welfare of the area if both seals and fish were used sustainably. When we know that 750 million people go to bed hungry every day, one wonders why we are not making a real effort to restore a more sensible and sustainable eco-balance in that area. But that depends on who sets the agenda and who has the power to impose the decisions that make a difference. I therefore repeat for God's sake the time when all those who sit at the table of the Arctic Council should first sign as members or observers that they accept the Arctic people's right to the sustainable use of sea resources and open their markets to the goods and products that can be produced from these raw materials. See, that would make a difference. But then we must also blow to the fight against the monstrous embargoes that both the United States and the European Union have against seal skins products. I believe that this can be done without the countries that speak up for the Arctic people having to end up in a continental corner of shame, because many users have gradually realised that sustainable development is the goal that the whole world should pursue. It is no longer just about romantic animal protection, but about putting action behind the 17 world goals for which all the countries of the world have committed themselves to fighting. Neither Greenland nor the Faroe Islands are members of the United Nations, and therefore Denmark has signed the agreement on the 2015 World Goals. I can read in the report that the global goals will be an overall theme for the work of the Sustainable Development Working Group under the Arctic Council with participation from both Greenland and the Faroe Islands. That's good, but I'm not sure that's enough. The global goals are an important focal point for the entire Arctic strategy, but the Faroe Islands' and Greenland's kick-in for example. World objective 14 on the sea should also be respected in Danish foreign policy in general. I see no reference to the International Whale Catch Commission, the IWC, in the report, but I understand that the European Union intends to vote in favour of small whales also being managed by this strange construction, which has developed into a playground for extremist animal protection attitudes. I sincerely hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made it clear to the European Union that Denmark, neither with regard to the Faroe Islands, Greenland nor Denmark, will vote for this action. We have an excellent and competent body in the North Atlantic Marine Mammal Commission which, on a scientific basis, constantly evaluates the size of stocks and the development of best practice in fishing methods and advises on other related issues. But I must also say that I am very confident that Denmark is acting sensibly in this matter, because the support for continuing a sustainable laughing catch in the Faroe Islands has been great in the Folketing and with the government. Trust is not so great when it comes to genuine participation and involvement in the security policy issues described in the 2005 Fámjin Declaration. I asked the Minister for Defence the other day whether he thought that the government had provided for genuine participation and involvement in relation to the imminent flare-up of the Danish defence and its operations in the North Atlantic. I did not get an answer to the question, but a statement which I quote here with the permission of the President: the foundations of the Arctic Agreement were drawn up in close coordination with both Greenland and the Faroe Islands. The Faroe Islands have thus helped to establish the framework for strengthening the Ministry of Defence's task solution in the North Atlantic and the Arctic. However, the Faroese Foreign Minister openly rejects that the Faroese Home Rule Government had any influence on the 2016 Arctic Agreement regarding the defence effort in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. In Denmark, people are very sensitive to breaches of agreements and regulations. I am therefore surprised that efforts are not being made to comply with the intentions of the Fámjin Declaration, but perhaps the key to the drawer in which this declaration lies has not been found in the Ministry of Defence. It was therefore good to read in Appendix 5 to the statement on the government's foreign and security policy strategy for 2017-2018 that it is intended to address the security challenges in the Arctic with the Faroe Islands and Greenland, but it is therefore now more neat declarations of intent than real will to comply with the spirit of the Fámjin Declaration. In the statement we can read about new countries and organisations that have gained observer status in the Arctic Council, and Switzerland is explicitly mentioned, while between the lines it is regretted that the EU is still standing outside the door because Russia is blocking their application. However, it is not mentioned in one word that the parliamentary cooperation body between the Faroe Islands, Greenland and Iceland, the West Nordic Council, was also among those who were granted observer status. It was a great day in my world, because we need precisely to strengthen the representation of the countries of the Arctic region and their peoples in the exclusive club, which is exerting its influence in the Arctic Council. Through the Western Nordic Council, Greenland and the Faroe Islands together with Iceland also have an independent opportunity to influence the policy and direction of the Arctic Council in the future, thereby taking sole responsibility for our own interests and priorities. I have learned in arctic fora that several population groups, either geographically or as indigenous people, feel a great need for greater recognition of their right to self-determination in the Arctic area. This brings me back to my point of departure that Arctic policy and strategy should be based to a much greater extent on the people living in the Arctic and their future welfare. Because no matter how careful other actors may be for their situation and development, it will never be equal to the energy and responsibility that people have for their own country and their own future. I have pointed out in other contexts that the form of cooperation between Denmark and the Faroe Islands has long since expired, has passed the last date of sale. We live in a globalised world with quite different challenges today than before. It is a fact that Denmark has left a large part of its sovereignty to the European Union, but it is still holding back from preserving the right of both Faroese and Greenlandic foreign policy interests. This hampers our freedom of movement and influence in Arctic and North Atlantic matters. This hampers our opportunities in trade policy contexts, and it has created and will create further internal conflicts in the future. For me it is quite natural that Greenland and the Faroe Islands each establish far-reaching foreign policy mandates, especially in the maritime and Arctic areas, but I do not deny that Denmark, through constructive cooperation with the Nordic countries, can maintain a great geopolitical influence, but this must be done on an equal basis. A sustainable and future-oriented vision, based on Greenlandic and Faroese interests, will offer our peoples far greater opportunities for growing welfare than reactionary proposals of the type brought to squares the other day to suspend Greenland's independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131121	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131125	I was very pleased to hear the rapporteur's speech, particularly concerning the sustainable use of marine resources in the North Atlantic. As far as we know, we also know from the Arctic Council that we have excellent cooperation in terms of economic development based on sustainability both at sea and on land. Having said that, the future challenge we are going to face, as the rapporteur says, are animal protection organisations which strongly disagree with our arguments on sustainability in the Arctic region, especially in the North Atlantic. We are faced with increasing opposition, and in this way it will also be harder for us to argue for our fishing methods, which have already been scientifically proven to be very sustainable fishing methods. What does the rapporteur think we should do to make our voice stronger, among other things? through Arctic cooperation with Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131235	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131236	I mean, we have more handles that we can screw on. We've got a new handle to screw on, which is about the 17 World Goals where the World Goal no. 14 is about the sea. It is based on the need to ensure both sustainable development, but at the same time to ensure that coastal states and peoples who make a great deal of living from the resources of the sea can make sustainable use of them. We should create a global understanding of this, if I may say so. I also believe that we should consider what we are doing with the IWC, the International Whaling Commission, which is a completely hopeless size, which has no understanding whatsoever of the sustainable element when it comes to the exploitation of marine mammals or marine mammals. I think it is incredibly important that Denmark listens a lot to Greenland and the Faroe Islands in this matter and actually leaves it to Greenland and the Faroe Islands to pursue the policy of the International Whaling Commission rather than leaning against the lobbyists who stand down in Brussels shouting for animal welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131340	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131342	There are some countries which believe that the quotas for laughing should fall under IWC and not under NAMMCO, with which we are actually very pleased. What do we have to do to correct this misunderstanding of which whales belong to which organizations? What should we do to make our voice stronger and to make the outside world aware that our way of hunting actually follows the IWC's own guidelines?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131418	It is as I said just now: I still believe that the work that has been started in relation to the objectives of the world. 14 on the sea and the sustainable use of marine resources are incredibly important, and it is important that we have a major influence on how those phrases will be translated into international cooperation. Therefore, it is also incredibly important that we have a very big influence on how Denmark acts in that situation. And there I think we only have one choice if Denmark does not take our arguments seriously, and that is that we ourselves stand for the policy in relation to the IWC.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131500	I would remind you quietly that if, in the short remarks, you want to come up with a follow-up question, you have to press the button again so that I can follow up here. The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131510	Thank you. After all, Mr Tjóðveldi's rapporteur explained how the European Union has played a role in fishing quotas, etc. However, if the European Union were to play a progressive and positive role in relation to people living in and around the Arctic, what are the main principles for which they should work?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131532	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131533	I would like to repeat what I have said several times before. I also mentioned it in the speech. I believe that the European Union must help to establish that the people living in the Arctic have an inalienable right to sustainable exploitation of the resources of the sea. Whether it is about fish, whether it is about whales or seals, or whether it is about minerals, as long as it is done in a sustainable way. What I see as being much more concerned in the European Union is that there are many places in the world where you do not live by what the coastal states do, that you want to preserve large areas, that you want to preserve certain species, and what I know, regardless of whether it is sustainable or not. This is linked to some kind of romantic notion that it is necessary, and no doubt it is also linked to the fact that it costs them nothing to preserve the areas on which we must live. But it gives voices in their home countries. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131638	Thank you to the rapporteurs. There are no more questions. Then I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026131647	Thank you. The Arctic is an important foreign policy priority for the government, and we have chosen to make the Arctic one of five areas of action in the government's foreign and security policy strategy for 2017 and 2018 and this underlines the clear priority that we have of the area. Today's debate has been both objective and constructive, and I would like to thank you very much for that. At the same time, the debate has also confirmed broad political support for the fact that there is, and should continue to be, a clear foreign policy strategy for the Arctic. The Kingdom is an Arctic coastal state with a great influence on the development of the region and with great interests in the region. The Kingdom Community is working closely together on the Arctic, because it is when we stand together and speak with one voice that we stand strongest. As was said here, one can really talk about one plus one plus one can give more than three. The vision of the kingdom is to create the most optimal framework for development in the region. This is a practical step, among other things. to break down barriers that may hamper development in the region, while at the same time creating understanding and respect for local people's way of life and needs. This positive vision for the development of the region requires the Arctic to remain a low-voltage area and the Kingdom is actively working for it. We are doing this by consistently promoting international cooperation aimed at addressing the specific challenges facing all the countries in the region. The Arctic Council is the main forum for cooperation. The Kingdom has established close and concrete cooperation with the new Finnish Presidency. Among other things: Greenland has just become co-chair of a task force called Task Force on Improved Connectivity in the Arctic. Among other things, the Task Force will: deal with telecommunications infrastructure, including satellites, which has also been affected by the rapporteurs.• an important area of action for the Arctic Council and a field of action which is in line with the government's priorities in the national space strategy and the political agreement on the strengthened presence of the Ministry of Defence in the Arctic. The international interest in the Arctic is great, and it is growing. That is why we in Denmark are working to strengthen the involvement of observer states such as China, India and Japan in the work of the Arctic Council. The Arctic is therefore on the agenda when I meet colleagues from, among others. These countries, like us at official level, regularly hold Arctic consultations with non-Arctic states with interests in the region. In 2016, the EU launched its Arctic Strategy in the form of a Communication on an Integrated EU Policy for the Arctic. It is positive that the focus of the communication is on those areas where the EU has a particular added value to offer through research and through a coordinated and focused use of EU funding instruments in favour of sustainable economic development for the benefit of the Arctic peoples. In 2017, the EU has among other things. Followed up with the appointment of the EU's first Arctic Ambassador. As the written statement, however boring it may be, illustrates, the Kingdom has contributed actively over the past year in relation to a number of issues currently on the Arctic agenda. In the field of research and education, we have been focusing in recent years on creating a better framework for increased dialogue between the relevant research institutions in the Kingdom Community. Research in the Arctic is expensive and difficult. We therefore wish to continue to strengthen cooperation across Danish institutions within the Danish community in order to optimise the use of research resources. In May, together with my colleagues from Greenland and the Faroe Islands, on behalf of the Kingdom, I signed a legally binding agreement on strengthened research cooperation in the Arctic and on the Arctic. The agreement offers promising opportunities for the rich community's research institutions, which have shown themselves strongly internationally in the field of research in the area. Following the analysis of the presence of the Ministry of Defence in the Arctic, a political agreement was reached with the Social Democratic Party, the Danish People's Party and the Radical Left at the end of 2016. Implementation will run over the next few years and will not only strengthen sovereignty enforcement, it will also strengthen the performance of important civilian tasks such as search and rescue services, marine environmental protection and support for civil society. Some more specific questions were asked, and I would like to try to give an answer to them in the first place, for example. about what I was just talking about here in relation to the Department of Defense's assignments in the Arctic. The agreement points to the strengthening of monitoring, command and control, communication and operational intervention units. Strengthening these areas will thus help to strengthen the resolution of several tasks at one and the same time, including the enforcement of sovereignty, search and rescue services, which were affected by the Socialist rapporteur, and the marine environment and support for civil society. The Government has proposed to continue the Arctic Agreement in the forthcoming defence settlement. In relation to a deepening of this issue, I would like to refer to the Minister for Defence. In relation to Camp Century, which has also been asked about, it is the case that the objectives of the statement we have been talking about today are to focus on the broad agenda for the Arctic and on the areas that the Kingdom Community wishes to prioritise nationally and, above all, internationally. The fact that a given subject has not been specifically addressed or dealt with in the statement does not mean that the subject is not important or that we do not spend time and effort on solving the challenges. We are very much doing so, and of course the rapporteurs are also aware of this. The Prime Minister's annual statement to the Danish Parliament on the Kingdom Community covers the issues not covered by the specific Arctic agenda. Furthermore, the Arctic initiatives specifically included in the government's foreign and security policy strategy could be addressed in the separate discussion on the USS. The government takes the case of Camp Century extremely seriously, and this is also reflected in the government base. We have also launched a series of initiatives in agreement with the national government, a number of concrete things which include initiatives such as: monitoring of the melting of ice in the Camp Century area and an environmental mapping of the abandoned waste. New measurements and estimates of radioactivity will also be made at Camp Century. In addition, I have initiated a legal investigation into the possibility of imposing on the United States an international responsibility for cleaning up Camp Century. I should also like to mention that at the last Council meeting it was decided to spend 150 million. kr. to clean up after other former U.S. bases, again in close cooperation with the Greenlandic authorities. In relation to the service contract at Thulebasen, as you know, negotiations are being held between the Kingdom and the United States. These are important negotiations for both Greenland and Denmark, and we have a common desire to find a satisfactory solution as soon as possible. At the same time, it is also a complex case which has been the subject of a lengthy trial in the United States. It is vital that we continue to cooperate closely in the Kingdom and speak with one voice to the United States. The government works within the framework of the Danish Parliament's adoption from 2015 and this means that we work to ensure that the service contractor at Thulebasen is Danish-Greenlandic, that Greenland gets as much return as possible from the American military presence in Greenland, for example. in the form of apprenticeships, employment and tax revenues, and that there can be no doubt in the future about the criteria for the award of the contract. In relation to the upgrading of radar, which has also been affected during today's debate, I am not aware of a changed threat to Greenland or the kingdom as a whole as a result of the changes at Thulebasen. I understand that there has been concern as to whether the upgrading has an impact on the threat to Greenland. Therefore, the defense was asked to confirm the threat assessment and they state that the threat to Thuleradar and Greenland is directly linked to the threat of an attack on the United States and that the Ministry of Defence has no information to support a modified threat picture. I'll see if I've gotten around it all. Yes, I think I will end with one thing, and this is about the SDGs, which have also been affected. How are we going to follow up on that? I think it is a good thing that we can all look forward to the SDGs being a theme for the international conference, which will be held on 1 December, which I, together with Greenlandic and Faroese colleagues, host and which I know has also been sent out to. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026132818	Thank you, Minister. There are a number of brief comments, and the first questioner is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026132824	Thank you very much to the President and many thanks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his comments. As the Foreign Minister notes, this task force on Improvement of Connectivity has been set up, where Greenland is also co-chaired, and we think it is very positive that this focus on satellites and activities in space. Because even though it may seem very abstract, it actually also helps to secure both the Internet, but also a better preparedness around Greenland. It is also beneficial for the defence and the opportunities to share information and to share photos, but also to find people who have been lost, something easier, by strengthening the Internet in Greenland. So that's really, really positive. Now I also know that Tele-Post, which is Greenland's telecommunications company, has a strategy to strengthen the Internet in 92 per cent. of the area around Greenland, but this also means that there are 8 per cent. of Greenland and 8 per cent. of the population who do not gain access to the Internet. I find this worrying in terms of preparedness, and I think it would be interesting to look at what opportunities there are in the multiuse of satellites in relation to both civil use and the use of defence.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026132949	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026132950	I take it mostly as a comment; there was not so much a question in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026132958	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133000	Thank you very much. I do not quite know whether I should see it as taking note or as saying the same thing. I think that might be interesting just to clarify. In relation to environmental clean-up after previous military activities around Greenland, this agreement has been made between the government and Naalaksuisut, where 150 million have been allocated. kr. However, I also think it is appropriate to mention that the government has set aside 30 million in its own proposal for the defence settlement. kr. to strengthen it here, recognizing that it is 30 areas and that it can be more expensive than these 150 million. kr., which the government originally set aside for this task. After all, this is something that we from Inuit Ataqatigiits have worked for and that we are really glad to see succeeding now.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133049	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133050	The optimum and what must be the target is, of course, a 100 per cent coverage, and it goes without saying that it must be a joint effort to get there one way or the other. It is a very good tool to get a 100 per cent coverage in order to ensure the possibility of living in areas where it may otherwise be difficult to find both employment and the way forward. So, of course, I think it is important to focus on this, while at the same time welcoming the opportunities that are constantly being created by technological developments. Yes, it is also right, as has been pointed out in connection with the proposal that has been made, to a future defence settlement that there is a focus on clean-up, and I think that we should welcome this together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133146	The next question is Mrs Aleqa Hammond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133149	Thank you very much. Arctic Circle is the largest conference on Arctic issues worldwide and takes place in Iceland every October. I've been to all the conferences, and this year it was the fifth time. All the world's countries and decision-makers, businessmen and other good people meet there to exchange ideas and policies and many other good things. So far, I have never seen the Danish Minister responsible for the Arctic at the conference, so I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether in future we will see a minister responsible for Arctic cooperation at this conference. In that case, I would also like to ask whether the Foreign Minister is aware of the agendas for these major and important conferences.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133250	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133251	In the course of the debate, I have received a vivid description of this conference. I agree that all the places where you meet and discuss these things are relevant to look at whether it is possible that there may also be ministerial participation on the part of the government. So I'll take it back with me and see if it's possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133318	Is there a follow-up question? So just remember to press. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133324	The Danish Kingdom is 20%. of the entire Arctic, so I would regard it as absolutely relevant that we are here to hear about the politically important issues that we are dealing with at a time when everyone's eyes are on the Arctic and the Arctic Ocean. So I would just kindly urge the Minister to take an active part in this development.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133350	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133351	It's noted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133355	The next question is Mr. Magni Arge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133357	Thank you. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister how it affects Denmark's position in the IWC that the Council of Europe has decided that small whales should now be placed under the IWC resort area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133416	I would like to come back there with a written reply with a concrete assessment. However, I would just like to say that I am aware of the issues raised by the rapporteur in relation to the importance of finding the right balance in the debate on fishing opportunities. It is true that the key word is sustainability. It is of course also on the part of the questioner, it is like the word that has to be repeated, and it is clear that there is a large and ongoing discussion, where there are some extremes that are far apart, in the assessment of exactly where the balance point is. We all know that. This has also been pointed out by the rapporteur today, and it is, of course, also essential to include it in the future discussion of this issue. I believe, of course, that we have an obligation on the part of the Kingdom to take great account of the conditions that are both in Greenland and in the Faroe Islands, and I believe that there is an increasing understanding of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133524	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133526	If what has happened before, namely that Denmark is following the EU's position rather than taking a position on the basis of what the Faroe Islands and Greenland consider to be the most sensible to take a position, does the Foreign Minister believe that Denmark is prepared to give up some of its foreign policy competences so that the Faroe Islands and Greenland will have the opportunity to defend their interests properly?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133555	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133556	I do not think this is the right place to conclude on that. I believe that the right way to deal with this is still within the framework that we know today. That is where we have the greatest opportunity to exercise the right influence together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133613	The next question is Mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133616	Thank you. The reason I commented on the form is not that it is boring, but because it is heavy to get through. I think that if we could do something that is more popular and that can be used outside this debate and in the general debate, it would be very good if the government were also so visible in the Arctic area and not only in our political negotiations. It was only for that reason, because there is a huge desire to discuss the Arctic. My first question is whether the SDGs should not fill more than one bee on page 4. Should the SDGs not, as the Minister of Finance says, stand up as a sort of overlinger, as an important point which is always mentioned as the first and as our main principle for all domestic and foreign policy activity, if we are to achieve the very, very great and visionary objectives that the UN has set itself? And should we not ensure that in the Arctic region at least every year the Minister did some kind of SDG-17 target status in connection with the Arctic statement, so that we could be sure that we are working in the right direction with the 17 important objectives?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133722	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133723	One can always discuss the order in which things should be mentioned. There is no doubt either that if we change the order, there are other areas of criticism that will rain down on the government, because then there is something else that goes further down the line. But what I was trying to say in my initial answer was that the SDGs are important and essential to discuss, and among other things. I therefore look forward to seeing each other again on 1 December.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133751	Would you like a further question? There is. Here's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133801	Thank you. We will meet again on 1 December, says the Minister, but we will meet sooner. The second question is: What is the reason why Denmark has stopped working with the United States in the Joint Committee and in the Permanent Committee on Thulebasen? In a situation where we have so many unresolved questions, it should be straight off the road that we meet as often as possible to resolve common problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133829	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133830	I also think it is essential that we meet often and in different forums to clarify the issues and doubts that may exist between us. After all, it is one of the tools to ensure that this remains a low-intensity area in terms of creating potential conflicts. And one of the tools is the committee mentioned, which I think it makes good sense to see if you can revive again.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133903	The next question is Mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133907	Thank you very much and thank you for the answers to the questions raised in the debate. I would like to ask about the government's foreign and security policy strategy, which runs until 2020, namely whether it has not become much more urgent with both the UN's global goals for sustainable development and the recent research, which was not present when the foreign and security policy strategy came into being, to have that strategy updated, as there has been, among other things, much more urgent. states that there is a main focus on economy and business development, and as sustainability and climate policy do not take up as much as it might need to.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026133959	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134000	I am always sensitive to what might be included in the foreign and security policy strategy, which we regularly update or publish. There is a good reason why we do, and it is that the world is changing at the speed of lightning. It's getting stronger and stronger. After all, we all know that if we look back five years, it is almost incomprehensible what has happened in the five years since Putin was visiting Copenhagen and drinking beer with our prime minister and the Russians had not gone into Ukraine. There was also spring in the Middle East, and now there is chaos again. We didn't know about Brexit, we didn't know about Trump, and you can keep doing that. This also applies, of course, to the issues to be dealt with in the foreign and security policy strategy. In addition to the specific geographical areas and political conditions, there are, of course, also themes to discuss whether to enter or not. I am sensitive to that, and then we will have to try to conclude at some point, because it should not become a foreign and security policy statement that flows across all borders. Because then it ends up being nothing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134108	Thank you to the Secretary of State. There are no more questions. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134121	The debate is open and I shall begin by giving the floor to Mrs Mette Reissmann as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134150	Thank you. Higher education in Denmark has undergone significant developments over the past 10-15 years, both in size and organizational terms. The development is fundamentally positive, because it means that we succeed in ensuring that more people take higher education, and when young people take an education, it is a gain for society, but also for the person himself. At the same time, with the development of higher education, it has also been crucial to ensure that the quality and relevance of education and training are in order. Since 2007, therefore, the accreditation of higher education has been ongoing. It is crucial that we have a framework that supports the institutions constantly working with quality and relevance in their education. The current institutional accreditation came into force in 2013 and it is also sensible to look at legislative adjustments in the light of the experience gained since then. The draft law therefore provides for a number of adjustments to current legislation and, in the eyes of the Social Democrats, these are positive adjustments which improve the quality assurance framework. The draft law provides for a number of sensible changes, and let me mention a few of them here. I would like to highlight the proposed amendment relating to the creation of training courses in new disciplines or new scientific areas. The change means that institutions wishing to offer new training can only do so in their current field. If the institutions wish to provide training outside their fields, it requires a positive assessment of the quality of the new training and the knowledge base for the new field of activity. I understand that this is precisely the part of the legislative proposal that brings about changes in the institutional environment. At the same time, I also believe that it is quite natural that training outside the areas in which the institutions already work should be focused. This ensures that the basis for sufficient quality is there to a greater extent than it is today, and that is ultimately quite crucial for social democracy. Finally, I have also noted that some of the consultations point out that it is proposed to allow the accreditation institution to assess private training. It can certainly be justified to assess private training in relation to the needs of other authorities. However, it is essential that private higher education is not equated with publicly recognised higher education in a way that leaves the impression that it is the same type of education with the same rights. That is why I am also pleased that the Minister, in the commentary on the consultation note, emphasizes that it is central, so I look forward, of course, to following that. The draft law provides for good adjustments in the light of these experience gained from the current accreditation, and it helps to ensure a better basis for quality in higher education than there is today. Social democracy can therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134450	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next is Mrs Tilde Bork as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134458	Thank you. We are dealing here with Bill L 47, which intends to make it more flexible and to adjust the framework for accreditation. We in the Danish People's Party think this is very positive, as the current rules have been running since 2013, and it is time that we just saw them through and adjusted them so that they are up to date. The draft law lays down, among other things: up to the exemption of maritime institutions not providing higher education from having to undergo institutional accreditation, so that in future only maritime institutions providing higher education will be subject to the law. In relation to maritime education institutions providing both higher and non-higher education, institutional accreditation will cover only the provision of higher education. This, of course, makes very good sense, as non-higher education is already subject to special supervision. In addition, a change is proposed so that future study representatives in the Accreditation Council will have the opportunity to sit for 3 years rather than today, where they can only sit for 2 years. We think this is very positive, as representatives will thus be able to gain more experience and easier to contribute to the work. In addition, it is proposed to limit the period during which an educational institution may retain the right to provide training where there has been no training activity to five years. This is a positive proposal because we will then ensure that education offers are properly suited to the current needs we are experiencing. In the Danish People's Party, we believe that it is important that the quality of higher education is ensured in the best possible way, even without much unnecessary bureaucracy. The Danish People's Party therefore looks forward to the committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134647	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. And the next in line is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134656	Thank you, President. Unfortunately, the rapporteur on research and training of the Left has no opportunity to be present in this Chamber today, and I have therefore promised to assist him in the proposals we are dealing with here, both L 47 and the subsequent legislative proposal, L 48. As far as this draft law is concerned, L 47, we have a legislative proposal which aims to adjust and make the existing rules on institutional accreditation more flexible. The proposed changes take place in the light of experience to date following the introduction of institutional accreditation with the Law of 2013. This proposal for a directive provides for amendments in a number of areas which we have all been able to read about in the text of the proposal and which have also been mentioned by previous rapporteurs. I will spare you a repeat of the proposed changes, but will note that the Left naturally supports them. In our optics, the proposal has the right balance to establish an appropriate and flexible framework, while at the same time also focusing on supporting quality in higher education. We have been concerned to create the best framework for the quality and relevance of training institutions without imposing unnecessary bureaucratic burdens on the institutions. And the proposal seems to succeed, especially given that accreditation of entire educational establishments is a comprehensive process. And we have noted with satisfaction that a broad circle of the consultation parties considers the draft law to be extremely sensible. This shows that with the amendments we are right here and that the proposal will ensure even better procedures for the processes themselves than what has been the case up to now. The Left therefore wants to support this bill. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134907	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next in line is Mrs Eva Flyvholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026134921	In the Enhedslisten we are positive about these adjustments to the accreditation system that have been put up here. I think it is really good that a more flexible and less bureaucratic system is being worked out. It's good that the maximum period for these accreditations is extended from 2 to 3 years, and it's also good that test and exam systems come under this accreditation. So, overall, we are very positive about this and can support the proposal. Then we have a few concerns that these new things can increase the use of resources in the institutions and that there will be more bureaucracy. This is among other things. Danish universities and Danish professional colleges, which also point to this in their consultation response. And another point highlighted in the consultation answers is that it is also important that there should continue to be opportunities for the institutions to set up new training courses or to adjust training programmes, regardless of the time at which they have been accredited. That is one of the things I hope we will be able to discuss during the legislative process. Anyway, there's support from us.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135044	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135051	Thank you for that, President. One big question we will probably never get answered is: what would happen if the accreditation institution did not exist? The Niels Bohr Institute and other excellent research institutions would probably not get better or worse, the many world-class researchers that we have in Denmark would probably not publish more or less, and the good PhD programs, which we have in many places, would probably not get either better or worse. On the other hand, one sometimes sees a mystic education, where one does not have much contact with reality in the effect of theories on one another, and what various professors think about the effect of these theories on one another. It is thought that it is apparently accredited. So you can't help thinking that if this is accredited, what can't be accredited? Pr. e-mail can be asked a question from a group of journalist students about what you think about a subject you have dealt with adequately in a newspaper article in recent months. And then you think that the question is being sent from an accredited institution, and you ask yourself: if this one is accredited, then who can't be? So Denmark's Accreditation Institution is part of the legacy and debt that I, as a research rapporteur, have taken over when I got the post, and if I were to be completely honest, nothing would happen if it disappeared tomorrow. However, it is not in the cards that we need to have a critical review of superfluous state institutions, and that is why the Liberal Alliance supports the adoption, under the terms and conditions, of a legislative proposal which makes the work of the Accreditation Institution more flexible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135251	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Pernille Schnoor as rapporteur for the alternative. Sorry, one correction: the next is Mrs Ida Auken, because I do not see the rapporteur of the alternative in the Chamber. I call Mrs Ida Auken. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135320	Thank you. Yes, the law adjusts some of the accreditation processes, exempts some of the maritime educational institutions from institutional accreditation and extends the range of assessment competence of the Danish Accreditation Institution. It's all fine and mostly technical. Some of the maritime educational institutions are so small that they cannot meaningfully undergo institutional accreditation, which has proved to be even very extensive. Overall, we need high-quality education in Denmark. Accreditation is one of the ways to secure it. We're known for that all over the world. Perhaps we should look forward to making it a little more flexible, a little simpler. We expect the Minister, if he will listen, to use his strength. In any case, he has expressed an interest in this and I am sure that you can read this speech afterwards in writing. We support this bill from the radical side.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135418	Thank you to the radical rapporteur. Next in line, sir. Carl Valentin as rapporteur for the Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135425	Thank you very much. In the SF, we believe that there are a number of good intentions behind this bill: simplification and debureaucratisation, but also a desire for continued quality assurance of higher education. Both here at Castle, but also outside, there is a lot of talk about how to ensure quality education, and I think that the answer far along the way is really to have confidence that our students would like the teachers to want and that the institutions would like. I believe that it provides quality when there are sufficient resources to ensure that students receive the teaching and feedback they need. Having said that, we think that this bill on the accreditation of higher education institutions is fine, because we need to look continuously at whether our quality assurance of the institutions is good enough. In the SF we are generally positive, but the proposal also raises some questions that we would like to address in the further work. Firstly, it is positive that the maximum period of conditional positive institutional accreditation is extended from two to three years. We believe that a longer process will give institutions a better opportunity to involve students and teachers. Secondly, it is good that there is an extension of the appointment period to the Accreditation Council for Student Representatives, so that the students elected have better opportunities to use their insights and experience in the work over a longer period of time. However, the students from the MVU network also raise the concern that the change may mean that the students who have come a long way in their education are chosen for the benefit of students who can sit on the council for coherent 2 years. This is a good consideration, and we believe that this concern should be borne in mind in future work. Thirdly, it is a very positive step that the test system and the examination system are incorporated into the criteria for institutional accreditation. It is supported by universities, students, business and employees. However, we also believe that it is important for the institutions to be involved in drawing up the criteria. The big question about this bill, which all universities raise, is whether the draft law, taken as a whole, will simplify and remove bureaucracy. Several universities do not believe that the proposal does. And they are critical of the new provision that institutions can, as a starting point, only offer new courses in the fields offered by the educational institution when institutional accreditation was started. On the one hand, I understand the concerns of universities, because it is, of course, to take freedom from universities. In addition, there is also the uncertainty in the draft law on education, which may be located in the border country between one scientific area and another. Conversely, it seems appropriate that the institutions should not simply be able to offer teaching outside the scientific areas which have entered into accreditation, because it is important that students experience quality education and with a strong research environment behind it. Overall, therefore, we in the Socialist People's Party are in favour of the proposal, but we are also prepared to look at any changes that might lead the institutions to see the draft law as sharper and as a real simplification of rules. And then I should say hello from the alternative, which unfortunately could not be here, and say that they have the same attitude as the SF. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135805	Thank you to the SF rapporteur. I do not see the Conservative rapporteur in the Chamber, so we move on to the Minister of Education and Research, the cheerful minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026135819	Absolutely, President. Thank you for the floor. Congratulations to the SF rapporteur. It's so nice to hear a SF that so clearly says Socialist I'm glad about that. So heartily congratulations on the debut here. In any case, it is a central purpose of institutional accreditation to develop the quality and relevance of higher education. This means that there must be a clear and appropriate framework for the external quality assurance of training institutions. This draft law proposes a number of amendments designed to adjust and make the rules more flexible, as a number of rapporteurs have also mentioned. They are proposed on the basis of experience gained after the introduction of the institutional accreditation with the Law of 2013. The draft law now lays down the possibility for educational institutions to set up new training courses in subject areas where the institution does not already have a scientific or professional environment. This is done through appropriate mechanisms which support the occupational anchoring of new training and training provision. It is also proposed that the period during which conditional positive institutional accreditation can be granted should be extended from two to three years. The two-year period has proved too short. The proposal will enable institutions which are undergoing institutional accreditation to choose rather than await the decision on accreditation when they need to have approved new training courses and will allow for a more flexible process. For maritime education institutions which do not offer higher education, institutional accreditation does not make sense, and a number of the rapporteurs have also mentioned this. We therefore propose that they should not undergo institutional accreditation. Finally, it is proposed that the criteria for institutional accreditation should also include, in the future, quality assurance of the training institutions' examination and examination system. This proposal is a follow-up to one of the recommendations of the Committee on Petitions. In those words, I would like to thank you for the debate. I welcome the broad support for the proposal. Any questions must then be clarified in the committee procedure. We look forward to answering them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140026	There are no brief comments, so thank you to the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140043	The debate is open. I give the floor to Mrs Mette Reissmann as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140109	Thank you. Denmark has a strong and proud tradition of education. This has made us a rich society with equal opportunities. Education is a cornerstone of our social model and, at the same time, education has never been the ultimate goal. For education is, after all, linked to getting into employment, getting a job. Education provides freedom for individuals to shape their own lives, and education ensures that, as a society, we constantly and continuously have skilled and competent employees who can lift both companies and our public sector. When we talk about education, we also have to insist that education should have the best possible connection with the labour market, both for the individual young people who spend several years skilling, going to the exam, working hard on it and delivering tasks, and for us as a society to benefit from the skills acquired by young people along the way. So it is an ongoing task for us as politicians to ensure that education and the labour market are close to each other, in other words that the transition is flexible, and especially in higher education. With the thousands of young people who start higher education every year, that task has never been more important than it is today. L 48 also ensures a better link between the labour market and training. An experiment with the business candidate scheme means that we are taking an important step towards giving students better opportunities to gain practical experience. At the same time, companies will have the opportunity to get the latest knowledge into the organization for the benefit and benefit of strategic efforts. Social democracy has also proposed, in the context of our growth initiative in March of this year, that the scheme be set in motion. That is why there is only reason for us to sign a bill which contains the same ideas here today. With the Business Candidate Scheme, we will have a good opportunity to create better links between students and companies. As you know, the proposal also includes students who have a professionally relevant self-employment. This is positive, especially because we know that entrepreneurship started by university students is doing well. In relation to the actual implementation of the business application scheme, there are also some challenges, especially for students who want to use the scheme to start a business. Among other things: The consultation answers also point out that there is a particular economic challenge for the group due to the fact that, as a general rule, entrepreneurship is not profitable in the first part of its time from the start and onwards, and this is often linked to, if we look at the draft law, the start of the study. This is not quite appropriate, because it may mean that good ideas do not get air under our wings and that we, in this way, like to keep some people from embarking on a business-candidate scheme. So I would certainly suggest that the specific conditions for students who want to start business should be taken further and looked at in the seams when we start the committee work. In any case, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill. It is essential that we continuously ensure better coherence between our education and the labour market. The attempt at the business candidate scheme is an important step in the right direction, and we look forward to both the debate in committee, but also to following the scheme and seeing how it will take effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140430	Thank you to the Socialist rapporteur. The next speaker is Mrs Tilde Bork as rapporteur for the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140438	Thank you. We are dealing here with Bill L 48. The draft law provides that universities and artistic educational institutions may apply as an experimental scheme to the Minister for approval to offer an already approved two-year full-time Master's degree as a 4-year Master's degree under special conditions for persons in relevant employment. The pilot scheme provides for the initial approval of up to 20 full-time candidate courses, which will in future also be offered as vocational training courses. In order to be admitted as a student to the Master's degree programme, it requires a documented employment agreement at a relevant workplace. The pilot scheme also provides for entrepreneurs to be able to apply for vocational training. This requires a professionally relevant company with turnover and revenue-generating activities. In the Danish People's Party we are very positive about the experimental scheme. We think it is positive that a better link should be established between business and students. And I am actually almost already looking forward to seeing the evaluation coming on the experimental system, but so far we are looking forward first and foremost to the committee procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140556	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. The next in line is Mrs Anni Matthiesen as rapporteur for the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140605	Thank you, sir. President. In the Left, we are very pleased that today we are opening the way for universities and higher artistic education institutions to now have the opportunity to set up an experimental scheme to provide a four-year vocational training course on a part-time basis. Candidate students under this experimental scheme shall, in parallel with their studies, be in appropriate employment either with an employer or as an entrepreneur. In the Left, we believe that this scheme has several winners. After all, students are tested to be in the labour market while at the same time having their theory tested in practice, and companies are thus given qualified labour and access to brand-new knowledge. All parties will thus benefit from this arrangement. The business candidate scheme has long been in demand by interested organisations and students, as many new graduates without professional experience actually experience being chosen for job interviews, as they are outperformed by candidates with professional experience. It is our hope that vocational training can meet this problem. We in the Left would like to help to bridge the gap between the private labour market and the education system. Analyses also show that the vast majority of graduates have to find a job in the private labour market afterwards. We believe that vocational training can help to promote the entry of candidates into private employment. In addition, we also want to give students more freedom in the education system. We believe that this system will give them more freedom to test the labour market before they are trained. In conclusion, I would just like to sum up that we in the Left believe that this system is a good way of linking the education system to the labour market, and we are looking forward, hopefully like the other parties, to being part of the committee's proceedings.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140836	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. The next in line is Mrs Eva Flyvholm as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026140848	From Enhedslisten's side we can also support this proposal because it provides better educational opportunities for a rather large group of students and can also be good for students who learn to combine school bench and work. We have also seen that some of the people who are already out on the labour market and want to be further educated can also benefit from this scheme so that they can continue working at the same time. So I think that is really sensible. We also have a few concerns which I hope we will be able to discuss more here during the legislative process. All of this is also something that has been pointed out in the consultation responses of the organisations that have made comments. Firstly, it has been absolutely crucial to us throughout the debate on this proposal that this experimental scheme should not be misused to provide cheap labour for the private labour market. It is therefore absolutely essential that students who come on this experimental scheme should be able to work under proper conditions that enable them to make both study life and working life coherent and to have the economy to work together, as well as their family life being able to relate together. Otherwise, it won't work if it gets too pressured. The second concern is that I think it is a pity if this experimental scheme is limited to the private labour market alone. It can easily be very obvious here during the trial period to see if there are some places where a similar interaction with e.g. the public administration or some welfare jobs can work well. So I also hope that we can discuss whether one cannot have such a slightly relaxed practice for it, so that if there are universities and would like to try to set up an education aimed at it, that is something we can look at. Thirdly, I would like to say that if we are even standing here today and having to deal with the proposal for such a vocational training, this is because the educational institutions have been put into an excessively tight straitjacket due to the reform of progress. In the past, it was possible for educational institutions to do something that is very similar to this vocational training, so they could just do it themselves if they wanted to. We have it, for example. in the auditor's training, which has also looked like this for a long time. And it is simply some of these limitations that have been laid down over the education system that make it necessary for us to stand and approve it here. So if we did what I think we should do, in other words, precisely dropped the progress reform and some of the other restrictions on educational institutions and gave more freedom and self-determination to educational establishments and to students, I do not think we really needed to do this experimental scheme at all. Then we could just sit back and look at how they galloped beyond the steppes and were even doing it already. At least that's worth considering. Finally, I would like to add that it is important for us in the Enhedslisten that this part-time education is just a supplement and an opportunity for the students who want to. That is also how I see the proposal, so there is no problem in it, but at a time when there is quite a lot of concern about students' educational support, that is to say the SU, it is important for me to say that all degree programmes must of course also be able to be taken in general conditions full-time and with a proper and comprehensive SU for students.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026141227	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. The next speaker is Mr. Henrik Dahl as rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026141239	Thank you for that, President. Next year the modern Bachelor's degree will be 25 years old. The old Bachelor's degree was abolished in the late 1700s, and then the new one was introduced here in 1993. After all, it is a half-round day where there is good reason to congratulate you, but if the truth is to come out, the new Bachelor's degree has not been quite the success you had hoped for. In the English-speaking world one has a tradition of employing bachelors in what is popularly called real jobs, but it has not succeeded in creating a tradition for it in Denmark. Becoming a bachelor from a university is for the vast majority an important and rather big step on the way to the Master's degree. It's a good time to throw a party, but then it's not that much anymore. Most of them continue in the Master's degree programme, and many of them even directly after the semester which led to the Bachelor's degree. With L 48, the opportunity will then be created to create a vocational qualification, initially as an experimental scheme. So now you can apply to the labour market when you get your bachelor degree, and then you can acquire the Master's degree along the way in a kind of symbiosis, you can almost say, with the company where you work. I believe that in the long term it will do what was hoped at the beginning of the 1990s, namely that it will create a labour market for bachelors in many places, and I also believe that it will create a new dynamic in the candidate studies, where there are not the same sharp boundaries between the educational world and the world of work as there are today. Then we cannot help thinking, if we are optimistic, that it will benefit both those studies which are being populated with professional candidates, and it will also benefit those jobs where we have a colleague who is in the process of completing his Master's degree programme. There is a very wide range of stakeholders who have already nodded to the proposal, and in the Liberal Alliance we have no reason not to join this circle and welcome the proposal. Then I had to say hello from the Conservative People's Party, and indeed I should have done that in connection with L 47, but it was on a piece of paper where it was one line, and that was all that stood, so I forgot. But the Conservative People's Party therefore supports L 47 and they very much support L 48. With those comments, I thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026141529	Thank you, and we note the greetings of the Conservative People's Party. Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Ida Auken as rapporteur for the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026141545	With this bill, the government is finally trying to make a small attempt at vocational training, that is to say the possibility of combining its Master's degree programme with relevant work, so that education and the labour market can be more fertilised. That's a good idea. We warmly support that in the Radical Left. We've been asking for this for a long time, only we're sorry it's such a relatively limited experiment. Very few training courses are given the opportunity to offer the professional candidate. Before the 2015 elections, we radically suggested that one should be able to take one's Master's degree programme part-time, so that one could at the same time test one's competences in a relevant job that could inspire the studies. It was supposed to apply to all degree programmes. And, of course, it should be combined with an extension of the legal requirement, as we also proposed. The government does not have that part, which is why we fear that far too few will make the attempt with the professional candidate, but we shall see. We need many more who try as entrepreneurs, and many more who combine education and work closely. The future belongs to those who train and work in a society for life. That is why it is good that we are getting started now. We hope that much more will come from the government on this front. That's what we need. And we'd be more than happy to help in the Radical Left. Of course, we can support L 48.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026141706	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026141718	One thing that is clear is that change is the only constant. So the idea that you get a given education, and then you do with it for the rest of your life, is probably a thing of the past. That's what the prime minister of the country said in 2016. Curiously, it was the same day that the training ceiling was adopted. And if you look overall at education policy in Denmark, it has been an expression of the complete opposite of what the Prime Minister said for a number of years. Everything has been about hurrying the students, getting the students through faster. It has been about depriving them of rights or making it harder for them to choose if they were wrong; to force them to choose right the first time. It has been about saving the students' education and living conditions. But bearing in mind that change is the only constant thing, it is also time that we began to see education in a different way, that we gave students a freer framework for education, that we abolished the education ceiling and that we focused less on rapid completion. But also that students are given the opportunity to train throughout their lives and to train at a pace and in a way that is more appropriate to them. That is why this week we proposed extending the legal requirement for students so that they do not have to start a candidate for everything in the world right after the programme, but so that they actually have time to work or have other life experience before they continue to study. We want a more flexible education system that takes into account that change is the only constant. That's why this bill is good too. We've been waiting for this for a long time. And even if it is only an experimental system that we are nodding today, it is a real step on the road. With this proposal, a small group of students in Denmark can choose an alternative to the traditional path with the candidate after the bachelor. Instead, you will now be able to choose to take a job with fewer hours than a normal full-time job after the bachelor and at the same time study next door. For many students it will be a fantastic liberating path because they can use the teaching they receive at the studio, out at their work, alongside that they study. For students who are fortunate enough to deal with their dream, for example. their own company or finding an exciting job already after the bachelor, this will mean that you can continue at work or live out the dream of entrepreneurship while you train yourself next door. So we will have students who will both be able to train more flexibly, but who will also be able to get work experience. That's really good. In the SF we actually think it is so good that it should not be so limited. It seems to us that this proposal could be applied to much more education than those with low unemployment. Perhaps some of the students who come out after the candidate and are affected by long search unemployment would actually have been easier to get to work if they had had the opportunity of a part-time candidate. In addition, there are also a number of professional training courses where this would be obvious, so that some of our skilled nurses, educators, social workers or teachers were also thought into this, so that they were better able to train themselves while they are working. That's why this proposal is good, but it could be even better. The few concerns we have about the proposal concern primarily the security and legal certainty of students, and that is important. And although this is a good proposal, it is also crucial that we do not throw out students who choose a professional candidate on rocky grounds. It must be ensured that students who end up in a non-working partnership with a company can return to full-time study. They must not be left on the platform because a company goes bankrupt or because it simply does not work between the student and the workplace. In addition, we think that this is more important and good points that both Djøf and the Danish Magister Association, the Danish Engineering Association, IDA, the Academicians, Pharmadanmark and the Danish Students' Joint Council have when they recommend that a pay level should be agreed at least which reflects the student's competences at bachelor level. The students of the professional candidate should not be used to print the salary, and they should receive a salary on which they can live. How we can ensure this with respect for the social partners will be examined in committee. In addition, we also think that we should listen to the concerns that students can simply be imposed for many hours of their work. Several of the consultation parties are proposing a maximum number of hours, and I think that there is a very important signal in our saying on the part of Christiansborg that yes, it should be possible to work alongside the candidate, but we still make high demands on the students' studies, and we must also ensure that the students have enough time to take their studies seriously. That is why I believe that a maximum requirement should be made for working hours, from which derogations can then be made in exceptional cases. These are some of the elements that we will continue to work on in the committee process and which are important if we are to ensure that students have proper study and working conditions. But overall, this is a good proposal and a step in the right direction, and we can only support that in the SF. And then I should like to welcome the alternative, which unfortunately could not be here, and say that they are also positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142301	Thank you. There are no brief comments. Then it's the Minister of Education and Research.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142310	Thank you for the positive debate on the proposal. The proposal means that universities and higher artistic education institutions will be given the opportunity, as an experimental scheme, to offer four-year vocational training courses on a part-time basis. The students must, in parallel with the studies, be in relevant employment, either with an employer, where the student must be an integral part of the workplace, or as an entrepreneur. This gives Bachelorers more freedom to try out the labour market before they complete their training, and it will create a better link between the education system and the labour market to the benefit of all parties. Vocational training will be financed by the State without any participation fee and without the possibility of receiving the SU. It is the training institutions which determine which existing full-time courses they wish to offer as vocational courses. The institutions will then have to apply for approval of these vocational training courses and up to 20 of them will be approved in the experiment. Which, then, is the question. Approval will depend on an overall assessment. Analysis shows that the vast majority of graduates will be employed in the private sector in the future. This is why it is a consideration in the overall assessment that many of the newly-educated professional candidates will be employed in the private sector. However, the experimental system does not exclude prior training aimed at the public sector. In the consultation process, the wish has been expressed that professional candidates should be guaranteed the same graduation rights as ordinary candidates. I agree that professional graduates should not be placed at a disadvantage. I will therefore, in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment, look into this and look forward to the further examination of the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142456	We thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Education and Research Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142512	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democratic Party
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142531	Thank you for that, President. This case is a matter of the debt collection of the municipalities. Everyone knows, of course, that our tax recovery has, to say the least, been sailing and that a huge clean-up work is under way. The recovery system, called EFI or EFI, is now in the past, we are talking about it, and thank God it was closed down in 2015, and this meant that debts to the public sector, including debts to the municipalities, were only to a very limited extent recovered, and of course that is not possible, because money is needed in order to run a welfare society. It has already been taken into account here in the Folketing by an earlier proposal that the municipalities will then have the opportunity to collect these things, but the question is whether we should also ensure that it can be done in a way that they have an economy for it, and that is why this proposal by the government is a proposal that they in the municipalities should be able to charge a fee which is at most equivalent to the amount previously charged to SKAT and which SKAT today can also collect under the applicable law. So it sets a framework for how high a fee can be charged when you do the important work called ensuring that everyone pays the tax that they are going to pay in this country. That is sensible, and that is why the Social Democratic Party can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142709	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142716	Thank you for that, President. It is not necessary to make a long case out of this because, as the comments on the bill state, the municipalities took over some recovery tasks concerning, for example, property taxes per year. 2 February 2017, after the definitive abolition of the common recovery system EFI by SKAT, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke just explained a little bit. On that occasion, the municipalities were not empowered to charge fees and interest on late payments in respect of applications for tender. We now have this bill corrected so that the municipalities will be able to charge a fee of DKK 450. The Danish People's Party can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142805	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142813	Thank you, President. The Left can agree to the draft law on the basis of the same content as the two previous rapporteurs. This is for us to see an adjustment in relation to providing the same framework to the municipalities in their assignment, which was previously under SKAT. It is also important for me to stress that this is not an expression of an increase in fees or an increase in revenue in the new job placement of municipalities. It was the same earlier at the SKAT. The Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142849	Thank you. We move on to the next rapporteur, who is Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142900	Thank you. I agree with the comments made by the other rapporteurs, and I would just like to say in addition to the previous rapporteur, who has just been on the floor, Mr President. Carl Holst, that if we do not implement this, this means that debtors can impose additional costs on the municipalities by paying the amount due, without the municipality having any opportunity at least to charge a fairly modest fee for the action to be taken. So Enhedslisten also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142936	Thank you. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026142941	After all, things are moving fast when we in the Parliamentary Chamber have to deal with something as exciting as charges and interest on late payments levied by municipalities and regions. The draft law, as we have already heard several of the rapporteurs report, allows the municipal council to decide that fees should be paid in connection with public procurement transactions, and the charging of fees will ensure more efficiency in the recovery operations in the municipality. And it is hard to argue against it, especially since we in the Liberal Alliance are as effective as we are. So, of course, the Liberal Alliance also supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143022	Thank you. And then we move on to Mr. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143028	I think that this proposal has been well explained by the previous rapporteurs, so I would actually just like to say that the alternative has no problem in supporting it either.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143039	Thank you. And then it's Mrs. Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143044	It's one of those cases where you're really glad that you've had a talk with your colleague, so I'm going to read it now. In short: Radical Left supports that municipalities can charge a fee of DKK 450. in the context of the recovery of public debt. We support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143101	Thank you. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143107	Thank you. Like Mrs Ida Auken, I am also here on behalf of someone else and will therefore read out our rapporteur's speech. The proposal is a technical proposal which ensures that municipalities are authorised to charge fees for notifications of procurement transactions in connection with the recovery of municipal claims. The proposal equates the municipalities with the practice in force, while other authorities were responsible for the recovery of arrears, etc. So, as such, it is merely a question of forgetting the small detail when the task was transferred to the municipalities, and that is then corrected by this proposal. There is therefore no change in practice. However, it is up to the individual municipality itself to decide whether it wishes to charge the fee, and the municipality itself can fix the amount of the fee, however, max. 450 kroner. In this way, the municipalities will have the opportunity to assess and determine the real costs associated with the recovery. The SF therefore supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143207	Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. Then it's mr. Anders Johansson, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143213	Thank you. In February of this year we amended the legislation so that the municipalities were given the opportunity to collect what is called preferential municipal claims, i.e. something like property tax etc., but in this context they were not allowed to charge fees, as had been done in the past when it was under SKAT. So that is what is being proposed here, in other words, the practice that was at the SKAT earlier, and gives the municipalities the same opportunity, and of course we can support that from the conservative side. So we support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143244	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143250	I would like to thank the parties of the Danish Parliament and the present rapporteurs for their extremely favourable treatment of the draft law put forward by the government. It is, of course, nice to have the opportunity once again to have such a broad and united majority in parliament, albeit of a smaller nature. As several speakers have pointed out, it is possible for the municipalities in the context of the recovery task entrusted to them per year. 2 February of this year, may charge a maximum fee of DKK 450, which is equivalent to the fees that SKAT has been able to charge for the award of outstanding transactions relating to claims recovered by SKAT. I think it is important to stress that the draft law allows the municipalities, but not the obligation, to charge these fees up to DKK 450, and it is also important to emphasise that the draft law does not give rise to any regulation of the municipal block grants. Thank you for your kind remarks.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143354	So does the Folketing as Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143410	The debate is open. Sir. Magnus Heunicke, Social Democracy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143425	During this time, there is an election campaign for our regions and an election campaign for our municipalities. This proposal is about how we will be better in here at Christiansborg to set municipalities free, give them better opportunities for innovation, find smarter solutions that break with traditional ideas and rules and that can inspire task-solving. This is done under the name of free municipalities networks, and it was the former Socialist-led government that put forward the first draft law on free municipalities in this round. We did so because we back then, as we do now, that it is not just us in this Chamber who are getting the good ideas, because there is no monopoly on good ideas in Danish politics in here; much of that can be brought closer to the citizens of the individual municipalities. Now it is free municipality networks where municipalities have done a great deal of work together and find ideas together, and it is they who have become this bill with different concrete free municipality proposals, and by far most of that we support, just as we wholeheartedly support the intentions behind and the whole principle of the free community network. In the committee work we will look at a few things, and I will mention one from the platform, which is close to our heart, namely the work that is being done primarily in the larger cities to ensure cheap housing. This is absolutely necessary, so we support this, but the attempt that will be made here is the attempt that at least Danish Seniers and Danish Handicap organisations are concerned about in the consultation answers, and I think we owe it to them to take seriously. That is why, in the committee work, we will ask and try to get closer to how we ensure that there is accessibility for people with disabilities, even when it comes to the general housing sector, because that is what this is all about. So how do we ensure that this proposal does not become a slippery path in the wrong place? This is a concern we have, but it does not change the fact that we are going to work to vote for the whole legislative proposal, because the whole principle behind free municipalities is a principle that we support and which is based on good ideas getting at least in our municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143725	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026143730	Thank you for that, President. We are now going to deal with another round of free municipalities attempts. In the Danish People's Party we are also in favour of free municipalities, and I would even allow myself, perhaps with a smile on my lips, to say that it is in fact my party chairman, Kristian Thulesen Dahl, who has invented the concept of free municipalities. It has always been with the intention and with the eyewitnesses that municipalities should be allowed to make some attempts to use methods and cooperation on some things that always put the citizen at the forefront and always make things better for the citizens and give them more welfare. It can be either by raising the level of service or by reducing the bureaucracy of the workflow so that we free resources from heavy workflows inside the thick walls of the municipality and turn it into citizen-friendly welfare and warm hands out there where it does good. But sometimes we can get the impression that the applications from the municipalities are that you only look at the economy, and that is why we always lift our eyebrows when there are some applications. That is why the Danish People's Party also has some questions in the committee work about these attempts, and I would like to mention a few examples here. Making shared homes for single mothers, who may have been in crisis center, would be a really good idea, both economically and socially and everything else, but I'm just thinking that there might also be a lot of legal questions: What if one finds a girlfriend where the girlfriend was staying in the apartment? What if you don't get along, who's gonna move? If vandalism has been done on the occasion, is there solidarity? And there are many, many other things. Then there is the free municipality attempt on functional requirements and accessibility. This free-at-counsel experiment we would like to see paused until the new guidelines for the building regulations were in place, and there are also other legislative proposals in the area of the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing which are on the way and which also deal with these matters. So we have some questions in committee and we have always raised eyebrows, because it must always benefit citizens when municipalities try to change some things. But the Danish People's Party is positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144017	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144032	Thank you for the floor, President. Left can also support L 61, law on increased use of free municipalities. You can always discuss who invented the concept. The experience of this has been good ever since the then Minister of Interior Britta Schall Holberg from the Left launched it for the first time in the 1980s. The approach to it has always been that legislation has not always been able to promote better ways of organizing things, that is to say, that legislation creates restrictions, while new ways of organising among those who work on matters create new thinking. This may sound like a criticism of the legislation, but at least it is a praise to those who are working on things, and that is why, as Mr. Magnus Heunicke, to promote new thinking in the task solution. We are in the process of doing so, and this is the second round of the round created by the previous government, which is based both on requests that have been dealt with at the first round, but also on requests that have been made after the second round of applications. What is important in this context for the Left is that we should emphasise what is also mentioned as an element of the law, namely that this collection should take place. We are making attempts to see whether there are new ways of working that are beneficial, and we are picking up and evaluating these experiments in order to also assess whether it should be spread out legally as an opportunity for the whole country. Another thing that is also important for the Left to emphasise is that the aim is to create new forms of task solutions • dash • but not changes to citizens' rights. It is the solution to citizens' rights that is the most important, not the changes or the lowering of the rights to service standards that citizens currently enjoy in relation to the Services Act. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144309	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Finn Sørensen, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144324	Thank you for the floor. There is at least one very good proposal in this new series of free municipalities which is being proposed here. It is the proposal that municipalities should be able to offer psychological treatment to sickness benefit recipients with certain diagnoses if they find it difficult to meet their treatment needs through the existing treatment services. It is a very good proposal and the framework that has been laid down over that attempt is entirely by the book. So for our sake, you can exalt it right away. We really do not need to experiment with it, because it is a clear extra opportunity for the municipalities to provide good help to the citizens. It would be desirable for all the other experiments to have been drawn up according to the same concept, namely that municipal experiments should be something that improves the service with regard to citizens, something that gives them better opportunities to move forward in life with the problems that they have now asked the municipality for help to solve. Unfortunately, however, I do not see any attempt at local government when we look at it in general terms, and I have been allowed to participate in this discussion in two parliamentary terms. I think it is very often marked by the fact that it is the desire of the system, because the system, i.e. the municipality, the administration, often sees different rights for citizens as something that limits their opportunities, and I think that is a rather backward approach to this. After all, it is not from below that these questions come, and the attempts that are being made here do not come from the citizens. After all, it is the official work that has been sitting and looking at: could we not be allowed to do things in a slightly different way? I think that also bears witness to that. Some of the attempts being made are marked by the fact that it is not the needs of the citizens that drive the work, but some other things that really ought to be resolved in a completely different way. This does not mean that all the other attempts that are being made here are useless from the point of view of the Enhedslisten, or that we will turn against them all. There is a big lump that is about better opportunities to secure cheap housing for citizens, who have what is called an acute housing social need, and we think it makes sense to provide housing support in this respect and to relax a little on the rules for visiting such housing. So it is certain that there are a number of initiatives that point in the right direction in this respect. But let us just be honest: when the proposals come right now, this is because the government and the Danish People's Party have introduced a ceiling on cash aid and a 225-hour rule, with the result that people with very small incomes today have even more difficulty in finding some housing they can pay. So, in general terms, it is actually a bad solution to this problem, at least if it is going to become permanent arrangements, and that is what one can fear when one hears some of the talk about this, that is, if it goes well, it must be raised to law and it must apply to everyone. But that will only mean, and it is also the concrete effect of some of these proposals, that people with very small money and an acute and serious housing situation are being squeezed into so-called housing communities, which they have not chosen for themselves, and that is what ought to be the hallmark of a community and that some families have some housing conditions which may not be the best framework for them to thrive and have a better chance of getting by in the labour market and in society. So, strictly speaking, these are patch solutions to a problem that has been created by political means. We also share the concerns expressed by Danske Handicaporganisations and LOS in relation to some of the above-mentioned attempts in the housing social area, and therefore those attempts must be followed very carefully. Our support for these parts of the legislative proposal should not be taken as an expression of the fact that we may then also support permanent changes to the legislation on the basis of the models presented here. Because that is what one might fear that it will lead to, so that it is permanent and half-bad patch solutions to the problem that poverty is increasing in Denmark and that there are far too few homes that people with small incomes can pay, which is all a product of political decisions by a majority here in the Danish Parliament. But in addition, there are some things that need to be tampered with or changed radically before we can support it. This applies to the proposal that the municipality may grant building permits for construction works that derogate from the accessibility requirements of the building regulations. We fully share Danske Handicap organisations and the Institute for Human Rights' sharp criticism of that proposal. This also applies to the proposals to derogate from the provisions of the National School Act on class formation and team formation and the possibility of derogating from the ceiling of 28 pupils in a class. It is a break with a guiding principle of the undivided school and a purely savings exercise. So we agree with the Danish Teacher's Association and Danske Skolelever's criticism of the proposals, and we also cannot agree that the requirements for trained teachers in the creative subjects should be relaxed. That also says that we cannot endorse the proposal as it stands, so we will table amendments in the hope that it can improve the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144845	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Carl Holst.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144848	Thank you to the rapporteur for his speech. When I have asked for the floor, it is a little in relation to the remark that this is only a system-free community attempt. And I acknowledge that there may be a lot of systemic in the second round. However, if we look at some of the measures that have been taken, not least in the area of employment, where we have opened up, I believe that these are measures that have been based on listening to the citizens' experience that the system is very opaque for a citizen who is in contact with a job centre and the employment effort. In this way, I do not share the rapporteur's criticism of that point. I would also like to challenge the rapporteur's remarks that because a municipality is given the opportunity to do something, it should be interpreted as pushing someone into something. It's not the same thing. I am thinking of the remark about community living.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144948	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026144949	I expressed my general experience of the draft laws on free municipalities, which we have dealt with in them, as soon as two parliamentary terms have been held in the Folketing. And that is my general view. That does not mean that on the way I have not expressed it from this platform in the great pile of many, many attempts that we have allowed for, I have also been able to hide some good suggestions. I have explained this in detail in each legislative proposal, just as I have done today. Then I am afraid I shall have to repeat the last question, I am sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145028	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145032	Thank you. That was the rapporteur's point, since the bill now forced people into a community of residents, which was contrary to a community of residents. Is the rapporteur absolutely sure? Because what is being proposed is that we now allow it, that is to say, that we give freedom to what is not possible today for those who want to do so. I believe that the rapporteur must be careful to generalise on the basis that the fact that you have an opportunity is not the same as imposing something on someone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145107	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145108	Thank you. Yes, but the municipalities are given the opportunity to do so. But what do you give the municipality the opportunity to do? That's searching people. That's the word that's being used for such a collective community. And that's where the opportunity lies. And then I think the word community becomes a little misleading, because it becomes one of these offers from the municipality, which it is really hard to refuse. Then maybe the word "cohabitation" gets a slightly wrong definition. That's what I meant by that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145139	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief remarks, so we move on to Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145147	First of all, I would like to say that the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the specific legislative proposal. I would also like to say that the Liberal Alliance is, of course, willing to give anyone the credit for having invented the concept of free municipalities as long as we just get more of it. Then we can let the big fights over who has come up with what and when, because it should certainly not be a secret that the Liberal Alliance is, of course, very enthusiastic about the free community scheme. It gives municipalities much greater freedom to find the best solutions to the problems they face in everyday life. And it is really such a little bit to think out of the box in the Danish administration when, as now, we work with new solutions and exchange experiences across the municipalities. With this bill, we allow free municipalities to carry out further experiments in a wide range of areas, ranging from collective housing communities in youth housing to flexible learning environments in primary school, which is why the Liberal Alliance naturally supports the bill. We do, among other things. because, as I said, it gives the municipalities more freedom and because we believe that it is out locally that the best solutions to local challenges are found. And we are in the Liberal Alliance in complete agreement with Mr. Magnus Heunicke, when he says from the platform, that we here in the Folketing do not have a monopoly on the good ideas. Then I would also like to recognise the rapporteurs who have referred to the building regulations as something that we must, of course, bear in mind in this context, both the existing building regulations and future building regulations. In particular, I have noted the part of the proposal which describes ideas about free lending for municipal reasons for the establishment of crooked housing as a focus of attention in relation to the building regulations. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145348	We would like to thank the rapporteur and move on to Mr Beazley's report. Torsten Gejl, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145353	Thank you very much. We can join the Glee Club of those who haven't made this up. But we really would have liked to have been involved in this, because we are quite fond of experimental and experimental activities and local experimental activities. We have such a slogan: more society, less state. Sometimes I think it's the case that ideas that can whirl the dust all over Christiansborg and get people to wrinkle their forehead a lot, turn out to work really well when they get tested by in the municipalities. We would, of course, like to take part in the committee's work in looking at some of the small chunks mentioned by some of the other rapporteurs. I would also like to say that, although our enthusiasm for experimental work is great, we will follow this closely, and these attempts can be stopped if they turn out to be in the wrong direction. And if they do not go in the right direction, we certainly do not intend to vote in favour of them being made permanent. In those words, we support this package.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145516	Thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145531	This debate shows very well that successes have many mothers or fathers, while failures are usually orphans. And no matter who has found in free municipalities, one can only rejoice that there is such broad support for it in the Folketing. I really think it is one of the things about Danish democracy that is really, really good that we dare to try some things because we dare to learn something from it, give some freedoms. Because, as some people know, this is difficult when you just want to remove rules, because there is also often a purpose in rules, so doing so in secure conditions where you experiment and see if you can remove anything without citizens losing all their rights is a very good way to do it. You can refer to Donald Trump. There were no limits to the rules that had to be removed under Donald Trump, but when they start tampering with them, it never becomes so much. As far as I have heard, the White House has not been able to make so many more rules and not actually take this huge debureaucratisation exercise. However, the free community attempts are a very good way of doing this, namely to do it in an experiment, to do it in a closed room and to find out what works and whether the citizens are still guaranteed the same standards and rights, even if some rules are removed. After all, we are talking a lot about paperwork and bureaucracy and rules and about time going from the core tasks, and what is being done about it? Yeah, it's like... to give the municipalities some opportunities to manage without a lot of rules. And in this way we can see whether welfare really is getting worse, because it could also be better by removing some rules. So we are doing this today with Bill L 61, and it supports the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145707	Thank you. And we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026145714	Thank you. Unfortunately, the SF's rapporteur could not be here, so I will read her speech: SF has already supported free municipalities in the past, and in this draft law there are also interesting attempts this time, which may help improve municipal efforts for citizens. However, like the latest draft law, we also have a number of comments and questions in relation to this draft law which we would like to have the opportunity to discuss in a forthcoming committee on the proposal. With regard to the proposal on the sharing of housing for young people and single women with children, it should be a precondition that both young and single women with children continue to have the right to be searched for their own home, while searching for collective residences presupposes that the young and/or single woman with children themselves want such a residence. We believe that this should be clarified. As regards the rental of young and elderly dwellings as integration homes and the extension of the local authority provision of private rental homes, we should note that SF is concerned that the purpose of the experiment is primarily economic governance, which is best understood as savings in the area. In the SF, we do not believe that attempts at free municipalities must unilaterally undermine citizens' rights, and we therefore propose that the proposal be withdrawn from the draft law with a view to reworking, which is based on a technically justified proposal. Concerning the derogation for accessibility for construction, it is a step backwards for the equality of citizens with disabilities. It should not be an objective of free municipalities to want to relax rights and, in particular, not accessibility requirements in relation to people with disabilities. SF is positive about cooperation, which ensures a better emergency function in the municipalities, but notes that it is important that the proposal takes into account the possibility of a multidisciplinary staff composition in the emergency nursing teams, as the FOA also points out. The SF also supports Danske Seniorer's comments on continuity, as it is important for the quality and security of the citizens of the scheme to ensure as far as possible that it is the same few people who attend to the citizen. SF is deeply concerned about flexibility, which presupposes the removal of the ceiling on class sizes, and SF backs in this regard on the Teachers' Association's call for the proposal to be withdrawn from the bill. The aim is not to reduce the learning environment of pupils, but rather to promote it through experimental schemes. SF proposes that the proposal be withdrawn from the proposal with a view to promoting the flexible learning environments without compromising existing legislation in this area. The SF recommends that the issues mentioned be discussed and dealt with in the Committee with a view to a common understanding and a clear clarification that free municipalities' attempts continue to aim to improve municipal efforts. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150008	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150015	The aim of the draft law is to provide free community networks with more experimental opportunities to establish new knowledge and gain practical experience, which can pave the way for a better task solution, which can then in turn lead to efficiency and regulatory simplification and better governance. Of course, the Conservative People's Party welcomes these attempts. In relation to the specific legislative proposal, I would like to highlight a few of the elements. The bill opens up the possibility of establishing cheaper housing in several forms. For example, the rules are relaxed in relation to shared housing and collectives, so that youth housing can be established, as well as opening up the possibility for large cities to set up shared housing for example. lone mothers, so that they can come from a shelter more quickly. It is, of course, inappropriate if the legislation is so square that in some cases it can be a brake on women in shelters being able to enter their own homes, so we are glad that it is part of the free-community attempt here. Then the bill also contains a number of other attempts on different types of low-cost housing, and I would like to highlight the possibility of setting up temporary housing, in other words an attempt to provide socially vulnerable young people with a housing offer where a framework can be created for appropriate interdisciplinary and rehabilitating support in their own homes. The opening up of opportunities to work with socially vulnerable young people is something that we in the Conservatives are very positive about. I do not want to list up all the experiments, but I want to say that the Conservative People's Party naturally welcomes the creative work being done in the municipal task solution so that the task is better or cheaper, more flexible and more flexible. It is a thinking that we are very much in favour of, and I hope that in this way, with these attempts, we can of course continue to learn more about how we can solve the tasks in the public sector, in the municipalities, etc., in a better way. Of course, the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150228	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150239	I would like to thank the Danish Parliament for the comments which have been made and which have been made in depth. A thorough work has been done around the world in relation to the issue of free municipalities networks. Overall, I am glad that there is a great deal of support in the Folketing for the idea that the municipalities can experiment in this way to make things a different way for the citizens, either when it is they who have to have a certain service from the public, or, you can say, when they are taxpayers, understood in the sense that the money is spent in the most sensible way and not for any unnecessary bureaucracy. There have been some comments on some of the specific proposals, and I would just like to make a few comments on them. I understand that a number of parties have comments on the proposal No. 8, i.e. functional accessibility requirements for new construction and conversion of existing dwellings. I should like to begin by pointing out that the attempt does not fully acknowledge that there may be a need to deepen it and to have the opportunity to ask some questions about it, and I just think we should have a dialogue on that. Then I can hope that the parties can be assured that we can also implement this element of the legislative proposal. Otherwise we will have to deal with it. It was both the Social Democrat rapporteur, the Danish People's Party rapporteur, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur and the SF rapporteur who mentioned this proposal. Then there are a few of the rapporteurs: Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party and Mr. Carl Valentin of the SF, who mentions something about proposal No. 2 • what is concerned with shared housing in relation to single mothers. Sir. In all fairness, Carl Valentin also mentioned the proposal in relation to young people. Our starting point is, of course, that in this case it is possible to get women out of crisis centres more quickly, and that is what I think is a very noble purpose in these municipalities. Whether or not to create more equality in this area, we will have to discuss it. I am very open to that, I would say to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. I think I'm more sceptical about SF's desire to drop the idea, as I heard the comments from Mr. Carl Valentin. In addition, both SF and Enhedslisten had a number of comments on the two primary school proposals, and there I would just appeal that SF and Enhedslisten choose the same approach that I had to the latest draft law on free municipalities attempt. There we gave permission for some municipalities to experiment with so-called buying-in services. I think that's a horrible idea... a horrible one. That's my political point of view. But I still think we should give the opportunity to test it and see if my prejudice is correct or if it could be refuted. This is where I think that, for SF and Enhedslisten, when it comes to these school proposals, proposals 12 and 13 maybe it was in fact only one of the proposals for SF, and then I apologize for being that their prejudices were denied. I would say that there is nothing as liberating as denying prejudice. I think we should try to think about that with ourselves, i.e. if we say, like me, once in a while: okay, we start an experiment that I am not in favour of immediately. Then it may be that one gets the liberating experience or that the opposite happens: that one gets the confirmation of one's prejudice and then it may be that one can convince a majority in the Folketing that it is certainly not something that we should go ahead with. It is just to say: these free municipalities are such collective laws, and it will always be the case that there will be something you think is fantastic and something you think is less fantastic if we are to say that it is out locally, the experiments must come from, and not something we should sit in here and agree on. When I hear the comments that have been made by the party rapporteurs, I hear that with individual corrections, all parties except Enhedslisten and SF are ready to back the proposal in some edited version. It may be that I can also bring one or two more parties. In fact, the latest proposal succeeded in getting eight of the nine parties of the Folketing to support it. I am prepared to engage in an individual dialogue with all the parties' rapporteurs so that we can clarify any misunderstandings or disagreements, so that we can have as broad a majority as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150756	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150758	Thank you, and thank you to the Minister, for addressing the various comments as well. I have noticed that the Minister usually does, and I think that is a very pleasant thing. And even though we often don't agree exactly when we get to the bottom line, I think that's a nice way to discuss it. I am so sorry that the Minister describes Enhedslisten's view of these two or three as prejudices in fact. Well, in our view, it is very clear principles that are written into the primary school law that we just do not want to break with. And for one thing, there have been some attempts, so we have also, like the Danish Teacher's Association, found it difficult to see what the purpose of further attempts in this area should be. And then perhaps it should be mentioned that the school students can see some major problems in this. So it was just to say that a good dialogue also presupposes that the specific objections of the political opponents should not be branded as prejudices. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150903	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026150905	Now it was not to stamp anyone, and if so, I branded myself exactly the same way as I stamped Mr. Finn Sørensen. And if I can expose myself to that, you'd think it wasn't more unpleasant than that it was possible for Mr. Finn Sørensen to be exposed to the same thing. I would also like to say that the example I gave from the legislation of the previous free-community experiment was also true of the fact that the attempt which I myself opposed had been made in the past as a minor attempt to remind us of it. It was not in fact to decide whether it was well-argued or not well-argued what Enhedslisten thinks in the areas in question. It was only to say that I think it is important, if we are to get through with some free municipality attempts, that we all have an open mind, so that we also allow attempts that are not immediately part of our own party programme and are not immediately within our own ideological disc. Because only in this way can we get through the Folketing with broad support that a number of different experiments are being made.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151009	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151011	Thank you. But that's where this debate gets out of hand all the time, isn't it? Because if the Minister listened to my rapporteur's speech, he could hear that I actually mentioned a handful of proposed attempts, about which I said: 'Well, it is not really the Enhedslisten's cup of tea, but it should not necessarily stop us from trying it'. We'll set the line when you, like Mr. Knox... Carl Holst said so well and my doubts then are whether the Left has always lived up to it: we should not attempt to undermine citizens' rights, nor should we make attempts which, of course, are in principle contrary to Enhedslisten's policy. So can we not just have the nuance in the debate that we have different views about what is important when we have to assess such legislative proposals?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151101	Then it's the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151103	I always think it might be good to quote the rapporteur of the Left, but I assume that there was a sentence in the sentence which Mr. Finn Sørensen said, so you don't quote Mr. Sørensen. Carl Holst to say that it is important to ensure the principles of Enhedslisten's policy. I know you didn't mean that, but that's how the quote came to appear in its entirety. There are things here that are contrary to the principles of all parties. There are also things here that are consistent with the principles of all parties. And it's fair enough that Enhedslisten has the view that this would be a deterioration. I think that's quite fair. I do not have the view that it is either an improvement or a deterioration. I have the view that the fact that one can do the teaching in a different way could of course find that there was something positive about which we do not immediately see it as it is today. It's just what we want tested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151200	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief remarks and no more have asked for the floor, so the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151215	The debate is open. Mrs Karin Gaardsted, the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151238	Thank you for the floor. The draft law is about better protection of the marine environment in the area between 3 nautical miles and 200 nautical miles off the coasts of Greenland. That part of the sea is Danish competence, and therefore the legislation must take place here from the Chamber, naturally in close cooperation with Inatsisartut. This is particularly vulnerable maritime area and everyone agrees that maritime traffic has increased in recent years and that we can expect even more ships either fishing there, travelling with tourists or sailing from Asia or Russia towards ports in the North or Northern Europe. The possibility of passing through the North-East Passage will also significantly increase shipping traffic in the area in the future. It is therefore absolutely necessary to get legislation in place so that there is no doubt that we will not accept pollution of the vulnerable marine environment off the coasts of Greenland. At the same time, this is where the Greenlandic people get their food from and also get a large part of the food exported to other countries. It calls for special protection. The draft law introduces provisions on the impact of ships on the marine environment, for example: the discharge of oil and waste by ships, rules on environmental preparedness, i.e. the fight against oil and chemical pollution of the sea, and the draft law also clarifies the tasks and responsibilities of the various authorities in relation to the protection of the marine environment in Greenland. The Social Democratic Party supports the bill, but at the same time we would urge the Minister to listen to and act in some specific areas, as the Department of Nature and the Environment and the Justice in particular has pointed out in their hearing response. There has to be large sums of money which are in really large fines to the shipping companies that pollute, especially in view of the costly control of the vast sea area. So severe sanctions and fines are needed against those who violate the rules. It must be clear that we will not accept pollution. I would like to ask the Minister to address the issue of the dumping of seabed material. It is proposed that it should be legal to dump everything that has been pulled from the seabed. The department in Greenland wants a tightening up, and I think we should listen to that. Greenland's police are asking in their response to the question of how control and supervision should be carried out, since they rarely fall outside the 3-mile limit and do not have the necessary knowledge to carry out these checks. And yes, I guess it's a little difficult to find the resources, that is, the time, for it. In addition, there is a significant point from the Greenland police that there is a risk of confusion between the exercise of authority between investigation and supervision. The Minister might perhaps be able to coordinate with the Minister for Defence the need for control and supervision that this law creates, which is currently negotiating the new defence settlement. I hope that the Minister will respond to these calls in his reply here in a moment. The bill has been dealt with in Inatsisartut, and here there is great and broad support, and that is also what we in the Social Democratic Party are doing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151620	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Henrik Brodersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151629	Thank you, sir. President. Apart from the excellent presentation given here by the previous rapporteur, I can only endorse the proposal, but have some comments that I would like to make along the way. The background, as the previous rapporteur mentioned, lies in the fact that there is an increase in activity in the area, and there are far too many people who may have an interest in being in the area, and perhaps not just to the good side, if one can put it that way. This addresses some issues about everything from ballast water to what you do with your waste, its waste management, at sea, and there we can say that it is not always to the good side. I think it has to be said that this legislation tightens up very much of what is going on out there, but it also requires that you have a monitoring body that can handle all these things. If we have had this statement earlier today, where we repeatedly confirmed each other in how vulnerable it is, then of course we must also look within the three-mile limit and ensure that the coasts are cleaned up in every way. Then in this bill there are some exceptions to some pleasure craft etc. etc., and we have no problem with that. With this legislation, the Minister is given a great deal of authority, and perhaps there are also some connections to some conventions. We don't always feel comfortable with that. Now we know who is the minister today, but we do not know that in ten years' time, and that is why we will have a sharp look at whether this is going to be done in a rather similar way according to the book. But I can say that the Danish People's Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151842	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mr. Marcus Knuth, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026151848	This bill will provide an updated legal basis for the protection of the Greenlandic marine environment in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland. This is also necessary, in the view of the Left, because we see and have seen it myself during my recent visit to Greenland. It has created a need to provide the current legislation with a clean-up and update to ensure sustainability and consideration for the precious marine environment. Personally, I also welcome this priority, because if there is something we should safeguard, it is nature and the environment in Greenland. It is extremely fragile and, of course, the development of society must be taken into account at the same time. In concrete terms, this draft law extends most of the rules in the applicable marine environment device, in adapted and modified form. As I said, this is to ensure a modern and up-to-date legal basis for the protection of the marine environment. These include, for example, provisions on the discharge of waste and oil from ships, rules on reporting obligations in the event of non-compliance and rules on the protection of the environment on ships. This is all something that needs to be controlled and clear rules on so that social development can take place on a sustainable basis in respect of animal and plant life. In addition, I am particularly pleased that the Greenlandic authorities themselves have requested such updates and that the Greenlandic Landsting itself endorsed the proposal in the spring. That is how the Left supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152034	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152038	I'd like to hear Mr. Knox. Marcus Knuth about something. If he is now saying that it should be on a sustainable basis, it would not be better to say that discharges to the sea were banned, instead of just saying that we are tightening up a bit or, for example, we are tightening up a little. ban the use of heavy fuel oil, of which all countries are currently discussing the use? Is it not better to ban and make clear rules, otherwise there is nothing sustainable in the rules?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152106	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152106-2	I think this is a very, very good step in the right direction. I understand very well what the rapporteur means, but the rules that are currently in place must already be applied in relation to the environment. This will make it possible to go even further with regard to the environment. But there must also be an opportunity for ships to sail in those waters.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152125	Thank you. - Do you want to see him? - Yes, sir. Juhl to ask another question? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152131	If this is to be a law that does not just apply for the next 14 days or a few months in the future, then it must also point out something that needs to be said about shipping, precisely that discharge must be prohibited and that heavy fuel oil is not used in these sensitive areas. I think, however, that one could be so visionary that when one makes a law, it is also said that this is where we come up in a short time and why not ensure that the legislation contains it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152206	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152207	I hope now that this law will apply for longer than 14 days. However, as I said, this must be done with regard to the development of society, to the shipping already in the region. And then this bill has already been approved in the Greenlandic Landsting, and so it is something that has been drawn up and will be enforced together.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152230	Thank you, sir. Marcus Knuth. And we move on to Mr. Christian Juhl as rapporteur for the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152236	In the Enhedslisten we find it very positive that the bill creates a basis for better protection of the vulnerable marine environment in Greenland. However, we would like to remind you that it is, of course, crucial for the marine environment, how the powers granted by the legislative proposal are completed and how many resources are made available to implement and enforce them. Others have also asked questions about this, so I hope the Minister will give an answer to that. Although we generally welcome the draft law, it is very unfortunate that the text of the draft law in several places is far too vague and in some places totally unambitious. The comments on the draft law stress that in the drafting of the rules the emphasis will be placed on not laying down stricter requirements than what international conventions require. I think it's a mistake over at the Ministry. One must have miswritten or been a little superficial in proofreading. It should surely have been said that emphasis will be placed on not making weaker rules than what international conventions require. I hope the Minister can answer that. If it is to be taken at face value, we find in the Enhedslisten that it is a very problematic approach to protecting a vulnerable marine area to say that it should not go beyond international conventions. We should, of course, aim for the best possible conservation of the Greenlandic marine environment and not just for what can be agreed in slow-moving international conventions. We also believe that one of the points in the draft law, which could also stand sharper, relates to discharges to the sea. We believe that instead of allowing the Minister for the Environment and Food to lay down detailed rules for discharges into the sea, the law should lay down a proper ban so that it corresponds to the Greenlandic marine environment law applicable to the territorial sea, which prohibits discharges, contrary to what the rapporteur of the Left suggested. There is, in fact, a ban in Greenlandic legislation. At the same time, of course, we call for Greenland to remove the derogation that they have in the Marpol Convention on Discharge. Because it must also be the case that you not only have a intention but that you actually live by it. So it was a little love to our Greenlandic friends. The Enhedslisten would also like to see the law put in place a ban on the use of heavy fuel oil, which is highly problematic from an environmental, climate and health perspective. For example, you have... introduced it in the area around Svalbard, and of course it would also make sense to introduce it here. In addition, we would like the law to ensure cooperation between Danish and Greenlandic authorities on the designation of marine protected areas and the vulnerable marine areas identified by the World Wildlife Fund in their consultation response. If we are to achieve targets by 2020 in relation to the Biodiversity Convention, it is important to speed up the designation, and cooperation between the authorities is, of course, the prerequisite for sensible appointments. Finally, the Enhedslisten welcomes the fact that the bill also covers areas with sea ice, but we would like to emphasise that the ice-free areas that lie like huge lakes inside the sea ice areas are particularly important for marine ecosystems. And the law should ensure that these areas are kept completely free of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152610	A brief comment from Mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152613	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Sir. Christian Juhl was among others. I would like to say that we must ensure that the marine environment around Greenland is as secure as possible, and I can only agree with that, of course. In addition, Mr. Christian Juhl quite a bit about banning one thing and the other and banning all sorts of things. So I just want to know if it's okay, sir. Christian Juhl in fact believes that we should ban ship traffic in Greenland altogether in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152643	I wasn't talking about banning everything. I was talking about two prohibitions. One is the ban on discharges into the sea, which is currently in the Greenlandic law on the territorial sea; it is not something special. And the second is that we prohibit the use of heavy fuel oil, with which the most visionary shipping companies long ago work. It is not a question of banning shipping. On the contrary, it is something about making shipping sustainable and ensuring that those who think about the environment are also the ones who have the best conditions. We all have a joint responsibility to ensure this, including the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152717	We thank the rapporteur. And we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr. Carsten Bach of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152730	Today we are discussing bill L 53, because in recent years there has been an increase in maritime traffic in the sea areas of Greenland. Sir. Marcus Knuth was among others. I should like to point out that we are a number of Members of Parliament who have been so fortunate that we have been able to see this phenomenon for ourselves. The increase in maritime traffic is expected to continue, and this has created a need to look at the regulation of the area to ensure that we can continue to protect the very unique Greenlandic marine environment. This bill then introduces provisions on the impact of ships on the marine environment and rules on environmental preparedness. In addition, the draft law clarifies the tasks and responsibilities of the various authorities in relation to the protection of the marine environment in Greenland. At the moment, the area is regulated by the Danish Marine Environment Act, but with this bill we will have the first independent law for Greenland on the protection of the marine environment. The law will to a large extent resemble and follow the Danish marine environmental legislation, but it will of course also take into account the very special Greenlandic conditions. That is why, for example, the proposal does not contain EU legislation. The bill is necessary to ensure an updated legal basis for protecting the Greenlandic marine environment in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland. At the same time, the draft law provides for better protection of the environment. That is why we in the Liberal Alliance are also positive and we will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152918	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Christian Juhl.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026152919	Sir. Carsten Bach said he agreed that this is a vulnerable marine environment. Now he had a question for me earlier that we did not quite finish discussing. Does the rapporteur not think that it might be sensible to ban some of the worst pollutants, since it is technically possible to make shipping without these substances, for example? Heavy fuel oil? This can be done in Svalbard, which is also a very busy area. Why, then, should this not be possible in what the rapporteur himself says is a vulnerable marine environment? There, of course, special consideration must be given. There you have to be careful not just to say: well, we have to look at that once the paramedics have spent the money on the means of propulsion needed to take account; then we will wait for that time. Is it not up to us to say: yes, it is true that it is a vulnerable environment and, indeed, it is true that we must then ban some of the worst substances?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153016	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153017	Thank you for the question. When we get the minutes of the sitting, I think we should go back and see if I used the word vulnerable. Actually, I don't remember if I did. But at least I said unique. And then I'm gonna give mr. Christian Juhl is right in saying that there are certainly vulnerable marine areas and marine environments. That is why we must also be aware of what we are doing. But there are also other things we need to be aware of, which are also vulnerable in and around Greenland. This is something like economic development and other things. And we also have to take that into account, which is why this is a balancing act. I fully agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that it is interesting what is going on around Svalbard, and how to apply regulation there; we must be aware of that, we must learn from that, and we must also include the experiences they experience there. But I do not agree with Mr. Christian Juhl in that a ban is the way forward.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153113	The questioner's gotten into it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153119	I would like to say to the rapporteur, however, that there is no point in talking about it. We have now worked throughout our adult lives with a model that says that we must try to wait and see how things are going, and that this should certainly not be detrimental to companies' earnings. And what do we have now? We have filled the seas with plastic residue, which we can barely get rid of again and which it will take decades to clean up. We have destroyed nature and the environment in square miles around this globe, some of it totally irreparable. We have ruined life in the North Sea in many places. Should we not take a little more responsibility and say that we must then adjust our production and transport according to what nature can stand to, and thus also ban the worst substances?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153208	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153209	Thank you again for your comments. Sir. Christian Juhl's adult life has then been a little longer than mine, and so it may also be that the impatience has occurred with Mr. Christian Juhl. It doesn't have that with me. I think we should be careful to include plastic pollution and everything else in this context. I had the pleasure of debating plastic pollution yesterday on the Blue Planet. And exactly when we talk about plastic contamination, I think we miss a lot of knowledge and gathering there. I'm just still not in agreement with Mr. Knox. Christian Juhl in that prohibition is the way to solve these problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153248	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153253	Thank you very much. After all, the proposal has been thoroughly examined by successive rapporteurs. It is a proposal for the first independent law on the protection of the marine environment in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland. And, of course, we are really, really positive about an up-to-date legal basis, a clearer division of responsibilities, rules on environmental preparedness and the impact of ships on the marine environment. But we would have liked the law to have been much more ambitious on behalf of the environment, and then, like Mr. Christian Juhl also said that emphasis would be placed on not that is the completely reversed world, because in our view it is not ambitious at all on behalf of Greenland and certainly not on behalf of the Arctic marine environment in this way to be restricted by international conventions. Instead, we should use the opportunity to set standards as to what level we wanted for these international conventions. Sir. After all, Christian Juhl has also just mentioned that there are several other lessons we can learn from in terms of how to deal with the marine environment, for example. around Svalbard. Both the possible ban on heavy fuel oil, which we know is technically feasible, have been mentioned, while at the same time there is still sensible shipping, and the ban on discharges, which in general will push the development towards more sustainable shipping. Fortunately, a number of points have also been made, and as a final comment I have made, we must, of course, pay attention to the Greenland Police Commissioner's response. In fact, Greenland's police chief says that the tasks and supervision function for which the proposal is a continuation, the police have neither professional expertise nor resource requirements. And that must of course concern more places than in the Greenland Committee. I think that we in the committee must be able to ask, for example. The Minister of Justice, whether it is not a problem that a regulatory authority itself considers not to have the possibility of maintaining professionally competent supervision. Having said that, we still support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153528	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on in the rapporteur's line to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153533	It is a very important theme that we are dealing with today, because it is about the very vulnerable and absolutely fantastic marine environment that is around Greenland, which is unique and which, of course, needs to be taken care of very well. That is why it is an important step that is being taken today, when the issue of competence between Denmark and Greenland is clarified in relation to this. It is clear that the three nautical miles from the coast up to 200 nautical miles are Danish competence and that it must therefore have its own real law, and we think this is a very good idea. As someone who has worked very much himself in international contexts, both with the Ballast Water Convention and sulphur pollution, I know how important it is to have that pollution regulated. It is also good that, as far as I can see, the Minister is now promising to use his powers to put in place a genuine ban on discharges in subsequent coinage of this. We would like to ask the Minister, when he may be taking the floor, how is international cooperation going to make a real conservation of parts of the Polar Sea? I mean, how are those negotiations going? Moving forward, and what does Denmark actually do in this area? In the case of Radicals, it is very important that we move forward with those partners who, of course, all have a right and an interest in finding a way of protecting some parts. So the Radicals can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153708	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mr. Carl Valentin, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153712	Thank you. This bill is supposed to be one of those. update the regulation of the marine areas in Greenland to ensure that the protection of the marine environment in Greenland corresponds to the increasing activities and the resulting risk of pollution. The bill will be the first independent law for Greenland on the protection of the marine environment and will replace the previous marine environment regulation from 2004. Provision is made for the impact of ships on the marine environment, e.g.: the discharge of oil and waste by ships, rules on environmental preparedness, i.e. the fight against oil and chemical pollution of the sea, and the draft law also clarifies the tasks and responsibilities of the various authorities in relation to the protection of the marine environment in Greenland. It's a rather technical proposal, but the basics of this are important. We need to take care of our marine waters. We must ensure that they are not contaminated and that the ships on the seas treat the seas properly. As a starting point, we are positive about the proposal, but in fact we believe that Denmark and Greenland should have negotiated a law that has a higher level of protection against the vulnerable marine areas of Greenland. This regulation reminds me, as far as I can see, of the Danish regulation, but in our optics it is worth discussing whether to go even further to protect marine waters. For example, the WWF states that they would have liked to see several of the provisions of the proposal on discharge formulated as a prohibition in line with Section 22 of the draft law, which contains a ban on dumping. That is how they and Greenpeace have several proposals that we think are worth looking at in committee, but overall we think it is a necessary and good proposal that we support.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153902	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur I see in the Chamber is Mrs Aaja Chemnitz Larsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026153908	Thanks for the bill. Inuit Ataqatigiit welcomes the first independent draft law on the protection of the marine environment in the exclusive economic zone around Greenland. We note that it has been prepared in close dialogue with Naalaksuisut and takes account of Greenland's conditions. This means, among other things, that no EU legislation is taken into account, which is appropriate in this context, given that Greenland is not a member of the European Union. The bill is adapted to the reality and geographical conditions that exist in Greenland, which is positive and a step in the right direction. Often we find that royal devices put Danish laws or parts of Danish laws into force for Greenland. These do not always relate to the different social conditions or different geographical conditions that exist across Denmark and Greenland. Therefore, Inuit Ataqatigiit is pleased that this bill is the first independent law for Greenland on the protection of the Greenlandic marine environment. In Greenland we live off the sea and the resources in the sea. Fishing is still our main occupation, and at the same time we see that tourism in Greenland is saying. An increased activity in the sea around Greenland increases the need for a clear framework for the protection of the marine environment. The main message of the bill is that the polluter pays, and we think that is fair and appropriate. We also note that the government's own Arctic analysis in the field of defence found that there is a need to strengthen surveillance throughout Greenland. This is true both on land, in the air, but also when it comes to Greenland's marine area. From the Inuit Ataqatigiits side, we are particularly concerned about how the government will strengthen the surveillance of ships, submarines, etc. in Greenland's waters in the exclusive economic zone. We therefore call on the government to help ensure that there will be enhanced surveillance throughout Greenland. The bill notes we are being followed by a series of announcements, which we support from Inuit Ataqatigiits, and overall we agree with the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154128	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Then it's mr. Rasmus Jarlov, the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154141	I shall be very brief as the last in line here and say that we also agree with the draft law. There is a need for stronger legislation in this area, and in relation to Greenland's own opportunities to take care of the area, we also believe that this is the right thing to do. I am also pleased to see that there seems to be very broad support for the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154211	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154216	Thank you for that, President. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for their comments. The background to the bill is the need to update the marine environment rules in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland in order to ensure better protection of the marine environment in the area. I am pleased to stand here at the first reading of the legislative proposal which is intended to ensure that we have the right framework and conditions to meet that concern. Protection of the marine environment in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland, i.e. from 3 nautical miles from the coast up to 200 nautical miles, is Danish competence, and the area is currently regulated by a 2004 Royal Decree which put parts of the then Danish marine environment law into force for Greenland. The marine environment in the territorial sea of Greenland, i.e. within 3 nautical miles, is Greenlandic competence. In recent years there has been an increase in human activity in the sea areas of Greenland and further increases in maritime traffic are to be expected in the coming years. Therefore, there is a need to update the regulation of the area to ensure that the protection of the marine environment in Greenland corresponds to the development and the associated risk of pollution. This is done primarily by updating the applicable rules on the basis of international marine environmental rules that apply to Greenland. The Greenland authorities have asked for an update of the marine environment rules for the exclusive economic zone, so the rules will correspond to the rules for the territorial sea, where Greenland has adopted a similar amendment to the law. It should be mentioned that the regulation of marine environment conditions in the exclusive economic zone of Greenland is different in several respects from the Danish marine environment law. Among other things: regulation shall not contain Union legislation and regulation concerning coasts and ports. The overall aim of the bill is to protect the marine environment in Greenland, and the proposal also clarifies the tasks and responsibilities of the various authorities in relation to the protection of the marine environment in Greenland. The draft law contains a provision on the impact of ships on the marine environment, for example. the discharge of oil and waste by ships. In addition, the draft law contains rules on environmental preparedness, i.e.: combating oil and chemical pollution of the sea and introducing rules on the treatment of ballast water for ships, the purpose of which is to prevent and limit the introduction of invasive species. In order to ensure compliance with the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the applicable intervention provisions are updated, i.e.: the ability of the authorities to intervene against ships, including the ability of the authorities to issue injunctions or prohibitions to prevent or combat pollution of the sea or air. As something new, a 5-year period is introduced instead of a 2-year limitation period for certain infringements of the law, and this corresponds to the applicable limitation period in the Danish Marine Environment Act. The reason for the five-year limitation period is that hidden infringements can occur, e.g.: illegal discharge of oil where the infringement is only discovered at a much later stage. The bill was discussed at the Spring session of the Greenland Landsting 2017 which, on 18 May 2017, endorsed the Danish bill. I hope that the Danish Parliament agrees that Denmark should adopt the bill and it is proposed to enter into force on 1 January 2018. With regard to part of what was addressed, I would just like to mention, in relation to what the Socialist rapporteur said, that with regard to the part of the fine, there are comments in the draft law on Article 45 statements about it, that is to say, in the sense that the Ministry of Defence will look at that part of it. In relation to dumping there is a clear indication in Section 20 of the Act that dumping is not permitted and that it can be given special permission, but then it requires very, very thorough investigations etc. of what might be dumped. And in relation to what the Socialist rapporteur also addressed, i.e. the whole environmental monitoring part, there is today a very, very close coordination between the Greenlandic and Danish authorities in this area. In relation to the remarks made by the radical rapporteur on the conservation of the Polar Sea, I would like to say that this is a little outside the scope of the legislative proposal we are discussing, but I would like to send a progress report to the radical rapporteur so that the rapporteur can have an overview of what is really going on and where we are time-consuming about it. I look forward to further treatment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154641	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Greenland Committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154658	The debate is open. Sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154714	Thank you. It is quite a technical legislative proposal that gives rise to new concepts to be learned. It is a legislative proposal that implements two directives, the directive on extraction waste and the MCP directive. The draft law allows the Minister to lay down rules for extraction waste facilities relating to their operation and pollution. As far as I understand, we do not have such facilities in Denmark, but it can be said that we are armed, if some of them have to be built. In relation to the MCP directive, it is new that citizens and not only organisations can have access to MCP plants, i.e. in the pollution of combustion plants and the like. We think this is sensible proposals and the Social Democrats can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154800	Thank you to the rapporteur. We move on to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154803	Thank you. When I had to present the proposal to my parliamentary group this morning, I started by saying that it was probably the most boring proposal I had read for a long time. It's not that it's not important, but it's just very, very boring and very, very dry. I think that the Socialist rapporteur has explained very briefly and precisely what this is all about, and we can also support it on the part of the Danish People's Party. I have just one comment to make, and it is that just when you sit and look at the first page, you can see that there are a lot of powers for the minister. I simply feel obliged to say that it is possible that we have a reasonable minister now, but we do not know if we have that next time. You always have to notice that. So authorization to the Minister is a matter of course. If you have as good a case as you think you have, so that you can convince everyone else and you just have to be allowed to do so, then I think it is right to take it down to the Parliamentary Chamber, and then we can all be very brief. I just want that to be my comment. But the Danish People's Party supports the matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154912	Thank you to the rapporteur. We shall move on to the rapporteur's report. Erling Bonnesen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154922	Thank you. It is a long, technical proposal, but the exercise here is to make the shortest rapporteur speeches, so since the draft law has been examined by both the previous two rapporteurs, I can only say that since this is quite reasonable, of course the Left also supports this bill. And then I should say hello to the Liberal Alliance and say that they also support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154949	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we move on to Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026154953	Thank you very much. As others have also mentioned, this is a legislative proposal to implement two EU directives. The first is the Mining Waste Directive, and in reality it has limited real significance in Denmark, since very rarely extractions or investigations are carried out here that create this type of waste. There has been a single sample drilling after shale gas in North Jutland that created waste of this nature. The second directive to be implemented by the legislative proposal is the so-called MCP directive, which deals with regulating air pollutants from combustion plants, for example. district heating systems. The directive must provide for access to information on, for example: self-checks and operating records of establishments or monitoring data showing, for example, whether: the emission limit values have been complied with. It is an openness that the Enhedslisten supports, so we therefore support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155055	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155101	Thank you very much. As our environmental rapporteur, Mr. Christian Poll, could not be here today, I have taken a very brief message from him: the alternative can support the proposal. The proposal deals with two rather different cases, of which the provision of information for MCP installations is quite obvious for the alternative to support. This leads to greater openness, as is also highlighted in the comments on the proposal. The second part of the proposal concerns the correct transposition of the Mining Waste Directive into Danish legislation. In Denmark, it is the extraction of shale gas that is at stake. The alternative is very concerned that if, unfortunately, the extraction of shale gas should one day be authorised, there should be maximum certainty that Danish authorities can enforce rules ensuring maximum protection for humans, groundwater, the environment and nature. That is why we can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155150	Thank you to the rapporteur. And we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155154	I shall be very brief, because the draft law has been examined by various other rapporteurs, and I can only say that the Radical Left supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155207	Thank you. And that did not give rise to any brief comments either. Then it's Mrs. Trine Torp, SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155215	Yes, things are moving fast today, so it will be a little the same message from the SF that the bill implements EU legislation in Danish law and that we from the SF on the general level have no comment on it. We think that's fine. We welcome the fact that EU law helps individuals to gain access to information from companies covered by the MCP Directive. It is also positive that improvements will now be made so that the smoke from smaller plants and biomass plants in particular will contain fewer particles, nitrogen compounds, etc. So the SF can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155256	Thank you. I don't see any more rapporteurs... Yes, I do. Mrs Mette Abildgaard, Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155309	Sorry, it went a little bit faster in this Chamber than I had just anticipated. But I will be very brief and announce that the Conservative People's Party supports this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155321	This did not give rise to any brief comments either. Then it's the Minister for the Environment and Food.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155328	Thank you for that, President, and thank the rapporteurs for their comments. I am pleased that we, the various rapporteurs and I, can stand here today in order to have two EU directives updated and implemented, on the one hand, the directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries, also known as the Mining Waste Directive, and, on the other hand, the directive on the limitation of certain air pollutants from medium-sized combustion plants, the so-called MCP Directive. The implementation of the Mining Waste Directive has a long history. This means that implementation has taken a number of years. As regards the extraction waste part, the draft law is prompted by a reasoned opinion from the Commission on 26 February 2016. In response to the reasoned opinion, the Government became aware that the existing regulation in the Order on the Management of Extraction Waste leads to the fact that not all waste facilities are regulated by the Mining Waste Directive that can be authorised. This has not been the intention, and the legislative proposal must remedy it, so that plants which do not meet the definition of a landfill can be approved in future, and where extraction waste can only be handled. Denmark has informed the Commission that this will be corrected in 2017. We are now trying to put an end to this by inserting the necessary provisions into the environmental protection law and subsequently organizing the administrative provisions. On the other hand, the MCP directive is a new EU directive aimed at reducing air pollution from a number of medium-sized combustion plants. In Denmark we have long had national regulation in this area, but for the rest of the European Union the directive is expected to contribute in the long term to a significant reduction in pollution. The aim of the draft law is twofold: firstly, to ensure the full implementation of the Mining Waste Directive by providing legal and legal bases for regulating extraction waste management plants, so that in future rules can also be laid down for the installation and handling of extraction waste where extraction waste is handled exclusively; and secondly, to provide the necessary legal basis for implementing a single point of the MCP Directive to be able to obtain information on emissions and similar from companies when individuals request it. The draft law therefore introduces an authorisation for the Minister to lay down rules on it. The provision is formulated so that the Minister may also lay down similar rules in other notices if necessary to fulfil EU legal obligations. For the remainder of the MCP Directive, the necessary legal basis in the Environmental Protection Act is already in place. The implementation of the directives is the result of legislative changes and the adoption of notices as a follow-up. With the Mining Waste Directive, a regulatory framework has been established at EU level to ensure that extraction waste is handled most safely in order to avoid accidents. In Denmark, extraction or explorations which create extraction waste are rarely carried out. So far, only a test drilling has been carried out in North Jutland, and there are currently no plans in Denmark for the establishment of installations for the management of extraction waste. With the draft law, we can thus end several of the Commission's letters of formal notice in an area without, however, the great practical significance for Denmark. For emissions of pollutants and combustion in medium-sized combustion plants have not already been regulated at EU level, and we already have one point, apart from being able to obtain information on emissions and the like from companies at the request of individuals, a national legislation covering the rule of the directive. In those words, I would like to see a good discussion of the legislative proposal in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155659	Thank you, Minister. No one has asked for brief comments. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155717	The debate is open. Welcome to sir. Christian Rabjerg Madsen, Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155729	Thank you. The last legal procedure was a little technical, but now we're going to talk about something else. I don't know if killer snails can come with us, but at least we need to talk about invasive species. We are discussing a legislative proposal to create the basis for combating invasive species in Denmark. This is important as the spread of invasive species can have major consequences for Danish biodiversity. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that it is at the heart of biodiversity that the EU regulation on invasive species and the EU list of prohibited invasive species have been implemented nationally. In addition, we believe that the additional national list of plant varieties and animal species specifically invasive in Denmark is a step further along the path that will do something positive for our biodiversity. I am convinced that a national list will reduce the threat posed by invasive species to animals and plants originally found in Danish nature. It can be said that it is not every day that we see a green proposal from the government, so we welcome it when it happens. In social democracy, we believe that the restriction of invasive species is important and that is why, of course, we support the proposal. Similarly, when we sat in government and made Nature Plan Denmark, we wanted stronger action against invasive species, and that is why it is positive that is now being added to a national list. The Ministry envisages a sensible weighting for business and nature considerations, both in relation to the criteria to be met by species in order to be included in a national prohibition list, and also in relation to the considerations surrounding the transitional regime contained in the proposal. In relation to the technical adjustment of Annex 1 to the Marine Strategy Act, I believe that the adjustments are sensible. They provide a consistent and consistent implementation of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party can support the overall bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155920	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments, so we move on to Mrs Pia Adelsteen, the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026155930	Thank you. As the previous rapporteur says, these are proposals for amending the law on nature protection and the law on marine strategy and invasive species. A while ago we got an action plan against invasive species, and my then secretary printed a fine picture of a clothes duck with little glasses and put it on the outside of the briefcase and said, "Is it like this?" And no, of course it wasn't, but it was quite funny. When you read the action plan against invasive species, you see that it says that the spread of species is dynamic, and it is therefore a concrete assessment whether species that occur close to Denmark should be described as indigenous species. That is the one thing I want to say. The second point is that it also says: invasive species are a subset of non-domestic species that occur invasively and which cause unwanted impacts on natural ecosystems or on economics, societies and human health. Then you start to think a little and say: what is undesirable? What is it that is wanted? When I say that, it is of course also with reference to some of the comments in the draft law, where it is clearly made up that the roses are unwanted, but that it is not wolves. It's a discussion we can always take. That's not what I really want to talk about, but it certainly tells me that this is also a lot about assessing what you think should be here and what you think should not be here. It also says that it is not likely to be possible to remove everyone, for example. White-necked shrubs. It will simply cost too much. At least that's how I read it. So there is, on the one hand, that there is something that may be invasive, on the other hand, that there is something that may be unwanted, and, on the other hand, that there is something that may be non-resident. But then there's this whole problem of what we're gonna do and whether we're gonna do anything at all. As Mr. Christian Rabjerg Madsen started by saying: If we are talking about killer snails, I think that a lot of people are doing a lot, because you would rather not have destroyed all my crops at home in the herb garden or my flowers for that matter. But if it is the neighbor's hyphen hedge, then I think you might rather go in and ask if you can pick the hyphen and make some jam, because it actually tastes pretty good. So there's a difference. I think it is remarkable that over the last 300 years in Denmark a total of 2.462 non-domestic species have been registered. That's a lot. 1.798 of them were plant species, which were 600 animal species and 4 fungus species. In any case, we need to find out what we are doing there, which is why I think it is very good that the Minister is making a national list and saying: what is going on, where are we going to make an effort, and what are we actually going to do? I have been in municipal politics for many years, and bear claws are one of the things that you fight very, very many places, and I would say it is something like that. I think it is very good that we have made a few stricter requirements and stricter rules, because then we hope that they can be removed completely. In relation to the technical adjustment of Annex 1 to the Marine Strategy Act, we in the Danish People's Party have no comments. I think, however, that I should like to finish off with one thing, because some people brought it to my attention. This is precisely the definition of non-domestic species and invasive species. I was told that Sikh deer originally did not belong in Denmark and that pheasants were imported from China. This is just the kind of thing we don't think about today, because today we just have pheasants. We even put them out ourselves if we think they should. But I think it certainly provides food for thought. So in those words, I would say that the Danish People's Party can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160331	Thank you. There is one brief comment from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160337	I have to protest and insist on a certain level of objectivity in this discussion. I would just like to read to the rapporteur what invasive species are: they are animals and plants that are spread to areas to which they would not be able to spread themselves and which have a negative effect on the original biodiversity. These are not species that the Danish People's Party does not like. It's just like that, so we've made it clear. Therefore invasive species do not include the wolf. It has spread itself, it has come home to the Danish nature, and it has a positive impact on biodiversity. We can easily discuss wolves, but it is not and never will be an invasive species.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160423	Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160425	But I don't think I said that either. I just said that when you read it, the definition is precisely different, and that makes the rose hips invasive, but the wolf is not. That's kind of what I said. So in this way we are in agreement. However, I also said that when you read the action plan itself, it says that invasive species are a subset of non-resident species that occur invasively and that cause unwanted impacts on the natural ecosystems or on the economy, society and human health. That is why it will always be an assessment, at least as I read it. This is not the same as discussing wolves, because it does not belong here, because it is not an invasive species. I fully agree with Mrs Reumert Gjerding on this point.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160516	We thank the rapporteur. And then it's sir. Erling Bonnesen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160531	Thank you. The aim of the bill here is to provide a basis for a focused and effective prevention effort towards the introduction and spread of certain invasive species that are problematic in Denmark. And the bill means that the Minister for the Environment and Food is authorised to lay down rules on the establishment of a national list of invasive species that are problematic in Denmark and to introduce a number of prohibitions on species included in the list. The draft law also provides for a technical adjustment of the Marine Strategy Act aimed at ensuring more coherent and consistent access to the status assessments under the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. The Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160616	Thanks to the Left. Then it's Mrs. Maria Reumert Gjerding from the Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160632	Thank you very much. The aim of the bill here is to limit the harmful effects of invasive species, among others. by drawing up a national list of invasive species which may harm Danish nature and making it possible to impose a trade ban. There are imported species of e.g. flowers that can adorn the Danish gardens and be a delight to garden owners without creating problems in Danish nature. Then there are other species which, if exposed in Danish nature, are spreading unbridled, for example. because the natural enemies have no natural enemies in the Danish ecosystems and, in the worst case, destroy native Danish species. Invasive species can have a very negative effect on Danish biodiversity, and it is therefore very positive that there are now better opportunities to address these species. So there is praise for the Minister for the Environment for this bill. Another part of the legislative proposal concerns the technical adjustment of Annex 1 to the Marine Strategy Directive. It looks very trustworthy and purely technical, but in the Enhedslisten we can always get a little nervous, because we know the Minister's love for marine farming and other things, so we will allow ourselves to delve a little deeper into the committee procedure to be absolutely sure that these are purely technical adjustments. But overall, we are positive about the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160804	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Carsten Bach, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160814	Thank you for the floor. With Bill L 55, Denmark will take advantage of an opportunity in the 2014 EU regulation on invasive alien species to draw up a corresponding national list of invasive species that are problematic in Denmark. It is therefore a list of species where the spread of the species will have a harmful effect on biodiversity and related ecosystems in Denmark. In the action plan against invasive species published in spring 2017, you can see the proposal for the species that may appear in the first edition of the national list. In the Liberal Alliance, we find it very meaningful to lay the foundations for a focused, effective prevention approach to the spread of invasive plant and animal species, such as the signal crayon, which is problematic in Denmark, and therefore, of course, the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160926	Thank you. We move on to Mr. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160933	Thank you very much. I shall make it almost as short as possible. The alternative is in favour of these tightenings and clarifications as they increase protection against both invasive species and the protection of the marine environment in general.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160946	That was a commendable card. Then we move on to Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026160953	Then I will be a little longer on that, because I think it is an exciting discussion about invasive species. And, of course, we received a small introduction to invasive species from Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, and I can then add that there are several kinds of invasive species. There are those who have been introduced, who are the ones who have been deliberately introduced, and then there are those who have been dragged in I can mention the brown rat and the killer snail, which I believe is also called the Iberian forest snail, if you do not use the popular name. Of course, there is not much discussion about trying to get rid of them as well as we can. Then there is such a thing as scalding cabbage and wine-mountain snails and deer and pheasants, which the Danish People's Party rapporteur also mentioned. And in fact it was only recently that I realised that the pheasant is not native to the Danish nature. We can all be surprised there. But when you think about the animal and see it running a long way, you might see that the plumage doesn't necessarily fit into a Danish field landscape, but maybe in something a little more exotic. But it's funny. No, it's not funny, but you can make a lot of fun with invasive species. I remember a former minister who had a campaign called if you can't beat them, eat them. That minister was simply trying to get the Danes to eat invasive species because it was then hoped that there would actually be such direct demand that could put it in the hands of clean-up campaigns. However, in the draft law today no one is going out to eat bear claws all other exciting toxic things, but there is an authorisation for the Minister to take further species into a Danish context and further initiatives, and of course we can support that from a radical point of view.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161144	Thank you. Then it is the SF rapporteur, and it is Mrs Trine Torp who is on the way. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161158	Thank you. It was because I was so captivated by the speech by the rapporteur of the Radicals, so I thought that there might be even more of the same kind. I would say that this proposal is also the implementation of EU legislation, and here the government has chosen to draw up a national list of invasive species. This approach can be argued professionally, but we in the SF may be a little nervous about whether the government will weigh the business-friendly a little more than it is, but we will therefore choose to take a positive view of the possibility of also being able to regulate species that may not have much attention in other countries yet. But hands automatically run down and hold their pockets a little when the Minister makes proposals that change the Marine Strategy Act. As you know, the government has chosen to give Denmark a pollution quota because it believes that Kattegat is under-contaminated... the so-called environmental room for manoeuvre... and the minister must therefore apologize if we are going to spend time in committee on this part and it turns out that fear is completely unfounded. But the red flag is there, and we will be asking questions about this very technical part of the committee's proceedings. In general terms, on the basis of this, we are in favour of the draft law, but we have reservations about the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161323	Thank you to the rapporteur. The next is Mrs Mette Abildgaard, the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161330	I almost had a cross in my calendar to mark this historic day when the Enhedslisten's rapporteur, Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerding, from the platform praised the government for her green approach. On Mrs Maria Reumert Gjerd, it has been said earlier that she is a traveler in the concern industry, and finally a small concern was raised, so I failed to complete the cross in the calendar today, but it may be that it will come another day. Nevertheless, I think it is a very fine bill that we are discussing here today. As previous speakers have mentioned, it is a question of preventing, on the one hand, the introduction of these invasive species in Denmark and, on the other hand, the further spread when the damage has occurred. The EU has had its list for some years now, but it makes sense that we also have a Danish counterpart. The final list is only established when there has been a consultation process on this, and I would really like to commend the Minister for a good, engaging process in relation to it, and I think there are a number of green organisations that appreciate that. Then we will see what the final list will look like, but I wonder whether both Canadian balsam and Japanese willow herb will be included in the final list. But at least in the Conservative People's Party we can only praise this bill and, by its very nature, we support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161454	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we must be able to give the floor to a well-satisfied Minister for the Environment and Food, as there is good support for this bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161503	Thank you for that, President. I will allow myself, in the sign of generosity, to mark the rose from the Enhedslisten, so thank you for it. After all, it is no secret that we are challenged by invasive species that challenge our environment and challenge our nature, and that is why we also have a clear desire to address this issue. After all, the draft law contains elements of it in relation to our work, just as we also have a technical adaptation of Annex 1 to the Marine Strategy Act, which is a necessary consequence of a recent adaptation to the EU Marine Framework Directive. We propose that there should be a national list and we are taking a good step towards it today. And then, as the Conservative rapporteur also mentioned, we will be running a consultation process on the elements to be included in the list. We stress that we are doing something very tangible about this problem so that we avoid the invasive species or combat those who are here. I look forward to further work and thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161614	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on the Environment and Food. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161636	The debate is open. The first in line is sir. Daniel Toft Jakobsen, Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161701	Thank you. This bill opens up the way for companies to be safety certified to operate on their own responsibility on the railway network in the future, not only as today, when companies carry out tasks for railway undertakings and infrastructure managers, but also when running on the rail network as part of the performance of tasks for example. municipalities or the Road Directorate or others. We in the Social Democratic Party consider this to be a very sensible starting point. As can be seen from the comments of the bill, Banedanmark requires, with effect from 1 January 2018, that all contractors carrying out tasks for Banedanmark must have a safety certificate and also their own liability insurance if they are to run and move on the open rail network in connection with the performance of tasks for Banedanmark. This bill means, among other things, that the very same companies will also be able to use this certificate when driving on the track when it comes to tasks other than Banedanmark. As I said, we think that makes quite good sense. It also makes good sense, of course, that the companies that will be certified under these rules will be subject to the same safety rules and requirements that railway undertakings are currently subject to; that is also part of this bill. There are not so many consultation answers to the bill, but Dansk Metal notes that it is crucial for them that this certification under this provision applies only to work and not to passenger or freight transport. As I read the draft law, that is exactly what will happen, but perhaps the Minister can confirm that. As I said, we are fundamentally positive about the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161853	Thank you to the Social Democrat rapporteur. The next one is sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026161905	Thank you. At first glance, this might look like a very innocent suggestion. You change section 11, so now other than just the contractors can drive around on the tracks and carry materials around etc. etc. That immediately makes very good sense. I was pretty upset when I read the bill because it refers to one paragraph, and it then refers to the other paragraph, and that's how you get run around the system, so you don't get much smarter reading the bill. So what I want at least during committee reading is to find out what this has to do with the consequences for the companies that are going to drive out there. There are increased requirements for insurance, etc. etc. If this has any financial consequences, for example. All the smaller contractors are cut off from this market, so it will be Banedanmark who decides the price forward, and I do not want that under any circumstances. So I hope that we will have a good and thorough reading of the committee. I already have an A4 page with questions for which I can prepare the Minister, but I think we will take that during the committee procedure.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162021	Thank you to the rapporteur. And the next in line is mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162034	Thank you, sir. President. With Bill L 26, we amend section 11 of the Railway Act, as other colleagues have already explained. The amendment concerns the possibility for companies to be safety certified to operate on the railway on their own responsibility in connection with the operation of work. It is important to point out that this draft law does not change the level of safety in the railway sector. This is not something we want to compromise on at all. In the case of the acquisition of a safety certificate, the entity shall then work in accordance with the applicable guidelines and procedures already laid down in the safety management system. This will also ensure the high safety of the Danish railway in the future. As I have said, the legislative proposal allows companies to drive on the railways under their own responsibility, i.e. on the road to work, and, overall, the legislative proposal will mean that we will remove an unnecessary barrier in terms of business opportunities for companies in relation to the Railway Act. And that will be a change for the benefit of business and to the seventh and last of society as a whole. Finally, I would like to thank the industry for their role in drafting the bill. I always think it is important to involve and be in contact with the industry when we make legislative proposals that affect the world of reality. That is why I would like to acknowledge and commend the Minister for having just involved the industry in the process. The Left supports the bill and I should like to welcome my Conservative colleague and say that the Conservatives also support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162217	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Left. And then it's sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162230	I must admit that at least at this stage I do not know what to do with this bill. Like the rapporteur from the Danish People's Party, I am somewhat confused about what this is really about, or rather what the consequences of it will be. I understand that this is due to Banedanmark here per year. 1 January 2018 requires that people working on the open rail network, as we call it, can no longer be covered by Banedanmark's safety certificate and liability insurance. So far, this has been the case, and my first question arises: is it because Banedanmark no longer wants to do so, or has too many companies that operate on the rail network? Or is it a legislative matter or a requirement from the European Union, or what do I know who says Banedanmark can no longer, if I may say so, use his own safety certificates and liability insurance for other companies? I would like to know that in the first place. As I say, I'm having a little trouble dealing with it. Because why does this change really have to happen? Of course, I believe that, if there is a problem, the problem has arisen as Banedanmark outsources more and more of their work in the field. In the past it was Banedanmark, who pretty much did all the work and had people and machines himself, and what it is called, to manage the work on the rail network and maintain or for that matter create new installations etc. It's not like that anymore. We've got one of them. I have to, and maintain in relation to the power service, etc., so that the trees don't fall down on the power lines and all that. It has also been outsourced or privatised. I am also well aware that on the Danish railway there are now huge constructions in the form of a new runway Copenhagen-Ringsted, signal program, electrification etc. etc. It is certainly not something which Banedanmark is entirely responsible for. I assume that it is in this context that it has suddenly become a need, and I think that, of course, is a boring development. But on the other hand, I have to say that we have come there. I have also noticed that the comments on the draft law mention that one of the things or companies, or what to say, that could be covered by it here and that should be able to apply for its own safety certificates and stand with its own liability insurance, are workshops. Workshops? I think so. Well, at the moment I only know that DSB has some workshops, and Arriva probably does, and the local lanes probably also have some workshops. Of course, I am thinking straight away, because I am paranoid in this area, to reach, yes, DSB is about to buy new trains, and in this respect they operate with the possibility that the supplier of the new trains will be able to run some workshop activities themselves and then make it clear in that way. It is not a development that Enhedslisten likes, I must honestly admit, and that is why I am a little sceptical, but also in doubt as to what I am really going to do with this thing. I understand that there will be room for the municipalities and the Road Directorate to work and, for that matter, others as it says. So it is not work that is done for a railway undertaking or an infrastructure manager, and then what I am thinking is: what are they going to do on the Danish rail network? There may well be a situation, but why can it not be covered by the fact that DSB, Arriva, Banedanmark and the local lanes are renting themselves in what they have actually done so far? I do not think there is too much room on the Danish rail network in advance, and I am well aware of that, I can read that even if channels are to be allocated, and that is something Banedanmark does, so there are delays in the train traffic around. If you then have contracts with some private companies that they have to do something within a certain time, it will lead to claims against Banedanmark, for example. is unable to comply with the time factor that has been predicted, because Banedanmark is responsible for the channels? It may be a perfectly thought example, but still. To be honest, I am a little sceptical about releasing all kinds of companies with their own certificates on the rail network, which one can well hear. But on the other hand, I also agree that if the work becomes easier, and we are in the situation we are now, with a lot of private contractors in this area, then of course you also have to adapt to it. Yeah, so these are my somewhat confused and not very clear remarks on this bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162807	We would nevertheless like to thank the rapporteur. And the next is Mrs. Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162822	The aim of the draft law here is to remove a barrier which prevents certain companies from exercising their profession flexibly. This allows certified undertakings to operate on the railway even when they do not perform tasks for an infrastructure manager or railway undertaking. Generally speaking, public authorities, we, too many obstacles to business, are really hampering growth. It must be easier to operate in Denmark if we are to become a richer society, and we must. That's why it's a good thing that with this bill, the minister is taking up the work of removing some of these obstacles. With those words, I must inform you that the Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162908	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Nikolai Amstrup, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026162915	Thank you very much. As other rapporteurs have said, the proposal provides for safety certification of construction companies so that they can operate on the railways on their own responsibility, and we are, as a starting point, very positive about this. But I also got a little worried about both Mr. Kim Christiansens and Mr. Henning Hyllested's rosyness, as I know from experience that when you gentlemen are rounded-up in transport, there is usually something to come for. For my part, I very much appreciated the possibility that this could impose restrictions on small businesses in relation to insurance and perhaps the cost of certification, which smaller companies would not be able to pay. With the concerns that I am sure we will be taking and digging deep into during the committee procedure, the alternative can also support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163027	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it is Mrs Ida Auken, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163036	This is a perfectly logical update of the law in relation to reality, so work to develop and maintain the railways can be done in the best possible way. There is virtually no consultation response, and the few who are only welcome the proposal. It is a completely peaceful and natural update, and the Radical Left can support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163056	Thank you. That was an accurate statement. Then it's mr. Carl Valentin, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163103	Thank you very much. The proposal to amend the Railway Act concerns Section 11, which describes the possibility for companies to be safety certified to run on the track under their own responsibility. The amendment of the law will allow companies certified under the clause to run on the track even if they do not perform tasks for an infrastructure manager or a railway undertaking. The legislative proposal seems immediately sensible enough, and I will certainly not deny that the SF can back it up. However, it is crucial for us that there is clarity about the safety issues that Dansk Metal highlights in its consultation response. Sir. Henning Hyllested also had several concerns about the bill, which I share. We shall therefore take it up in the next committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163147	Thank you to the rapporteur. And then we've reached the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163159	Thank you. I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for the positive reception of proposals for amending the Railway Act. The aim of the proposal is to improve the business opportunities of the companies that are security certified to run on the track on their own responsibility under Section 11 of the Act. It could, for example, be done. be contractors. The draft law does not concern railway undertakings such as DSB, Arriva or DB Cargo, which transport passengers or goods. As it is today, an entity certified under § 11 may only run on the track itself when the undertaking performs tasks for either an infrastructure manager or a railway undertaking. In all other cases, the undertaking is obliged to pay a railway undertaking to transport the undertaking's equipment, as the undertaking may not run on the track itself unless the undertaking performs tasks for an infrastructure manager or railway undertaking. Specifically, the restriction means that a company certified in accordance with § 11 is not allowed to run on the track itself when the company performs tasks, for example, for a municipality or for the Road Directorate. It is also not allowed to run on the field when the company alone has to go from A to B, for example. where the undertaking is to start a new task from a completed task to the place where the undertaking is to start a new task. This happens despite the fact that the company has spent time and money being security certified to run on the track itself, and despite the fact that the company is subject to the same safety rules as the railway undertaking which is to transport the company's equipment. I propose that the restriction be removed. I suggest that a company certified under § 11 be given the opportunity to run on the track even when the company does not perform tasks for an infrastructure manager or a railway undertaking. This improves the company's business opportunities as it becomes free from paying a railway undertaking to transport its equipment when it does not perform tasks for railway undertakings or infrastructure managers. I look forward to further consideration here in the Folketing, and I am of course available to answer any questions that may arise in this regard. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163417	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Transport, Building and Housing and, if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It has been adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163438	The debate is open. The first is Mrs Mette Reissmann, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026163453	Thank you. In February of this year, a broad majority of the government, the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left, the SF and the Social Democratic Party reached a broad agreement on a new taxi law to enter into force on 1 January 2018 and the result of that agreement is the proposal that we are first considering today. The desire for modernisation of the taxi industry has been very great from a wide range of players. For the Social Democratic Party, it has been crucial to create more competition in the taxi industry. Specifically, this is ensured by abolishing the number limitation, so that 500 new permits are released annually from 2018 to 2020 and, after three years, the number limitation is completely abolished. In addition, we also abolish the geographical restriction, and on that basis we increase the number of wagons, while it becomes easier to operate taxi business. It also ultimately benefits consumers. The taxi industry now also needs to get used to thinking as managers and businessmen, and not just as road hauliers who drive with a licence to be handed in when you stop as a wagonman. Now we also need to think strategically, to invest wisely, and, moreover, perhaps internal demands must also be made within the organisation. The road hauliers are being introduced to the new concept of universal authorisation. The idea is that the driver has the possibility to use the authorisation for different types of driving. The coachman can thus make an appointment with a driving office to carry out taxi services, but he or she may also choose to carry out driving for a taxi or traffic company. This makes it possible for the driving offices to make flexible arrangements with the road haulage operator, such as: want to drive taxi occasionally when additional capacity is needed. Basically, with this proposal, we ensure that operators in the taxi market have clear rules where it has been crucial for the Social Democratic Party to ensure that taxes are paid on drivers' income and that taxi driving takes place on good pay and working conditions with respect for the Danish labour market model. We also ensure that sales of driving to private customers are made through a driving office. The driving office must therefore take greater responsibility for the control of tax payments. To support this, we also continue the requirement for taximeters and seat sensors. In this way, we believe that we can ensure fair competition, effective tax recovery and consumer protection as best we can. It also strengthens consumer protection, the creation of a right of appeal and the provision of approved driver training and extended driving tests for drivers. In other words, the agreement does not close the door we do not close the door to technological achievements, as the agreement states that further digitalisation of the industry must continue to be possible. For example, it will be possible to calculate in advance a price for a taxi trip, which interested consumers can use. The debate on the taxi law, and it is no secret, has been very marked by Uber, and in this respect it is important for me to say that social democracy is not opposed to Uber and new technology. On the other hand, we insist that operators in the taxi market compete on equal terms and that all taxi drivers have to pay taxes, and technology development must be able to support this at all times. That is why, of course, it is extremely important to say that we are open to discussing this in the future, as the evaluations put into the law appear. In order to ensure a taxi law that ensures good service throughout the country, there are also fewer requirements for rural driving offices, while it will also be possible for municipalities to buy themselves for taxi services, and combined with the lifting of the number limit, this should lead to more wagons throughout the country, so we also believe that rural areas are covered into the new law. In the cities there has sometimes been a challenge to meet the demand that exists. In future, there will be an opportunity to increase capacity, which will ensure a greater supply of taxis, which will provide better customer service, less waste time and better economy. And I understand that it takes some road hauliers to get used to moving the wagons around, depending on where the customers and the assignments are. But I believe it will be possible. It is also the intention that the new taxi law should ensure more accessible cars, as through the introduction of a universal licence it will be possible both to drive regular taxi services and to drive disabled people. We are particularly pleased about that. This makes it easier to build up a business with disabled driving when you can combine it with ordinary taxi driving. In addition, all drivers are trained to help people with difficulties in walking, disabled, etc. The future driving offices become masters of their own house, and this means that a driving office can throw out the trucker who refuses to live up to the agreed service. And to ensure that the new taxi law is complied with, we also raise the level of fines with the bill, so that the range is from 5,000 DKK. for minor offences to DKK 35,000. for serious offences. It is the assessment that it will have a preventive effect in ensuring compliance with the law. Last but not least, the law must be evaluated three times, the first time after one year, and here we already have the opportunity to look at whether the development of the taxi industry in relation to customers and society and within the industry as such has gone as expected. The Social Democrats believe that the new taxi law is the answer to the challenges facing the industry. Against this background, the Social Democratic Party supports the bill and looks forward to the work of the committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164018	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164023	I just want to say that I am well aware of the rapporteur's statement that deregulation and liberalisation of the industry are taking place here, and that is with the aim of increasing competition in the taxi industry. But is it not true that this competition would first and foremost remain in the cities where there is something to do with, and that, with the abolition of the limitation of numbers and geographical limits, you will see that taxis apply to cities in large numbers and, of course, especially at the times when there is really something to do, i.e. Friday evening, Saturday evening, or when there are events etc. etc. Does this not mean, and is the Social Democrats not at all nervous, that there will be unhealthy competition between too many taxis in the cities, and therefore a competition which will necessarily remain on wages and working conditions, especially under the conditions of how long you will have to drive to maintain an honest income as a taxi driver, as a taxi driver?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164140	This bill is, of course, the result of lengthy discussions within the circle of parties that have helped to make the agreement that forms the basis of the bill. One of the things that has been discussed and where, of course, the Social Democratic Party has put a great deal of emphasis on being careful was that there should be no tax evasion or social dumping. We are not interested in increasing, one can say the number of working poor among taxi drivers. One of the things that we, among other things, are... We are of course going to follow developments closely, both in terms of the development of competition in rural areas, but also in terms of how it is going to take place in cities, and especially in terms of how we are going to deal with these various problems, as Mr. Henning Hyllested addresses. So on the question of whether I am nervous about whether it is completely inviolable, I would say: no, I am not. I do not share the nervousness that Mr. Henning Hyllested expresses, but I am very aware of the problem. That is why I am also looking forward to us reaping that experience and, moreover, discussing it in the circle of agreements when the first evaluation is to take place.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164249	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164251	Experience from other countries tells us that once you release a lot of people on this market, and there will be a little easier access for both drivers and road hauliers to become drivers and road hauliers, it is in this market, and when you do not set a ceiling on the number of permits and do not have a geographical limit, there will be a great many people in the industry. There are also many people here to try to see if things are going right now, and after a short time it turns out that things are not working out. Then you get out of the industry again, but you may have helped to push the wage level and the level of working conditions in the meantime. This is the experience that has also been gained in other countries, not least in Sweden. I know that Sweden is totally liberalised, and now you are really on your way back. And I know that in this taxi legislation a number of things have been attempted, but I would say that I think it should perhaps have been built on the existing taxi legislation and so quietly, what to say, liberalise it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164356	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164357	Well, I do know Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested's views on these things were the fact that Mr. Henning Hyllested took part in some of the discussions before deciding to leave the circle. But I would like to stress once again that we are aware of these issues, and precisely for the same reason these evaluations have been made. We do not want Swedish conditions. We have always made that very clear is not what we intend to do. However, on the other hand, we have also listened to the taxi industry and the stakeholders associated with it, and in particular to customers, both business customers and also private customers, about what they wanted to modernise, and it has been necessary to modernise. And it has not been estimated, nor does the Social Democratic Party believe that it has been enough to build on the existing law. It had to be done, which is now what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164447	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then we'll move on, and that's sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164459	One might say that some people might say that it is a bad day, but I would say that I think it is a good day when we first deal with the taxi law on which we have probably spent a few years trying to reach some agreement. That's always the way it is when you make a settlement, so you have to give and you have to take. The Danish People's Party is now very satisfied, because we feel the most we have taken in this matter. However, this has been a difficult exercise because a great many consideration had to be given to liberalising such legislation. Basically everyone had to be taken into account. There is, however, one that I have not taken so much account of. But I still think we have a taxi law, we have a liberalisation which was also wanted, at least by certain parts of the industry, and which I personally also thought was necessary. We cannot keep riding horses and wagons; we simply have to adapt to society and the developments that are taking place. Among other things: I think that the fact that one can now run one's business in company form is an enormous strength and that one can save up in one's business. But if you start a taxi business, you don't risk house and home if you fail with the business. Then there is the whole land taxi problem. We in the Danish People's Party have been very concerned about this, but I think we have done some things that I hope can stem it, but it is clear that we must be very vigilant in this phase towards an evaluation. I am pleased that I know that the Rural Council and the Danish Taxi Council have created a collaboration in which, of course, they look very critically at how it develops in rural areas. One of the things that I do not think we succeeded in doing was the whole OST problem. There are some miserable pay and working conditions in that market, not least caused by the fact that municipalities and regions use the lowest common denominator when using transport. They cannot get it cheap enough, and so it goes beyond that because, unfortunately, it is a market that is affected by a certain amount of lawlessness in relation to agreements. We all remember L 118, where we were sitting in a great circle discussing whether we could create proper pay and working conditions for this sector, and it ended up not succeeding because 3F blocked it. So it's just for general knowledge that it's 3F who bears the responsibility that there are miserable conditions in terms of pay for this industry. We're hoping to figure it out, but this taxi legislation didn't work out, and I'm sorry. Another thing we did not get so far with is the whole issue of flex. Flextaxa was meant to work in places where bus routes were laid down, but today it has almost become such a door-to-door function, but to a tenth of what it costs to take a taxi. It is also paid for by the municipal treasury and by taxpayers' money. The Danish People's Party is not satisfied with this arrangement in its present form, so we had hoped that we could also come closer to a solution to it. But all in all, I think we have a taxi law that creates, above all, equal and fair competition, and a taxi law where there is no room for fusenters, lucky knights and pirates, for example. Uber. But there are also plenty of other pirates in this business. We have achieved this, and that was also the aim of the taxi law, namely that we gave the industry some opportunities, while at the same time creating equal and fair competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164854	There are a few rapporteurs who want to ask short questions. Sir. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten, is the first.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164859	Sir. Kim Christiansen is very pleased with the part of the taxi legislation that makes it possible to form companies now. But is Mr. Kim Christiansen is not at all nervous about the trend that we have seen in all sorts of other places, where, if I may say so, we capitalise on a whole industry, a whole industry, and where we get an intake of foreign taxi companies and capital funds, as we have seen in Sweden, where capital funds have set themselves on a large part of the taxi market, which has led to less service along the way compared to ordering a taxi and for that matter also on the price level?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164947	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026164949	No, I'm not really so worried about that, because I think that the risk is so abundantly outweighed by the fact that a small trucker who wants to start for himself maybe out in a district where there is not so much customer density, but for that matter also in the big cities can start this, for example. like an IVS. It's $1. So you can say that he can start a company in company form and that he doesn't want to throw in a house and everything as a risk cover if it isn't supposed to go well with this business. So I think there are gains in that. Those who succeed in doing so can build up equity, and yes, they can sell it to a capital fund, then it is not something that would hurt me.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165034	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165036	I guess that's one of the problems with this, too. After all, it makes it easier to obtain a licence, both as a carrier and as a driver. One of my concerns is that I would like to hear about Mr. Kim Christiansen shares that is precisely that we now get a lot, yes, I have called them lucky knights along the way and pirates, and what else we might call them, into the industry. They're just trying it off, because now it's easier to get in, and then they're just trying it off, and it didn't work out, and then they're pulling out again. And in the meantime we have been running on a number of conditions at a level far below the level of the conditions that we know, after all, and which are general today for taxi drivers. Is Mr. Kim Christiansen is not nervous that this is what is going to happen, compared with the fact that we are going to have these big corporations, capital funds that are really going to dominate? And we will probably see the spread of the so-called arms and legs companies, the so-called road hauliers, which in reality are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165138	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165139	I'm not worried. Henning Hyllested, compared to the taxi business. Where my concern could be in relation to lucky knights and some who want to get in and out quickly could be in relation to OST permits, i.e. to drive the kind of driving where you offer in on car racing. It's an hour. We've already seen a lot of lucky knights enter that market. Unfortunately, this taxi legislation didn't solve that. But in relation to starting a taxi business itself, I am not worried, because you still have to invest some money in the form of cameras, taximeters, seat sensors, all kinds of equipment, etc. etc., and also a proper car of a certain quality that meets environmental requirements etc. So I think we've got a clue in any case about the fact that you could just buy an old Opel Kadett on the Internet, and then you could lie and drive a taxi and then, by the way, don't pay taxes on it. We've gotten that closed down. So I'm not so worried.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165238	The next question is Mr. Rasmus Prehn, Social Democracy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165241	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Seligman very much. Kim Christiansen for the very good cooperation we have had in preparing this taxi law. There is no doubt that this law will ensure that there are precisely environmental and climate requirements for these cars. We also have to ensure that tax payments are made in the taxi sector in the future, and that is absolutely crucial. Therefore, we in the Social Democratic Party are pleased that we have had this close collaboration with the Danish People's Party in this area. But there's still something a little shattering in my ears when I hear Mr. Knox. Kim Christiansen speaks here, namely that Mr. Kim Christiansen states that it is 3F's fault that there is an area here where it is almost Wild West and there are no proper conditions. Is it not true that the Social Democratic Party had actually tabled a bill here in the Danish Parliament, in which we set out to re-establish the state of law before the NORTRA judgment and that if it were the case that the Danish People's Party had wanted to settle matters in this area and had voted in favour of our proposals, then we would have been some of these problems even now? So the Danish People's Party could have made a difference by voting in favour of our proposal. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165355	That is absolutely correct. And it is just as true that if the Socialist Government had not rolled back the proposal which, among other things, had been rejected. The Danish People's Party, together with the former Left Government, had been involved in making that there could only be one OST permit for each taxi permit, so we hadn't had this discussion at all. But there the regions were frightened by the DUT requirements and things like that. So there have been various reasons why we have reacted as we have. If we did not want to vote in favour of the Social Democrats' proposal, it was because we were not put in the world to give all power to the LO and the Red Trade Unions. And now we are not going to discuss L 118 that is not what it is about today, but there it was about the fact that everyone would not be involved, and that is why the negotiations broke down, I would say to Mr. Rasmus Prehn, and I find that regrettable. I know that you and I have a warm desire to have those negotiations resumed, and then maybe we can get everyone to bite their tongues a little and then get this up and get it up and we've had lots of deputies about it, not least for the joy and benefit of all the people who go out there and work for one on paper sensible pay, but then you just have twice as many hours as the ones you get paid for. And we're gonna have to stop something like that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165511	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165513	So it was not the case that the Red Trade Unions alone, as Mr. Kim Christiansen says, but the most representative unions are those who are most popular, those who draw the most agreements, and those who have the right conditions. That's what was supposed to apply. And if we can find that, then we on the Socialist side are happy, and then we must work together on it. And I also hope that Mr. Kim Christiansen will accept an outstretched hand from the Social Democratic Party to continue the cooperation in securing proper conditions in this area, including in ensuring fair rules in relation to these OST permits. Because there is a goat market out there where there are unfair conditions, and we must try to get that right. So I would like to call for us to continue working together to resolve this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165557	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165558	It is quite true that it was formulated as the most representative. But that's just 3F in this area, and we don't want to give them a monopoly. That's as far as the real one is concerned. However, I would like to say to the end that we are happy to cooperate in the future with the Social Democratic Party and with all other parties with which we can make some sensible agreements.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165617	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026165626	Thank you for that, President. There are some births that go easy, almost like leaving an almond, and then there are other births that are much harder. And we have to say that the bill we are discussing here today has had a bit of a difficult birth. This is certainly something that has been going on for a long time. Well, 4-5 years, at least, we've probably discussed this. I myself have attended numerous taxi meetings around the country. We have long recognised that there was a need to modernise the taxi law, a need to liberalise things, to remove unnecessary barriers, to remove old rigid rules, etc., to get a new dynamic into the industry, to make it more effective for both the industry and indeed for the customers as well. In addition, it has been an important objective for the Left to ensure fair competition in the industry. It is an essential part of liberal policy precisely to ensure fair conditions of competition, so that no one can cheat on the weight, but one competes within a fair framework, and then it is also important that we ensure good taxi coverage, both in cities and indeed in rural areas. On this point too, we want Denmark to be linked. It's been a difficult birth. It has waved back and forth, but we came together on 9 February this year for a very broad agreement, and I would like to sign for the other parties that are included in that agreement and sign for the Minister that a broad agreement has just been reached. It is important because the broad agreement means that there will be stability in this area, that there will be certainty, rather than that it is the kind of thing that changes every time you change government. Now we're gonna have stability. This does not mean that this is cast in concrete, because we have just agreed that this has to be evaluated. There has to be an evaluation already after 1 year and after 3 years and after 6 years, and that is because we know very well that there is probably going to be a need for some adjustments to what we have done here when we see how it works out in the real world. It is the case that if you stand with a map and look beyond the terrain and there is no agreement, then it is the terrain that fits. So it is in this reality. And therefore, if this law, which corresponds to the map, doesn't really fit with reality, then we have to adjust. We politicians should not be too good for that. But what we are talking about here is that we remove some barriers. We are introducing a universal licence, which is issued by the board, so it is no longer the municipalities that are issuing taxi permits, as we are abolishing the number limitation after a transitional period of 3 years. I think it is a good thing that there is a transitional period so that the industry can adapt to the new conditions and the geographical limitation is also lifted. I'm sure that will be of great benefit to both the customers and the industry. Then it has been important that we have a collection of data in connection with taxi driving. It's primarily because we want to make sure that this is paid tax. We don't want black driving in this country. It's been practiced a lot abroad. I don't think it's everything that's given up to the IRS. But we don't want to do that here in Denmark, so it's important that we have this electronic collection and storage of data, which is also an essential element of the bill. It has also been important that there is security for customers. That's why we're gonna go in there and make behavior demands. That is why we have some training requirements for drivers, and that is where I think we have landed at a reasonable level. This is something we have discussed a great deal during the negotiations, namely where we should land it here. I think we have landed at a quite reasonable level. But what is central is that everyone is going to pay taxes. There's gonna be a setup in this area. Then there are a few points on which there has been a great deal of concern. We can also see that from the consultation answers. That is, for example, the case.: What will this mean for rural areas? Will it be the case that all taxis are now flocked into the cities like flies about a sugar food, and then you don't care about driving in rural areas? It is, of course, a concern that you can have in rural areas, but we have also built in some elements that make us respond to that concern. Firstly, we are making it easier to run a driving office in rural areas. There are significantly lower capital requirements, and this is precisely in recognition of the fact that it must be easier to establish itself in rural areas. Another point that I think is important is that if it turns out that there is a given municipality where there is a relatively long distance between houses, there is not really any taxi coverage with this liberalisation, yes, then the municipal council will have an opportunity to provide driving in a given area. It may be for the whole municipality, or it may be in a part of the municipality where there is a problem. And that is quite natural, because it is also the municipality that orders the music when we talk about the collective bus operation in the municipality. It is also the municipality that orders the music when we talk flexture, which is set in the world to replace the large empty buses that have been driving around for many years in many parts of the country. As my good colleague Kim Christiansen said, there are some places where the flexures may have gone too far when you can use them to drive a disco with you in the middle of the night. But otherwise flexture is a very good idea, because it is not sensible to drive large buses around. But all that stuff is coming together at the municipality. It is also the municipality that orders public service traffic, which also affects the taxi industry. If the municipality chooses to expand its public service traffic in very large packages, and there may be some far away in the regional transport company that offers it, then it is clear that it will then be a little harder for the local hauliers in this regard to get some driving and exist. That's why it's natural that it's the municipality that's equipped with this option because it's where it's assembled. It's at the municipal level. I believe that this will help ensure reasonable coverage. But if that turns out not to be the case, then we are ready to adjust. That is why I am pleased that we have that evaluation already after a year. We agree that this is very central. That would be a core point. In fact, we agree on the parties between that a committee should be set up now, which focuses and closely follows how this is now working in rural areas. It will then be a proposal if we have to adjust something after a year. Another thing that we evaluate after a year is technological development. It's moving fast, and what does it mean that new technology is coming all the time? Does this give rise to some changes and further modernisations? It could well do that, but let us see how things are going. That is also one of the things we are following closely. All in all, I think we've found a really good balance with this taxi law. We will have conditions in this area, we will have fair competition, we will have new dynamism and new flexibility for the benefit of our customers and business, and I believe that will end up with a greater supply of cars and that we will have a better service, better quality, but if it turns out that we are wrong, then we are ready to adjust when we have had the first year of this new law. The Left supports the bill, and I should like to say from the Conservative People's Party that they do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170404	Thank you. There are some brief comments and the first is from Henning Hyllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170409	I'm really glad to hear that Mr. Knox... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen operates with the possibility that you can be wrong and then you can correct it. This is a healthy and good starting point. But at the beginning of the rapporteur's speech Mr. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, that there was such a common desire in the industry that something should now happen and that we should basically have a whole new taxi law. It's not my experience, and I don't know if we've talked to the same people. In fact, I believe that this is primarily a wish that has arisen in parts of the Copenhagen taxi industry, especially because in Copenhagen you have the very, very large taxi hauliers, and that is very much a wish of them. When I get around the province like this and I do a lot of things, and I drive a lot of taxi in the province, I don't think it's a strong wish from there that something drastic should happen that I think the new taxi law is. - Sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen recognizes what I am saying here about the experience I have, or have we visited two different worlds?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170519	I've also come around a lot in the province... actually I live out there... so I know there's a difference of opinion about this. It's often there when we talk about something new. And of course there are some who are nervous about what this means now and who say that now things were going just as well and that they've been driving like this for 25 years. But with the developments that have taken place in our society, we also need to bring the taxi industry into modernisation, and that is why there are clearly some who see ghosts here and are afraid of what this brings. And that is also why I say that if it turns out that it brings with it something unpleasant that we do not want from the political side, we must be ready to adjust. But I believe this is gonna be really good. But I know that there are some people out there who are worried, and that is also why, across the parties, we are among others. Says: Let us now see how it works in rural areas and whether the measures we have built in are adequate, otherwise we will have to adjust it. But I am aware that not everyone is super enthusiastic about this. But that's the way it is. Every time you make some change, some build shelter fences and others build wind turbines.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170622	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170623	Well, it's not that I think I've experienced a "out in the province" where we both come from... that there's been a reluctance, that something new should happen or that you should be involved in the development. I do not really see that the taxi industry has lagged behind to a large extent. In these discussions over the last few years, I have often used the example of this app that Uber suddenly introduced. For a long time I have had apps on my phone from 4x35 and from Esbjerg Taxi and from Aarhus Taxi, and what it's all called. And they could do exactly the same as Uber's app could, and I could also rate the driver, and I should give you, I should. I mean, it's not like there's been a reluctance in the industry to be involved in this. What you may have been opposed to is, of course, this very drastic disruption which I believe is taking place now in the industry, opening up permits to such an extent and not imposing restrictions on permits and thus giving way to many, many more truckers in a competition which, in my opinion, is unhealthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170724	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170725	Well, that's also why I think it's a new situation that arises, that it's good that we have a transitional period of 3 years so that we can just adjust. I also think I would like to sign up to the industry for the fact that new technology has just been adopted, i.e. apps and so on. It's in rapid development. But what I think is absolutely central here and I believe that Enhedslisten also welcomes us to have arranged relationships. Now it's the case that for those who want to make a living driving with other people, and it's really good that somebody wants to, there are some guidelines that they have to live up to and that are the same for everyone. I think that's really good.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170803	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170806	I should also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur, Mr Vredeling, for his excellent report. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen, for the constructive cooperation that has been in this area, in terms of getting a modern taxi law, but also legislation that ensures that taxes are paid in this area and that there will be climate and environmental requirements for the cars. That's a good thing. Sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen says that this flex traffic is getting a little out of hand and that there are some examples out there that people are using it instead of a taxi. Well, that sounds pretty disturbing, but maybe sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen did not confirm that we actually specifically asked about this rumor in the negotiations and that we got figures that showed that far, by far, most flextur driving was in places where a bus had been laid down or where people had to use it for hospital services and such things, i.e. not as a substitute for a taxi? - Sir... Kristian Pihl Lorentzen doesn't confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170908	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170909	Yes, I can confirm that, and I would like to repeat that basically I think that flex traffic is positive where it goes in and replaces the empty buses that drove around. It was expensive and it was not very environmentally friendly that large empty buses were driven around. So basically flex traffic is really good. But there are still a few municipalities where I think it has got out of hand when taxpayers' money starts driving around with young people to discotheques in the middle of the night. That's not the point, I think. But I respect municipal autonomy, which is why it is up to the municipalities to do so if they want to spend the money on that. I just don't think it makes sense. But that's also why the municipalities have to deal with the fact that if you do that, it's gonna be hard for ordinary taxi truckmen to live when there are flex cars like that riding around with taxpayers' subsidies in the back.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170957	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026170958	Then I think we are in complete agreement. Well, that's not the point of flex driving, and it's not something that's very common in this area either. And if it is, it is because some municipalities have specifically chosen it, and this can then be decided here in connection with the municipal elections. The real problem in this area is probably some of the OST cars driving around out there, where there are disorganised labour, where there is wage dumping and where there are very dubious working conditions. Will the Left help to secure some ground rules in this area so that we don't have these almost wild west-like conditions that apply in some of these cars, where people don't get a decent salary, and where they have to run the sun black to earn a month's salary at all?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171041	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171041-2	I think that everyone who offers some kind of task should think well before, and if a municipality or a region has to offer some kind of driving, it is up to them to lay down certain requirements for it. For example, when we proposed the construction of the Fehmarn fixed link, we made a number of social demands that there should be apprenticeships and everything else. We did that on the part of the state. In the same way, of course, when you as a municipality and a region offer something you should relate to that sort of thing. And if you get some prices that are incredibly low so you can see that they can hardly exist for that, you have to deal with the politically out there. We can't do that in here. That is why we have local and regional elected representatives.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171121	Thank you, sir. Kristian Pihl Lorentzen for today's magnificent work. We move on to Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171131	As you know, Enhedslisten chose to stay out of the agreement on a new taxi law, but we were involved in almost the entire negotiation process. We did so because, in our opinion, we managed to liberalise the industry to an entirely unnecessary extent, and this should be seen in the light of the fact that we believe that existing legislation would be the best starting point for making clearly necessary changes, but certainly not to the extent that we have now come to terms with it. We believe that the previous structure of association, combined with legislation that ensured a regulated profession, has actually proved its worth and contributed to the fact that today we have a profession. I think everyone recognizes that there is healthy and largely populated by road hauliers and drivers who are doing what they can to get an honest livelihood from the work of transporting people. Well, we don't believe that what we're dealing with now is a broad desire in the industry. I referred to this in one of my questions, and I have referred directly to the fact that we do not believe that what we are now opening up to, namely what should we say about the possibility of capitalising the profession and the possibility of company formation and something like that, is a broad wish. And we do not really think that is positive in relation to the way it is happening today. In fact, the Minister for Transport, who can almost be said to be covered by the discussions on Uber, succeeded in bringing about, in our view, an unprecedented liberalisation and deregulation of a well-regulated profession. So while everyone was concerned about not giving any room to Uber in the new legislation, we were also very concerned about that in the Enhedslisten, but in our opinion that was actually settled almost before we started the negotiations. It is certainly not a bad political craftsmanship on the part of the Minister for Transport, but it was just a pity that only Enhedslisten really had such a serious eye on that problem. Our main appeal, and where we see the greatest danger in this legislative proposal, is, of course, as I have mentioned, the reduction in numbers which is being lifted and the abolition of the geographical limitation. We believe that this will give rise to unhealthy competition in cities where customers are first and foremost, and we are not sure that hauliers and drivers can be sure that they will be able to maintain an adequate income at all. And we believe that the profession will be characterized by chance-riders and bankruptcy-riders for that matter... who will just have to try if it works out and who will otherwise leave the profession after a short time when they discover that it didn't work out. In our opinion, it is a realistic scenario with these relaxed access requirements that are being introduced now that it becomes easier to become both a driver and a carrier. Then there is the whole question of the collective agreement. In this bill, it's inscribed in section 10. This is the completely unanswered question, which is of course also relevant to both the law on goods and the bus law, because it is essentially the same wording that is used there. That is why it is absolutely essential to clarify it, and it is also requested in a series of consultation responses, including from the Transport Group and DI Transport, but the draft law does not, of course, provide that. This is something that we in the Enhedslist are very concerned about, and that is why, in the course of the negotiations, we called for a solution on several occasions, but we did so before. For the current legal situation, as defined by the Supreme Court judgment of 4 February 2015, is quite simply untenable. If you are in doubt about it, you can just look at how it has developed into the pure wild west in the area of OST permits, which are of course used in flex traffic. I find it incomprehensible that when the Minister has the chance, he does not cut through and once and for all have a wording that restores the state of law from before the Supreme Court ruling, as everyone is asking for. 3F has proposed a wording in their consultation answer, DI Transport refers to the protocol agreed with 3F in the collective bargaining process for the purpose of a formulation. There is the circular on labour clauses in the public sector, where there is a formulation very similar to that of the ILO Convention, which states that wages must be guaranteed, including special benefits, working hours and other working conditions which are no less favourable than those applicable to work of the same kind under collective agreements concluded by the most representative social partners in the relevant field in this case, i.e. Denmark, which applies to the whole Danish territory. It is also the one to which ATAX refers. So why isn't it cut through here? One might almost think that it was the Minister's wish to maintain the present unsustainable conditions where everything flows and where completely unsustainable bids of 215-220 DKK are made. per hour in flex traffic. It is also very significant in this respect that both the general comments and the comments on section 10 and the consultation note's comments are very, very brief, to put it mildly. And that leads me to believe that the Minister must consider it a wasp nest and that the applicable § 5 paragraph. 5, therefore, is merely continued in section 10 of the new bill, instead of the Minister putting himself together with the main players in the profession and putting things in place. Well, I guess I've exceeded my time. In such a comprehensive legislative proposal there is much I would have liked to have commented on, but that does not allow time, so I look forward to an even very thorough committee reading.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171728	There is a small additional possibility, as there is a brief remark from Mr. Rasmus Prehn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171732	Now I have praised the other colleagues for the good negotiations and such things, and I think that even if Mr. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten chose not to be in the end, sir. Henning Hyllested have some praise, because it was actually a very good course we had during these negotiations, where Enhedslisten, in many ways, helped to draw in a very positive direction and make constructive recordings. So I think that Enhedslisten should consider whether, in general, one should not be more real political and be involved in some of these things, because there are some good results coming out of it. So says Mr. Henning Hyllested, that he doesn't acknowledge this, that in general there should be a desire in the industry for this legislation. Well, that's entirely up to Mr. Knox. Henning Hyllested himself to interpret it, but can Mr. Henning Hyllested did not confirm that the Danish Taxi Council and 3F, who are the organizers of the taxi hauliers and then the drivers respectively, have thus expressed a positive opinion, i.e. that this law is a step in the right direction?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171834	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171836	Well, the last thing I can confirm is that DTR and also 3F have made that statement. It is clearly my view that the DTR speaks very much on behalf of the Copenhagen taxi industry, as I said. It certainly does not find the support of any of the taxi associations I've talked to in the province. It is also true that 3F backs this, and I must honestly admit that I simply do not understand it, because my discussions with many of the 3F shop stewards in this area have shown that they are extremely concerned about the increasing competition that will arise, not least in cities where the taxi industry is widespread and where you have the many members. So why the Transport Group in 3F, even my own group, has ended up supporting this, I do not understand. I can say that quite openly.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171925	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026171927	That may be because it is a step in the right direction in relation to the undermining that was set up to where it was pure wild west that was the alternative. That could be why. But sir... Henning Hyllested does not agree that what is needed is for us to take the next step in getting the legal status restored from before the NORTRA judgment, so that we get the most representative agreements to apply in this area, and so that we ensure, even when regions and municipalities make calls for tenders, that we operate with some kind of social clause? We almost heard the rapporteur of the Left not use the word social clause, but it was just before he said that we must make demands that ensure that there are proper conditions. Isn't this the direction we need to take to ensure that at least in this area of the OST licence there is more custom, because there are places where the way it works is simply not acceptable?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172018	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172020	Yes, I fully agree with that, and I also made a great effort in my rapporteur's speech to say that this is an outstanding problem, and I think it is a pity that no new taxi legislation is being used to address this issue. I very much agree that as long as it flows as it does, some of it could be corrected, precisely by the fact that transport companies, regions and municipalities demanded social clauses in their tenders. Some people do that today, and in some places it actually works well, and control mechanisms are coming up, also driven by, among others. 3F. But there are still large areas, Central traffic, South traffic, which refuse to have anything to do with it, and they will not supplement their supply with social clauses. So, yes, clearly, the biggest outstanding problem we have at the moment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172111	Thank you, sir. Henning Hyllested for today's efforts, and welcome to Mrs Christina Egelund, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172122	Thank you, President. I am pleased that today we are discussing the liberalisation of the taxi industry in Denmark, because it is the geographical restriction that will be lifted so that you can drive a taxi throughout the country if you get a permit. One type of licence is introduced for commercial passenger transport in cars; the number limit is lifted so that the Danes will have better opportunities to get a taxi and it is needed; the customers will have the opportunity to agree a fixed price with their taxi driver; all measures that make it easier for individual hauliers and drivers to run their business and that will make it a better experience to be a taxi customer in Denmark. I do not think it is a secret that we in the Liberal Alliance would have liked to have gone even further in the liberalisation of legislation. We would have liked to have given new forms of taxi driving easier opportunities to operate in Denmark. However, we welcome the fact that the new business platforms with the adoption of this bill are closer to being able to operate in Denmark than they have been in the past. So, overall, there is only a small drop of wormwood in the liberal cup, because overall, this is a very good, liberal bill that we are dealing with because it gives citizens and the profession new opportunities. It removes a number of restrictions and it strengthens competition in the taxi market for the benefit of all. The Liberal Alliance supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172259	Thank you. Sir. Kim Christiansen, Danish People's Party, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172306	It was Mrs Christina Egelund's remark that with this bill one had, after all, come closer to new companies, new technologies could operate in Denmark. Then there is something in the proposal that I have not read. I do not know how to reach that conclusion.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172331	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172333	That conclusion reaches the list that is also in my speech by removing some obstacles and liberalising the market, and I think the rapporteur also said that in his own speech, and in general it makes it easier and more flexible to operate taxi services in Denmark. So in relation to the starting point before this bill is adopted, we will, after all, have a more liberal market, a market in which it will be easier to establish itself, also for new types of business platforms.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172404	I agree so far that there will be easier access to permits. But we also agree that there is still a taxi bill, that there are some requirements that need to be met. So this thing about platforms that we just heard at the end, I'm pretty sure it's not part of this. Then it is because the Liberal Alliance is trying to talk something out that they didn't get through in relation to the law, and that is of course entirely legitimate, but there I just want to get the ban on the ground. So this isn't about easier access for new platform economies. There is a regulated industry and there are some requirements to be able to drive a taxi in Denmark. Then it is clear that for those who want it, there has been easier access.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172444	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172446	I'll confirm that, sir. Kim Christiansen says that with this bill we're not abolishing the taxi law. There will still be regulation in this market, and I think I also recognised that in my rapporteur's speech. What I am just saying, and which I welcome, is that with this law we are liberalising the market, and that makes everything else equally more flexible, both for new operators, but also for the current operators on the market to operate and operate a more sensible business. And I think that basically is really healthy.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172517	Sir. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172519	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund for joining us in this debate. After all, it is not the case that we have had the luck of having Mrs Christina Egelund in the negotiations that have taken place on taxi legislation. There we have had the pleasure of the party colleague Mr. Villum Christensen. However, it is gratifying that the Liberal Alliance, which has otherwise really campaigned for us to have completely wild west relations in this area, has helped to take responsibility for legislation ensuring that taxes are paid and that there must be environmental and climate requirements in these taxi cars. I would like to sign for that because it is positive that you can go in constructively and be a part of it. Nevertheless, Mrs Christina Egelund chooses to open the door to the fact that it is a pity that there is no room for any of these new exciting companies. This is not, of course, the case, as our excellent rapporteur, Mrs Mette Reissmann, said, that we are opposed to new technology, we can easily see that, but can Mrs Christina Egelund not recognise that one of the problems that has been involved, among other things. Uber, is that there have not really been any of the places where they have worked, where taxes have been paid, and that it has actually happened that in large cities such as New York and London and Paris they have been judged out because there was not enough control over the tax payments and that it is therefore very good that we here in Denmark have a law that has more control over these things?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172646	Well, first of all, I would like to thank you for recognising that we ended up finding each other in the end. I can take a very small part, actually no part of the credit for that. I'm here to replace Mr. Simpson. Mr Villum Christensen, as the questioner rightly says. I don't know what these western movies are, sir. Rasmus Prehn has seen, at least it's not the same as I've seen. Because in the Western movies I've seen, it's such scenarios with cowboys and Indians shooting at each other at the salon, and that's not exactly the legal situation we in the Liberal Alliance had imagined at the taxi market. So I don't quite know what these western movies are, sir. Rasmus Prehn knows who I don't know. But we are talking here about well-known disagreements, and it is also one of the things that has taken us some time to find each other in this area. It is not a secret, nor have we concealed it in my party, that we would like to liberalise more than what has been done, but that is why we naturally welcome the good liberal steps taken with this bill. And then I can just confirm that we are, of course, a party that believes that any company operating in Denmark must pay the tax that has now been decided upon.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172800	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172803	Well, I'm really happy with this last point that you obviously have to pay taxes when it's driving a taxi. That is why the legislative proposal we are discussing here has also been made. And then I would like to stress that this metaphor about wild west does not refer to cowboys and Indians, lasso and tjubang, but simply to some form of lawlessness, where it is pure anarchy and there are no rules, and I think a little that the Liberal Alliance in some of what they were saying in this debate sounded like they would rather have an anarchist society than a legal society. And there I am glad that it has finally been chosen here to enlist in a law that will ensure that we continue to have a community of law in this area too.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172841	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172843	Well, I'm glad that Mr. Knox... Rasmus Prehn hasn't seen Western movies in which the Indians drove around in Uber, because that sounded really funny, and I would have missed something exciting. In other words, we do not want the Wild West in this area, nor do I think it is speaking openly in an agenda that looks positively at new technologies. In my optics, Uber is an excellent company. There are also a large number of Danes who think so, otherwise they probably wouldn't have downloaded the app and been happy to use it, something that many of us do when we travel abroad. So it is, after all, a question of finding a regulation that makes sense in relation to the individual countries. But it doesn't make sense with the totally blank rejection of the positive view, for example. a company such as Uber or others which, after all, forms new business platforms based on modern technology. So I think that maybe sir... Rasmus Prehn accuses us of wanting the Wild West, but on the other hand I think that the debate may have been a little preoccupied with having to be in 1950.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172947	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026172951	These were the last remarks that got me a little out of the chair here. Because I suddenly wonder whether it is the view of the Liberal Alliance or Mrs Christina Egelund that it is actually a good thing to have a regulated, no, let us say a well-regulated profession where there are demands on the operators and, in this case, on road hauliers and drivers. Not only do some capital requirements require them to make such and so much money in order to be able to drive, but there are also requirements for training, requirements for good repute and requirements at all. Among other things, is it... Is it not what has helped to ensure that today, despite everything, we have a profession that is well regulated and that is also a good and healthy profession, in which, in principle, there is no room, even if they exist in all professions, for all sorts of strange bandits, as I usually call them?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173049	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173051	Well, there is no doubt that when it comes to business policy, the regulators are not the same in the Liberal Alliance as they are in the Enhedslisten. So, in some of the political regimes, which are more like what the Enhedslisten subscribes to than what the Liberal Alliance subscribes to, there are just a lot of bad examples of how things are going really wrong when the state wants to overregulate or directly govern various liberal professions. That is why it is my basic position and the basic position of the Liberal Alliance that professions should be allowed to operate as freely as possible and, of course, could do so within a regulatory framework that makes sense. We're not anarchists in the Liberal Alliance. But it is good for citizens when the market is allowed to advise as freely as possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173139	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173141	But exactly the subject, the industry we are talking about, the taxi industry, has so far been one of the highly regulated professions. And I fully agree that the Liberal Alliance had some other demands for a new taxi law that it did not come through with, and that is fair enough, that is how it is political. However, I would like to know whether it seems to me that the previous legislation and regulations on the profession have led to the taxi industry being unhealthy today. I said in my first question that I certainly do not think it is. I also said in my rapporteur's speech that, on the contrary, we have a healthy profession. Previously, when it was more free, if we go back 20 or 30 years, it was full of bandits, and it was cheated, so it ran, within the industry.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173234	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173236	Well, let me put it this way: if we in the Liberal Alliance thought the status quo was really good and healthy, I think the questioner said, we wouldn't have changed our minds. We wouldn't have done that. We can only see that one of the consequences of the current regulation, for example. is that in this autumn or since this summer it has been quite difficult to drive a taxi in Copenhagen, especially at some times of the day. We have seen the Copenhagen hotel industry shouting guard in the rifle of concern that they could not provide the service of getting their customers a taxi. That is the consequence of too strict regulation, and you can subscribe to it if you are into it, but we are not.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173316	Thank you to Mrs Christina Egelund for today's work, and welcome to Mr. Nikolai Amstrup of the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173326	Thank you very much. The proposal here has been thoroughly examined by all the parties to the agreement, of which we are not part. Unfortunately, I did not participate in the negotiations, but even if I had, I would probably not have voted in favour of the proposal. The fact that we are dealing with a proposal for a taxi law and calling it a taxi law, the fact that it is a purely sectoral legislation, is probably also in fact an indication of what we in the alternative think is fundamentally wrong with the bill, namely that it is a legislative proposal that legislates for the present and very much for the past, but unfortunately not very much for the future. And it's not at all because I don't think taxi driving will be part of the future. I very much believe it does. In fact, I think it will be a much more integrated part of the ways we transport around, a kind of link in the chain to get from A to B in mobility as a service, but a flexible link that can look in a lot of different ways, depending on where, when and who has the need for transport. I would like to see a link that looked a little more like an even smaller and more environmentally friendly car, like a common-owned car, like a car which, at times of the day, when it was not needed for taxi driving, made something quite different, and also for that matter ultimately as a self-propelled car. Unfortunately, however, this is not the kind of flexibility and security for the future that is being proposed with this bill. The demands for the very old-fashioned technology such as seat sensors, taximeters and fixed cameras are very rigid, and they really stop the opportunities to use the technological development that we are in the midst of in a constructive and forward-looking way. All of these functions could actually be performed by a mobile phone, while automatically reporting taxes, because of course, and let it be perfectly clear that, of course, we also believe that any company operating on Danish soil should pay proper taxes. But this technology could also be used to do these automatic alerts, if we had SKAT updated with an API that could accept it. In this way, we leave the possibility of being technological frontrunners to other countries, and I think that is an absolute mistake and very short-sighted. We could make a different type of legislation with a flexible transition, which of course needed to maintain good safety, but which also actually allowed established providers on the market to develop far more technologically and at the same time provided room for new and exciting solutions in the mobility market. Of course, there are also parts of the legislative proposal that we are satisfied with, for example. the greater geographical flexibility and the number limits, but unfortunately that is not enough to get us to vote in favour of a law that we in the basic substance consider not as visionary, but as reactionary. So the alternative cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173648	Thank you. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173653	Well, thank you for this alternative feature. That's interesting to hear. One of the things I attached myself to was the alternative's resistance to cameras in these cab cars. It is the case that these cameras in the cabs came on as a mandatory requirement, because there were many situations where there were violent attacks in taxis. There were examples of rape. There were examples that the driver too was violently attacked. That's why you chose to have this surveillance so that you could make sure that people could be safe, both when they were doing their job as a driver, but also when people were driven home alone in the night life and could be attacked. Is it such a new line of legal policy that there should be a free fight for rape and violent abuse and that we should therefore not have these cameras?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173757	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173758	I think sir... Rasmus Prehn would be somewhat surprised if I answered yes to that question. And no, of course it is not. But as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, these things are possible, for example. mobile phones and other unmounted devices. There is a constant development in camera technology and also in intelligent camera technology that identifies what is happening and who is on the pictures. So we do not think that these very rigid rules are necessary in relation to it, but that other technological possibilities can also be solved.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173842	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173843	We are fully aware that everything can be imagined in the future. The rapporteur also mentioned that we will have self-propelled cars, and at some point we will probably also have flying cars, and of course we will have to be prepared for that, because nobody is opposed to that. And if it comes, we have to take it into account. However, can the rapporteur not confirm that in the models where you have been app-based alone, there has been no video surveillance function that has been able to provide sufficient security for drivers and passengers, as the video camera does today? Can't the alternative confirm that?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173916	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173918	Yes, and at the risk of promising something on behalf of companies, I am absolutely certain that it would very, very quickly become part of the app developers' absolute focus point if it became part of a Danish legislation. We should not underestimate the fact that we have the possibility of using legislation to drive these technologies forward, and that is also in connection with what I said, namely that we could be technological frontrunners in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173948	Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026173952	Thank you very much. From the point of view of Radicals, we share the frustration of the alternative that very technology-specific requirements have been included in this. But I just have to understand the rapporteur correctly: the alternative would simply rather keep the existing taxi legislation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174009	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174010	We are not happy with the existing taxi legislation. We merely believe that the proposal here is such a brake on developments that could have been that we have very, very difficult to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174025	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174028	Now it can be said that there is no majority in the Folketing to remove the additional technology requirements. So the choice you have as a parliamentary politician is whether you want the existing legislation or whether you want the new one here, for example. This means that we can create freedom of establishment, that is to say, small companies, and where we do not have this restriction on local authorities. So it has to be understood that if you vote against this bill, the only other alternative to it is to apologize for the choice of So I can hardly understand the rapporteur in any other way than that we would rather have the existing law than what we can politically achieve in a democracy where there must be a majority in favour of things.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174102	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174103	What is also happening in our view with the new legislation is that we are stopping the development of this type of legislation for at least one year. That is probably basically the main reason why we are voting against it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174119	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174123	Thank you. What I really just wanted to hear was that I could understand at Nikolaj Amstrup, that when you're not using this iPhone and this new platform and economy, but instead, for the safety of both drivers and passengers, you've committed yourself to something as simple as a camera and something as simple as a taximeter that can at least establish with great certainty that there has been an income and that, therefore, we have to pay some tax, we're almost suffering a technological backward step in relation to the rest of the world. That's painting with an equally large brush, isn't it? I mean, we're not gonna stop anyone from developing other technologies with this. I recognize the excellent qualities of the iPhone, it can probably be used for many things. At some point, you might imagine that it could make politicians redundant. But Mr. Nikolaj Amstrup really seriously that this is a technological step backwards for Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174231	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174231-2	The short answer is yes. We believe that this is a technological step backwards in maintaining a technology which could at present be made much more flexible. The technology is here, but we choose not to use it. This also means that, when we compare ourselves with other countries, we will, of course, be lagging behind in this development.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174255	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174257	I see it as such a general decline because we are not using this technology. Yeah, that's probably possible, but I don't think you're gonna stop developing on this, even in Denmark. And I still think that it was perhaps just to paint with a slightly large brush to call it a technological backward step, that we should commit ourselves to the sure and ensure fair and equal competition in the taxi market, because that is what we have done by stopping these iPhone pirates.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174330	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174331	Now, basically, I have nothing good to say about iPhone pirates or about other pirates. That, in our view, is not what this is about. There is no reason to want to make the technology that already exists illegal, but there is nevertheless room for a newer technology.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174352	Sir. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174354	Well, one thing is this technological development. I also think it should be allowed to do so, and I cannot see that there is no room in the proposal for a taxi law. I have already outlined on several occasions that the taxi industry has, in fact, already been watching under existing legislation, and that I think that this thing about proclaiming Uber to the whole new and large in this respect was in fact a little exaggerated. But one thing is the whole technology in the taxi sector, but another thing I would like to hear the alternative about, because I am getting a little in doubt now is the requirements for it to transport around with strangers. Does the alternative not think that it is basically a very good idea that there are also tough demands being made on hauliers and drivers to be allowed to lie and carry people around and that we do not get the regime that Uber stood for, namely that it could really do to God and every man that you actually have to have a permit to lie down and do this profession?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174501	Of course, we also believe that there must be requirements both in terms of safety and in terms of the environment. What we would like to see too, and now I know that Mr. Henning Hyllested is also interested in meeting the mobility requirements in the rural areas... was just that one could be more flexible in this area. If one imagined that a village had a common-owned car that was not necessarily designed as a taxi but met some specific requirements, then they could have a flexible solution which at the same time did not require this car to be a taxi all the time. That is the kind of flexibility we are asking for.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174545	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174546	I very much agree with that, and I believe that we have also opened up this kind of mechanism in the context of the conciliation circle we have on better and cheaper public transport, where we have a pool of support for public transport in the outermost regions and where we are operating on these village buses and the possibility of establishing village buses, which are actually on the basis of the concept that Mr. Nikolai Amstrup is looking for him.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174613	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174614	Thank you. Yes, that type exists, and it is amazing that it can be operated on a voluntary basis. What might also be interesting was, if it could give some, if I may say so, flexible, self-created senior jobs, thus also providing a certain amount of income at the same time as flexibility in rural areas.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174635	Thank you, sir. Nikolaj Amstrup for today's work. And we welcome Mrs Ida Auken from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026174644	Finally, here we are, first treating a new taxi law. After many years of debate, we have finally managed to secure a majority for a more modern and modern law than the one we know. The law represents a compromise between the parties here in the Folketing. The Radical Left supports the law because we think it is better than the old one, but if we had 90 seats, we would have made the law differently. This is particularly true of the taximeter requirement, which we think is outdated and old-fashioned. The law, on the other hand, brings with it a series of modernisations which the Radical Left welcomes. First of all, there will be freedom of establishment. Today each municipality decides how many taxis there must be and who must have a permit, so one person cannot start his own company. Taxi is the only profession I can think of where it matters. Imagine if you told a carpenter's turn that he was not allowed to start himself because the existing companies should not have competition. The law today is absurd and unreasonable, and we are pleased that the taxi market is being freed. Today, you cannot drive a taxi in company form either. It is also a false and unreasonable restriction that prevents innovation and innovation. The law removes that obstacle, and we are pleased about that. Finally, the municipal restriction is also removed. Today, a taxi driver is only allowed to drive in the municipality in which the permit is granted. It's weird, too. The law makes it possible to operate throughout the country and not only in one municipality. The Radical Left also warmly supports this. The Radical Left wanted environmental requirements and demands for trained drivers to be maintained. We're glad it ended up that way too. This means that the green lounge continues to be kept high. In principle, a shared economy can be done with this law, and it will also allow us to take some more steps towards mobility as a service. Today, on average, a car drives 5 per cent. of the time, and that means that 95 per cent. of time, then, a car keeps quiet and is useless. It would be much better for us to be able to get more cars running much more of the time, and that is what you can do when you start switching to a system where you have mobility and therefore transport as the important and not ownership form, i.e. whether you now own your own car. With this bill you can use your private car to drive a taxi, but you have to install an old-fashioned taximeter, and it annoys us, but it was an absolute demand from the Danish People's Party, the SF, the Enhedslisten and the Social Democratic Party. A taximeter costs a lot of money and is completely out of date. We think that other technologies should have been opened up, for example. apps. In our opinion, the taximeter will mostly benefit certain companies and thus reduce competition. The argument for the meter is that it ensures tax control. Tax controls are important to us too, but the meter is not necessary. The Act obliges companies to report to SKAT, and during the negotiations SKAT sent a note proposing to allocate money to more tax control in the taxi sector. Radical Left thinks it would have been a way to go rather than impose an old-fashioned technology, which primarily benefits certain players and makes it more expensive for many to operate a taxi business. Finally, I should also like to mention the OST problem. OST is responsible for public service traffic and is driving with e.g. schoolchildren, disabled people and patients. Here you choose to make quite different demands, for example. Taximeters are not required here, and this means that taxis have difficulty winning offers for public tasks, as they are too expensive. And that's unfair to the cabs, we think. The parties that imposed the taximeter were not willing to pay the extra money that would have to be paid by the public authorities, and we think that is a little paradoxical, because this is how the difference between public transport and taxi will be maintained, unfortunately. Overall, the Radical Left believes that this law is better than the present one, and that is why we are voting in favour, although we hope to be able to change it at a later stage so that it becomes more ready for a modern reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175047	Thank you to Mrs Ida Auken. There are a few brief comments, the first is from Mr. Rasmus Prehn.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175052	First of all, thank you to Mrs Ida Auken for her speech. We really agree that it is much better than what was that it is a step in the right direction, so it is positive. What amazes me a little is that Mrs Ida Auken makes it sound a bit like there's a horde of machine stormers who have just been sitting around and looking at the future and are against these app-based solutions, and that's not real. Well, the thing is, we actually got a look at what these apps can do, and we got a look at some of the countries that have tried these solutions. And there we can see that it simply does not guarantee the tax payment adequately. So it is not the expression of some resistance to an app-based solution. It is merely an opposition to the fact that one does not have sufficient security of tax. And that's why we've agreed that until 110%. security can say that the app solutions can secure tax payments, then we continue with a taximeter. Besides, it's not very expensive. Is the rapporteur aware of the cost of such a taximeter before it is turned up to be wasted?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175204	We shall hear that now, that is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175205	Thank you. Well, we think, first of all, that you could look at other ways. Of course, you can use an app far along the way if you take some of the platforms that are. If we imagine that now we have called a taxi or another vehicle via a digital platform, and we imagine that now the driver and the person just agree that they are jumping off, then of course it can be seen in the GPS, and that can be seen in the mobile pay overviews that SKAT also has the opportunity to look into. If you want to use the money for tax control, we believe that you will get an equally secure solution and at the same time make it possible for people not to go out and buy these taximeters. Now I'm not the transport rapporteur, but my bid would be that the price of a taximeter is about 10,000 kroner, but Mr. Rasmus Prehn certainly enlightens me. I'm sure he's got the daily price.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175252	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175253	Now Mrs Ida Auken says that you think it can be done with an app. Many people believed that in these negotiations, and that is why we called for experts in this area, and we also called for experiences from abroad, and so it was just that we could not be guaranteed with sufficient certainty that the tax was in order, and that is why we chose to make the solution that we have now. Can we then imagine a solution where we can control it in the future? Yeah, you can do that. That's also why this law needs to be re-evaluated and so on, and if it's that you have a sufficiently secure app-based solution in the future, you can introduce it. And the cheapest of these taximeters out there, you can get less than 5,000 kroner, so it's not like you're gonna be ruined if you're gonna set this up in your car, but on the other hand, we're quite sure you're gonna get the tax thing under control. You can't just turn off and unplug, no, the table prisoners, and you have to report when you have a drive, and then there's no way to run around the community by not paying tax.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175354	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175355	Now, by its very nature, I was not at that hearing, as I am not the rapporteur in this area, but my assessment as an IT rapporteur is that, of course, you can run it over a digital platform and at the same time see when it gets disconnected. Both the company and SKAT have a common interest in looking at patterns, see if there is money on Mobile Pay. In fact, I think an app solution with tax control on top of that will be at least as secure a solution, if not even safer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175421	Then it's mr. Kim Christiansen is no longer in as good company as before.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175426	Thank you. And now I will be nice, because I know that Mrs Ida Auken is not the rapporteur in this area. First of all, I could understand an ambition that if you were given 90 mandates, you would change this. And then I'll be much more calm right now, because I don't think that's gonna happen. Now we've got this illuminated by the price of a meter. And the reason I'm gonna take the floor anyway is that I'm gonna do this myth in the ground, which, among other things, is... The Radical Left is now coming along and, as the Liberal Alliance and others have also said, it is extremely expensive to set up as a taxi trucker. It's not. It costs the equipment that is in the cars • the total cost of it. So it's not much more than four winter tires and four aluminum rims. So it's not this big cost that you want to make it. That was just a comment to the rapporteur. I also predict that there will be this myth of favoritism. So now there are a few companies that make taximeters... not so many do. There are not so many people who make iphones or tablets or what they are called, but it is not to favour them, I assume that the Radicals would rather have preferred a solution that was on the iphone. And we do not favour certain car brands just because we impose environmental requirements. We do this because it is common sense and in order to ensure equal and fair competition. And that is really just my comment, i.e. if the rapporteur does not think that it is at least a very good starting point to ensure that there is fair competition.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175555	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175556	Thank you. And again, as a non-super-expert in this area, and as I am not a transport rapporteur, I would like to say that the question must then be turned around and said that it is not felt that, in relation to the OST issue, in other words public service traffic, all these technologies should be required because it is too expensive for the public sector to pay for the same technology requirements for all those who have to run for public service traffic. So if you think it is too expensive for the public, why do you not think it is for the citizens? Why do you not think it is an expensive effect if you make that demand on other types of taxis? I would like to turn this question to the Danish People's Party and ask for an answer to Mr. Kim Christiansen was on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175632	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175633	Now we got a change of roles. In my rapporteur's speech, I explained that I do not think that OST is the world's best invention, because it becomes very easily the lowest common denominator, so you have some miserable pay and working conditions. In any case, we would like to ensure that this did not happen to the taxi industry as well. That is why we have these taxis requirements, in other words, precisely to ensure that some money is also being brought in and that some taxes are also being paid and so on. etc. So in relation to the OST part, we are actually very much in agreement on that we can easily find a solution at some point, and I expect a DUT demand from the municipalities with great serenity, because I don't think it's okay that you have the favoritism of that type of car.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175717	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175719	In other words, as I understand this problem, one could also go the other way and say that if one trusts that it works in the public sector, it can also work with taxis, and at the same time one can ensure that taxis can actually run these OST tasks. In other words, in a small town where there may not be such a large market for driving with private citizens, you might say that if you never get the tasks from the public in Djursland or where it is, why should you drive around with people? And that is where we say that it is better to give the municipalities the opportunity, also for them to have a level playing field, and that you might as well use a taxi, so that you can also cover your municipality in other times.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175759	Thank you very much to Mrs Ida Auken for today's work. We welcome Mr. Carl Valentin of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175806	Thank you very much. SF is part of the agreement behind the new taxi law and therefore also supports the bill. Basically, there has been a need to modernise the taxi industry, and this is done with the agreement in a responsible and forward-looking way. It will be easier to obtain a taxi licence, the price fixing will be uniform, while the essential requirements for car design will be maintained. At least as important is the agreement to ensure fair and equal conditions of competition in Denmark, no unsolidarous undermining, ailing security or tax forgery, for security conditions are maintained, control of tax payments is ensured so that everyone contributes to the community and infringements are sanctioned. However, I note that 3F points out in its consultation answer that there may be doubts about the interpretation of section 10 of the draft law, in which we naturally assume that the provision must be understood in such a way that the collective agreements in question must have been concluded by the most representative social partners, as we expect to have established in the committee's work. But all in all, as I said, the SF supports the bill, and we see it as a responsible and balanced modernisation of the taxi industry, in which fair competition is ensured. On the whole, I am proud and pleased that the SF, under a bourgeois government, can help secure taxi legislation with a focus on fixed working conditions. The Minister of Transport's dreams of the excessive liberalisation of the taxi law have been run over. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175942	That's what we say. Thank you, sir. Carl Valentin. There are no more rapporteurs, so I propose that we move on to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026175956	Thank you. Now I will start with something that may be a secret to many in this Chamber, namely that back in 1993, when I had just moved to Aarhus, I stood for the municipal elections at 20 years of age for the Left. I was elected by the Left Youth to stand on the Left List. It was a very little successful campaign. I had no money to campaign for, I had no money to get printed printed or posters, so I was very little visible and of course was not chosen either. The most significant element in my election campaign was that I had one letter printed in Aarhus Stiftstidende, which was about one thing, namely that the municipal hire wagon board in Aarhus was to be abolished. The letter of the reader argued passionately that the planned economy in the taxi area in Aarhus, with a taxi committee that determined the number of wagons that could be there and how to drive, should be abolished. Instead, there should be freedom of establishment and free competition for the sake of consumers. I don't think that hire wagon board at the time feared for its life in Aarhus. My campaign was too small and too insignificant. However, I note that when this law is passed and comes into force on 1 January 2018, my 1993 election promise in Aarhus to abolish the municipal taxon board has been implemented, although I was not elected to the city council in Aarhus at the time. Henning Hyllested and therefore, of course, I am delighted today, and I welcome the positive reception of the draft law given by the rapporteurs here. That is also in line with the agreement we have made. The agreement on the modernisation of the taxi law, which forms the basis for the drafting of the bill, was a long time in the process, and it is no secret that the various basic political positions made it difficult to reach an agreement. But we did, and I am both proud and happy about that, because the bill is needed. The aim of the draft law is to remove some of the many restrictions that are currently in the area of commercial passenger transport in cars. By removing some of the restrictions, the industry will be better able to compete on different parameters, e.g.: on price or service to customers. And let me mention the three main limitations. Today it is forbidden to be a carrier, that is to say to offer services in business in company form. It must only be a one-man business. That prohibition shall be lifted. Today it is forbidden to drive outside the municipality limit and pick up customers who would like to drive with you. That prohibition shall be lifted. And the last, but in my opinion the most important point, is that the limit on numbers should also be lifted, so that everyone can now establish themselves as road hauliers and be allowed to drive a taxi as a business in their own business. Let me make a comment on Mr. Henning Hyllested from Enhedslisten, who, I think, also has the odd view of a socialist that the workers should not be allowed to become capitalists. Taxi drivers should not be allowed to save up for their own car or borrow for their own car and then operate road haulage as self-employed. The legislation must force them to continue to be drivers of a lorry driver who has the privilege of being allowed to be a capitalist in the area of his own business. This is such a pre-capitalist attitude, as Mr. Henning Hyllested here likes, in other words in the privileged society, before opening up to free access and freedom of nutrition etc., where it was the nobility that sat on it all. It is the ideal for a business policy in Denmark in the taxi field. There are a few people who must have the privilege of being allowed to be road hauliers, and anyone else who wants to enter the industry can only be allowed to be employees of the trucker. The legislation must ensure that they are not allowed to become hauliers. I don't understand that point of view. I do not understand it, regardless of the starting point, but I do not understand it either, if your starting point is that you are a socialist like Mr. Henning Hylllested. At the same time, we are introducing new and more modernised requirements for data collection. Data collection has several purposes. Firstly, it must enable the authorities to control the profession. Secondly, the collection of data should, if necessary, be possible in the case of complaints, so that the facts about a given taxi will always be present, that is to say, an advantage to consumers. Taxi companies are already using some data to get an overview of their business, their turnover per year. wagon, level of coverage per vehicle; car, where the cars are, etc. In future, because of the abolition of a number of restrictions on the profession, there will be even better opportunities for taxi companies to streamline and expand their business. In other words, the taxi companies will have the opportunity to grow because the number limitation and the geographical limitation will be removed. In general, the individual company can in future adapt as it considers it most appropriate and in accordance with what customers demand. The draft law introduces one type of permit and one place to apply for authorisation. By centralising the processing of all applications within the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority, in addition to a uniform treatment of all applications, there will also be a uniform supervision that those who have received a permit continue to meet the requirements. This will also ensure that competition in the taxi market takes place on a more equal basis. Everyone must comply with the requirements and the risk or likelihood of control will not depend on where in the country a company is housed. In other words, the new framework creates the possibility of fair and equal competition. In relation to prices, greater competition is also being opened up, since the national price ceiling will be at a level that ensures that there will be opportunities both to compete under the ceiling and to provide an economic basis for taxi services throughout the country. Compared to taxi services in rural areas, it will be easy to be a small driving office in a rural area, with a capital charge of only DKK 40,000, and the same DKK 40,000. may be used as capital to obtain a permit for commercial passenger transport. Moreover, these small driving agencies will not be subject to data collection requirements for the first 3 years after the entry into force of the law. I am very pleased with the fact that it has been agreed that more evaluations of the law will be carried out so that we can analyse how the new framework affects the industry. Are there a lot of new players on the field? Is there anything going on with the demand? What is the price level? We will also look in the evaluations separately at the taxi service in rural areas, as we have, as you know, had a special focus on it. Another important element of the evaluations will be to monitor technological developments in control systems and with foreign experience in this field. Developments are extremely strong in this field, and it is a matter of having your finger on the pulse. I would like to conclude by thanking you once again for the positive comments. I look forward to the committee reading in this positive spirit and will, of course, answer the committee's questions as soon as possible so that we can hopefully adopt the bill four weeks before the law comes into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026180818	Thank you, Minister. And there is a brief comment from Mr. Henning Hylllested. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026180824	Yes, of course. I cannot, of course, fail to make a brief comment, since the Minister thinks that I represent a point of view which is true, many years back. We are being turned into what we called some of the Soviet Union at the time, namely the Red Czars. But don't worry about it. I have no objection to drivers becoming hauliers and becoming capitalists. I recognise that we live in a capitalist society, so that is possible. But it is clear that when you have a profession where there is a ceiling on the number of permits, there are some who cannot become hauliers. But I don't mind that there are some who become hauliers if the opportunity is there. They just have to meet some requirements, so we are sure that the profession they run is healthy and good. After all, there is a great responsibility in transporting other people. I do not really know how many people this is really a wish of. I'm sure it is with someone. However, there are also other drivers who are actually very happy to be drivers and just want them to be able to carry out their duties, even in healthy conditions without being exposed to unbearable competition, and who therefore also have to meet certain requirements. In this respect, the essential thing for us in the Enhedslisten is the whole question of collective agreements, which I mentioned in my rapporteur's speech. Can the Minister not give an answer as to why one does not have the option of having a new taxi law cut through and put in place the wordings which are to be put in place and which are, after all, used in the law on the carriage of goods and the law on bus transport? Then we can get the problem out of the world that plagues road transport in general, the bus, freight and taxi industry, and which currently gives rise to what we call wild west modes, in flex traffic.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181018	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181019	Well, I'm gonna have to correct sir. Henning Hylllested, for mr. Henning Hyllested has a problem with drivers becoming hauliers, otherwise Mr. Henning Hyllested is not in favour of a ceiling on how many drivers can be allowed to become hauliers. Well, that's a good thing, and it's a good thing, sir. Henning Hyllested also argued vividly in favour of the competition among the hauliers being too great if there are too many of them. Henning Hylllested. So, sir. Henning Hyllested has something against drivers being given freedom of establishment as hauliers. That's why he wants a ceiling. We are abolishing that now, and that is why Mr. Henning Hyllested against this change of law. But there is, of course, no majority in favour of any view of what should be done about the law that Mr. Henning Hyllested mentions about goods transport and contractual requirements etc. There is a minority in the Folketing who want only one agreement to apply in this area. Then there is one or more parties that want more agreements to apply in this area. And then there are some parties who think that agreements are something that the social partners can do and that, in principle, they should not be included in the legislation at all. So there is no majority in the Folketing to do either one or the other or the third.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181136	Then that's the questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181138	Of course, when precisely this is in the legislation, it is also for the sake of road safety. It has long been recognized that the unhealthy competition that could occur would, in this case, be detrimental to road safety and could have ugly consequences, not only for those who drive buses, lorries and taxis, but also for the poor pedestrians and cyclists, or whoever may be hit. It is true that in this connection it is the Danish People's Party that is the central party, if I may say so. At any rate, I have noted that there is, after all, a majority in favour of the fact that the state of affairs which has arisen since the Supreme Court ruling is unsustainable. I hope the Minister will agree with that. Then it is a question of how to find a new wording. But on the basis of the statements that I have heard for quite a long time, I would say that if, at the same time, you sat down with the industry, if I may say so, DI Transport, 3F's Transport Group, the Christian Trade Union Union, and whoever it is that is big players in this field, you could find wordings that could carry through and find a majority in the Folketing. That's what I'd think. Does the Minister consider this to be completely out of the question in the present situation?
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181259	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181300	The requirement laid down in the collective agreement legislation for lorry drivers, bus drivers, etc. has a historical reason for wanting to ensure road safety and so on. Later, driving-rest-time rules came in and made those demands redundant on the grounds that they had something else, namely driving-rest-time rules. Then they have another reason, as a kind of trade union struggle, and that is also why Enhedslisten is so concerned about it. It has nothing to do with certainty, because it is responsible for other legislation. After all, it's a trade union fight, and sir. Henning Hyllested advocates that it should find its way into the legislation in this one area, although we have a Danish model in which we say in all other areas: agreement is something the social partners take care of; it is not something we write into the legislation. I have also noted that there is a majority wishing to have an agreement requirement in the legislation, but there is no majority in favour of how it should be. And that is why it is a little difficult today to find out which legislation is to be adopted when there is no majority for any of the various proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181425	Thank you, Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. If any of you do not object, this is agreed. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171026181445	There is nothing more to be done in this meeting. And I would like to thank everyone for today's work in the service of the people's regime. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 27 October 2017, at 12.00 pm. 10:00. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
