ParlaMint-DK_20170120100020	The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120100030	Are there any objections to the promotion of these requests? I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120100102	I would point out that the vote on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Thursday 26 January 2017. First of all, Mr President, it is a explanatory statement from the rapporteur for the questioners. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120100133	Thank you. I would like to thank the Prime Minister once again in this session for taking up the debate on a subject which is so much the concern of the Danes in their debates and interviews at the workplace, at the educational institutions and where else they are going. I also sign for the acceptance of many of the demands of the Danish People's Party, which his government has followed up, including, of course, the continuation of border controls, which have helped to curb unbridled immigration and which have been of benefit and joy to us for more than a year now. It is a great turmoil that prevails among the Danes these years, as we as MPs experience when we are on the move, and as I am sure the Prime Minister must also have experienced in his meetings around. One thing, of course, is the practical problems of immigration, and we are discussing these problems on a daily basis, and they will probably also be part of this debate, but the theme that we in DF, as the authors of the question, wanted is the cultural, value-related aspect of immigration, as the text of the question also shows. What are we going to do when we are forced or pressed to change the way of life and behaviour in our own country when we are increasingly addressing ourselves in the interests of Muslim immigrants in particular, and especially in the case of the Islamic neo-Puritanic dreams, which are eating the freedom which was a Danish characteristic? But other surrealist events should also cause alarm bells to ring in the Prime Minister's Office. When a military coup 2,500 km away results in hundreds of children here at home changing school; when a person who is born and raised in this country and finds that the nasty Sharia law takes precedence over the mild and gentle Danish legislation; when a person murders a Jew as a result of a conflict that takes place 4,000 km away; when a person with Danish citizenship joins in the Islamic State, who is at war with Denmark, where he is a Danish citizen; when a person finds out that his daughter has found a boyfriend and he responds by forcefully marrying her with an unknown man from the village 5,000 km away; when a person does not vote for the election of the people, because, as he expresses it, Sharia is not to be replaced by unclean forms of government; yes, in these years we are under pressure, I would say to the Prime Minister, for Danish culture, living and tradition are attacked. This is perhaps the most important discussion we can take here in the Danish Parliament, and I look forward to the Prime Minister's reply and to the subsequent debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120100423	Thank you. Then it's the PM with an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120100432	Thank you. I have been asked to explain the government's value policy with a focus on the challenges arising from immigration, which pushes or forces the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and to correct for the sake of immigrants. This is also an important issue on the basis of the reasons given here, which it has almost become a tradition we are discussing in an annual debate on questions such as this one today. And that is, in fact, only good, because these are important issues. I can fully confirm, as Mr. Søren Espersen also said that it is a theme that captures everyone, and I feel it myself when I get around. Last night I was in Vollsmose, the part of Vollsmose called Bøgeparken, which, unlike other parts of Vollsmose, is difficult to challenge precisely because of some of the conditions Mr. Søren Espersen here has highlighted. It is also a debate that has many feelings and draws threads to the political currents that we see in Europe and in the rest of the Western world these years. That is why it is perhaps also important to remind ourselves and each other that the world we are part of is a world which, since World War II, has seen an enormous increase in prosperity. At no time in the history of the world have so many people felt so well, and this is also true in Denmark. And why is that? Yeah, one of them. because Denmark chose to open up to the world many years ago, making globalisation, trade and international cooperation a strength. We chose to build bridges while others built walls. And that is how we must face the future. We must dare to believe in Denmark's strength and that the values we have rounded up have enough life force for the meeting with the rest of the world, also in troubled times. We must open up Denmark to the well-qualified foreigners who come here with the desire, abilities and appetite to make a positive difference, but in return, and it is equally important to say, because there must be nuances into the debate, we must close off to those who cannot or will not share our fundamental values or who do not contribute to the community. That is why we need a strict, consistent and realistic policy on foreigners that takes care of Denmark first and last. This was particularly needed when we stood here and had the same debate a year ago. At that time, Europe's borders had been broken, Europe had been paralysed, and that is why we put the brakes on, and this was done in close cooperation between the government and the Danish Parliament, especially the Danish People's Party. Over the past 18 months, we have carried out 40 tightenings, and it has worked. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the number of asylum seekers was the lowest in five years. In January last year alone, about 1,600 asylum seekers came to Denmark, this year the provisional figure is below 150. Last year, therefore, we launched the closure of nearly 4,700 places in asylum centres around the country, and towards the summer of this year we will close another 2, 000 places. Of course, this is not only the merit of my party and the former V government, because, as I have indicated, it is very much a good, effective and responsible cooperation here in the Folketing, and I would like to thank you for that. This is also due to the fact that at European level, as time went by, we saw a realism, a realism which took a little time to emerge and which Denmark advocated from the beginning and for which we had to fight for a long time: the Balkans route was closed, the European Union concluded an agreement with Turkey. Does this mean that the problems have been solved? No, it doesn't. Refugees and migrants are still arriving in Europe in rubber boats, the situation in the Middle East is still unstable and difficult to predict, as is the case with Turkey, and the government will therefore continue to pursue a strict, consistent and realistic immigration policy. That is also why, with the 2017 Finance Act together with the Danish People's Party, we introduced a number of further tightenings: an emergency brake so that we can reject asylum seekers at the border if there is a crisis situation that puts Danish borders under pressure; increased police action at asylum centres to maintain calm and order in and around the centres; tighter rules for permanent residence and strengthened efforts to return rejected asylum seekers. Overall, our tightening in the area of foreigners and the decreasing number of asylum seekers have helped to give priority to increased efforts in the neighbourhood in 2016 and 2017 by 1 billion. kr. extra, and in this way we help more people, while at the same time countering new flows of refugees. These are good, coherent responses to a difficult challenge, and the government will continue in this path. Together with our European partners, therefore, we will also work to ensure that the EU's external borders are kept to a maximum; that, rather than this kind of spontaneous asylum application that we see at the EU's external borders, we will have secure facilities in the neighbourhood from which asylum can be sought and, possibly, through a UN quota system, access to Europe to a lesser extent than what we see today, so that we get away from a system that gives priority to asylum seekers who have money and powers and which supports the cynical business model of traffickers. We will implement new rules for family reunification, tighten the requirements of the foreigners who we know are less able to integrate into Denmark. We want to strengthen foreigners' access to public services so that more people are encouraged to support themselves and we want to tighten up the conditions for obtaining Danish citizenship. All of this will help to ease the pressure on Denmark, but also to say that it is important to ease the pressure on the new Danes, whom we have welcomed and who must have a fair chance of becoming part of the community. Hopefully, this will also help to ensure that the debate on foreigners can have a little more nuances quietly than it has had in recent years. Because we are challenged, and I am 100% in agreement with that, but we also need skilled people from other countries to come here and lift up our business, our universities, our cultural opportunities and our welfare. We must look after Denmark, but not by walling ourselves in, but by sensibly shielding us from negative immigration. This brings me to another aspect of this debate, namely the question of integration, where realism is also needed. We are a free country, and it is a Danish value to be a free country where you are allowed to think, believe and live as you want to feel as long as you stay within the framework of the law. It's true. But we cannot live with the emergence of parallel societies in Denmark, areas where Danish law is being repressed, cut off from the rest of Denmark. We must also tear down those walls, otherwise we will abandon those children and young people who are in danger of being isolated from our common society and radicalised by local rabid preachers. Therefore, we are well in the process of implementing the initiatives of last year's agreement on religious ministers, and we will strengthen efforts to combat social control, which limits young people's ability to pursue their dreams. They have dreams, too. Last night I was confirmed in that when I visited Bøgeparken in Vollsmose. I visited Kazim, who has a Somali background and is from Randers, but who has moved to Funen, and who has had difficulty finding work, but has created his own, namely a hairdresser's salon. I also met young boys who were raised in Vollsmose and who have proper dreams. There is Ali who attends Mulles Legate School and who wants to be a policeman; there is Hassan who wants to be an entrepreneur and who has already started, in parallel with his studies, to create his own clothing brand. There are also other fresh young people with other ethnic backgrounds who, as such, want Denmark. We must also bear them in mind in this debate, because they told me about the particular challenges that face them and that help to break other young people; it is, for example, when we have an urban area where relatively few bully the many. That is precisely why it is so important that we hit hard on gangster environments, on radicalised environments. It is to give the others who want Denmark a chance. After Vollsmose I took a trip to the technology school at University of Southern Denmark, where some of the country's best robot experts give free lessons to children and young people who come with a completely different background than the one I experienced in Vollsmose. And it's 10 minutes by car between Vollsmose and the technology school... 10 minutes by car, but it's like being in two different worlds. It's a kind of division we can't live with. We need to get more refugees and descendants of refugees and immigrants out of those ghettos and into the labour market. That is why I am also pleased that in the past year we managed to reach a tripartite agreement on integration with the social partners and a two-party agreement with the municipalities. These are agreements that strengthen the integration work of the municipalities and allow more refugees to enter working communities, namely out there, where you get to know Denmark and where expectations are being raised. For precisely decades of lack of expectations have contributed to the fact that only three out of ten refugees are currently in work after three years in the country. It has been, to put it bluntly, disastrous. The government has set as its goal that every second refugee should be in work after 3 years. We think that is realistic. It will not come of itself, but it will be possible if we continue the course set by the three-party and two-party agreements. As I said at the outset, today's debate is important. It is linked to the political currents and concerns of the West these years. I fully understand the concerns, but I do not share the black-eyed view, and I do not contribute to a frightening picture in which refugee policy, integration, globalisation, international cooperation, change, technology and development are mixed together into a great fear for the future. It is not that simple, and I think the Danes know that too. In fact, a dew-fresh measurement shows that Denmark is the country in the EU where most people are positive about globalisation and that the vast majority of Danes have a positive view of international free trade. It is a view that the government fully shares. It is a view that we must stand guard over and precisely for the reason that we must ensure that Denmark remains an open country for those who can and will, we have a common obligation to strike down those who do not want Denmark, those who really want something quite different. We want an open country for those who want to, a closed country for fanaticism, social control and people who do not want Denmark well. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120101612	Thank you, Prime Minister. Then it is the rapporteur for the questioners, Mr President. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120101625	Thank you to the Prime Minister for his reply and also for the serious approach he has to it. Can I say something about building walls? 37 years ago, in 1980 my English girlfriend and present wife came to my home in Denmark. It took her a week to get a job and a residence and work permit. This could therefore be done before the free movement of workers, I should like to say hello. There were thousands of Britons who worked in Copenhagen then, and lots of Danes who studied at English universities etc. So let's just make it clear. My wife and I spoke the other day about what she had found so special about Denmark when she arrived in 1980 and had so much changed today. She said that the first thing she took note of was open-minded, that is, a country without childhood, a country in which black-eyed Puritans and Puritanism were in short supply. She remembers, for example. our very first trip to the summer beach in Blokhus, where for the first time in her life she experienced how adults and children happily bathed together nakedly and the children seemed to have a naturalness around nakedness. She had experienced the same in the women's dressing room in the swimming pool, which was without curtains, and where everyone was showering together and the little children were running around. It was for my wife, she says, a happy experience. Today, this fresh nudity is becoming a saga just off our shores. On the streets and alleys, many women and even girls are now wearing challenging clothes, as it is called. By the way, it is a terrible expression that smells so much of vinegar-acid puritanicism. But the first thing she experienced in Denmark was free-minded, which in 1980 was the norm and which is now the exception. We accept that even young girls down to the age of 5-6 are forced on half- or full-scale Islamic scarves. We choose to believe in imaginative explanations that the girls feel a tremendous freedom and security by going covert. The part relating to security, I actually believe, because on the radio I have heard young Muslim men explain that they couldn't dream of harassing a girl who was dressed according to Islamic custom, while all other girls who wear goose-eyes wearing challenging clothes, are in a way themselves out of it. It is also understood that the shedding has come about in order not to lead the young men into corruption. It is simply the men, one understands, whom women protect when they wrap themselves up. That's very kind of them. So that means that the problem lies with men, and it is women who solve the problem of men. I've been wondering if maybe it wasn't more fair if the young Muslim men started wearing blinders so they weren't tempted by their ability. Yes, Puritanism, which was believed dead and gone, is back again. We talked then about the fact that in 1980 it had been unthinkable that a preacher who stood and urged people to kill Jews did not end up as a naturalness behind bars. Today he just continues, as if nothing had happened, at the next prayer meeting in the mosque. Since we are about Jews, could anyone imagine in 1980 that it was fatal for a Jew with kipa to walk up Nørrebrogade? No. My wife said that 30 years ago in Denmark she had a good feeling about the world in which our daughters were to grow up. The view was good. There was fair equality, respect and good conditions for maternity and family life combined with work. She said that at that time she would not have thought that we are just as quietly being beaten back to the start, to a reality where women are again not respected, where women are not being shook up and some employees will not respect a female boss. My wife herself has been exposed to this as the head of a young Muslim man who refused to work with her. He was sent there by the municipality. Women are apprehended, groped and yelled at on the street, or when they are out, and considered a piece of meat, even at the workplace and at the study sites. In statistics, rape and violence against women are increasing year by year. In Malmö, it's out of control. 75% of the rapes are committed by persons with non-Swedish origins. In Copenhagen, 68 per cent are committed by non-Danish origins. There are attacks in swimming pools and at festivals, and who doesn't remember New Year's Eve in Cologne. Where is the demand for men to pull themselves together and start behaving properly? And how do we punish them when they don't? The Prime Minister must answer that, just as the Prime Minister may answer whether he considers that immigration to Denmark from Islamic countries has been an enrichment. In many Islamic countries there is a sickly woman's vision and a sickly girl's vision. Out there, unfortunately, the norm is for many men that women cannot be equated with men, especially if women are not Muslims. It is said that unbelieving uncovered women are to be regarded as a kind of prostitute who does not deserve respect and who is sexually available to men. And in the midst of all the misery we have a women's movement in Denmark that has paralysed itself so much in its boundless approach to immigrants and Islam that it cannot make itself carry the absolutely necessary criticism of this puritan, condemning lifestyle. Because of extreme fear of touch and the danger of being labeled racist, there is loud silence. It would have been better if the women's movement, trade union movement, employers, school teachers, kindergarten teachers or other of Denmark's wealth of movements took on this obvious task. Then we wouldn't have had to have this debate. On behalf of the Danish People's Party I shall make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament sees with great concern that the Danish culture decade by decade is being put further under pressure by aliens, especially Islamic cultures, and that a consequent, deeply regrettable, oppressive Puritanism is gaining ground in the country. The Folketing therefore instructs the government to make the necessary changes, in which it can first be done so that it will no longer be possible for public institutions to discriminate against Danes, Danish tradition and Danish culture in favour of other religious and cultural traditions. V 27). I may have to make a small correction in the last one, so that where I said where you can, it is changed to where possible. This is the kind of technical thing the law office has asked me to change. I have herewith done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120102240	Thank you to the rapporteur. The proposal for adoption is part of the further discussions. Then it's mr. Dan Jørgensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120102254	Thank you. And thank you to the Danish People's Party for taking the initiative for this important debate. Since we were founded in 1871, my party, the Social Democratic Party, has fought to ensure equal opportunities and rights for all citizens. We have spent more than 100 years helping to build a truly unique society with free and equal access to education and health, a society in which we deal with the weakest, with a distinct degree of equality, with gender equality, with democracy and freedom of expression, with confidence in each other. These are values that we must safeguard, and unfortunately, for some of these values, they are challenged by globalisation and by the fact that we in Denmark have experienced a great immigration to our country. Fortunately, a great many foreigners who have come to Denmark have become an enrichment for our society. Søren Espersen in his private life; that applies widely. They are integrated, they have work and they are part of Denmark, but unfortunately there are also those who have not become part of our community. That group is too big, and we have to deal with that. However, it is difficult to put on a formal basis what is really Danish, and it is even more difficult to formulate a political response to what can be done to preserve the values that we want to safeguard. Let me give you a few examples. I personally love the Danish approach to the sense of humor • probably not particularly Danish, as there are probably others who have it so that you can make jokes with and make fun of very sensitive things and politically incorrect things. I love our bikes, which we take with all places and lock on with more locks, while we gladly place our stroller completely free in front of a café. I love the Olsen gang, and like the PM, I love the Matador too. I love our flags, and I love that we hoist it all the time, at all times. Even the jante law has positive elements, that we are not so inclined to take credit for things ourselves, but always emphasizes team effort. All these things are Danish trust in each other, the feeling of belonging together, and that we trust each other are things that are worth protecting. But what really needs to be done to safeguard those values? I think you have to do a lot of things. One of the most important things in relation to the Danish community is our common frame of reference, that is, knowing our history, knowing our culture, and of course also the fact that we speak the same language. However, if I have to point out one thing that can be done about politically, that is to say, for which we can take responsibility in this Chamber, it is that people get to work. In Denmark we make demands on everyone: you have to contribute to society and everyone has to do what they can. It is also an important Danish value. For the whole requirement for us to have a welfare society is that we have both rights and obligations. Therefore, our starting point is that if you come to Denmark, you have to work from day one. Immigrants should not be made clients, they should not be on cash benefits, but rather contribute to the Danish society for society's sake and for their own sake. Having a job creates identity, it gives self-esteem, and people become happier. And here's an important fight. It is a battle that is about something as fundamental as women's right to take an education and have a job that women's right to leave home and decide on their own lives. Unfortunately, in today's Denmark, we have old-fashioned patriarchal environments where women are subordinate to men, where women are not allowed to leave home and where women are forced to cover themselves with cultures where the woman's place is at home. That is unacceptable. Unfortunately, the figures speak their own clear language. Where three out of four Danish women are at work, only one in four Somali women in Denmark are at work. There's in this country about... 25,000 people who have received cash benefits for more than 10 years, and one in four of them is an immigrant woman with a non-Western background. We have to do something about that. I find it interesting that when the City of Odense decides to go after the medical statements of registered cash aid recipients, nine out of ten non-western immigrant women are suddenly declared ready for work. We must learn from that. We Social Democrats believe that it is crucial that we do not wrap immigrant women into cotton wool, but that we meet them and their families with clear demands and expectations that they leave home and become part of Danish society, so that we send a very clear signal that they must start an education that can give them a wider network and more opportunities in life; that we tell them that work and education is the way to break the patterns and free themselves from the outdated standards. That is why we propose to take the training instructions for young people included in the cash aid reform and extend it to adult immigrant women who have not completed primary school or completed vocational training. The proposal will mean that in future these women will be met with clear demands and expectations that they will have to find a training that is realistic and relevant, that they will have to apply for it and that they will have to complete it. And if they don't, it has a consequence. It's not the same as everyone being a teacher or a lawyer. It can be a hygiene course, so you can help in a restaurant, or it can be basic reading and writing skills that you acquire. The crucial thing is to get out of the apartment, out of the home and create opportunities in life. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to make the following points: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that when you come to Denmark, you will have the right to freedom, democracy and equality. On the other hand, we also have a responsibility to participate in and contribute to the preservation of the free and open society that we have built up over generations. Fortunately, there are many new Danes who are integrated and a valuable part of Denmark. But we must be true that, unfortunately, there are still too many people who are not at work who do not speak the language or who do not share our fundamental values. We have to do that. On this basis, the Folketing instructs the government to examine the possibility of introducing a training order for adult immigrant women on cash benefits which have not completed primary school or completed vocational training. • V 28).
ParlaMint-DK_20170120102942	Thank you. This proposal for adoption is also part of the further discussions. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti, for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120102950	First of all, on education, I would like to say that education is quite excellent, but I also lack a recognition from the Social Democrat rapporteur that it does not necessarily have anything to do with radicalisation. One can be incredibly smart and yet be incredibly radicalized. I think it is more important as a starting point to have a high level of education. I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur recognises that there are fundamental elements in Islam that make living in Danish society a greater challenge than if you came with a different religious background or have a different religious background.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103023	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103025	To begin with, it is clear that we have seen examples of radicalised people, even though they have had high education and employment and all sorts of other things, but I would now like to say on the bottom line that if we are to combat radicalisation, it is actually quite important that we focus on integration. I believe that there is a less risk of a person being radicalised if he or she feels that he or she is part of society, contributes to society, feels that he or she is getting something back, and that is why we believe that getting to work is so important. Then it is asked about the risk, if you are an Islamist and come to the country, compared to other religions. I believe that there are probably more radicalist Islamists than radicalized individuals with a different religious conviction in Denmark right now. In principle, however, I have the view that extreme people, regardless of which religion they are extreme in, must be careful, and we must try to contain that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103132	Sir. Søren Espersen, go ahead.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103134	It is as if the rapporteur finds it very difficult to get over his lips, that there are particular challenges. It says everything today, there is no such thing as problems with integration when it comes to Muslims. It is very difficult for the rapporteur to say that, but then I think we should also point to some other religious groups, Buddhists, Hinduists, Jews, etc., what it should be. Point to them and tell them that there are problems here too. I would argue that there isn't. Can't we call things by their real name? One of the first things to solve is to recognize the problem. Social democracy will not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103217	It is possible that Mr. Søren Espersen interprets it the way he does, but if Mr. Søren Espersen had listened to my speech, he would have heard that I was pointing out major problems, such as: is about religion, but it is also about culture. Of course, when women are oppressed and sometimes justified in a religious book, this is unacceptable. I think maybe that, sir. Søren Espersen wants me to, is just to conclude that Islam is necessarily a huge problem and that if you are a Muslim, you are pr. definition of a problem, but I will not. Well, Breivik, as far as I know, isn't Muslim, but I think he's a huge problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103258	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103303	Thank you. Now I am really, really glad that the rapporteur spoke a lot about women in his paper, in other words how we should ensure that women did not involuntarily go home in what is like a parallel society and that women should not be wrapped up in cotton wool. And then I just want to ask a very simple question and hear the rapporteur's opinion that young girls in primary school are being wrapped in scarves. How does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103331	The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103332	It is, of course, a debate that we have taken several times in this Chamber, including in this House. at the request of the author's party. However, I would like to repeat that in my party we think that forcing children or in other ways influencing children to wear a scarf is a bad idea. We think that you are in danger of stigmatizing yourself; we think that you reflect some wrong values. So we call for that not to be done. But if there is implicit in the question whether to ban scarves, then we say no, because it would be too much to interfere with the personal freedom for it to be justified.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103413	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103414	I'm sorry to hear that, because it's one of these cultural and religious peculiarities we're fighting with. And there we think that one solution would be to go in and make legislation about it. We also hear from those who are dealing with safehouses and all these young girls who are now flocking to it that some of these religious peculiarities are helping to keep the girls in this medieval picture. No matter how high an education these girls get for the only thing they can actually do is get out and train themselves, then they have to go back home and not participate in society. So will the rapporteur's party not recognise that all these religious peculiarities that we have, especially with regard to girls, help to maintain them in the parallel society?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103501	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103502	I think that if a young girl is oppressed by her own family, it may well be that as a society one could decide that it is then forbidden for this young girl to wear a scarf when she is in public or in public school. But that wouldn't change the basic structure of that girl's family. It would just change the expression of how she was then suppressed. That's why we have to go somewhere else. And peace be with the symbolic political proposals that come from DF, but it would be nice if you would try to tackle some of what we know would work, namely getting these people into work, getting them into society and being part of Danish society every day. It could make a difference, rather than symbol politics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103550	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103554	Thank you. It was simply because the rapporteur began his excellent speech by talking about the fact that we had to have immigrants working from day one. We fully agree with that, but the problem is that a number of people who come here cannot and are forbidden to work from day one: all those who seek asylum. Is this something on which the rapporteur is bleeding? Can we make more demands and make it possible for people who are in Denmark, also in the asylum phase, to contribute the labour they can now?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103639	I do not know what the questioner means by, whether the rapporteur is bleeding up. I think the wording was because I do not think we should follow our policy very much in order to know that our position is that people should work as quickly as possible and that any bureaucratic or other barriers that may be involved are something we would like to help prevent. We went to elections at the last parliamentary election on a parole called: If you come to Denmark, you will have to work. So that's what you're supposed to do from day one. So, yes, we are happy to contribute to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103711	Mrs. Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103713	Excellent. Should we not then make proposals to allow working from the first day when you come to Denmark? I hope the Socialists will be involved in this. Because I haven't seen that before.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103724	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103725	I'm a little unappreciated about that. Perhaps this is because the rapporteur himself was not involved in the negotiations in which we were actively involved and where we helped to tighten up the immigration policy in Denmark, and one of the things that we got through as a party and which the government had actually proposed should be abolished was that people should be allowed to work outside the asylum centres. The government had suggested that you should not be allowed to do so. We said that if we're gonna be in this deal, we're gonna insist on it, and we got through that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103755	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103759	Thank you. If you come to Denmark, you have to work. Those are good words. I would say that it is a little difficult when you see and hear on TV 2's mosques behind the veil that the Imams say that women should not work. So say the men of families of other ethnic origin. Now that we are talking about how many people are at work, it is currently the case that 84 per cent. of the married couples who are not in work are of other ethnic origin. A study has been carried out over the last 2 years, i.e. in 2014 and 2015, of refugees and immigrants who have arrived in 2013 on how many of them came into work. That was 16%. So that fits with the 84 percent, you might say. The rapporteur says that we must work from day one. How in the world are we supposed to be able to work from day one with the figures we see?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103905	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120103907	This is an area in which the Danish People's Party and my own party differ from each other. After all, we believe that work is the most important thing, and we believe that we must make an effort to integrate people, even people who may have to return to the countries from which they come. It's better both for them and for us that they work while they're here. After all, the Danish People's Party is vertically opposed to this, so that is where we disagree. How is that supposed to be done? There are no easy solutions. But one of the first things we need to do is to ensure that people are then declared ready for work, ready for work, and there we can see, fortunately, that some of the things we have also supported and that the government got through in the tripartite agreement are actually starting to work. But far too great a difference remains between how it is administered in the municipalities, and there are some municipalities where there is a very, very high percentage, which are declared job preparation, and there are other municipalities where the proportion is very, very low. And although there will be a natural variation, there is no doubt that these figures cover the fact that the problem is simply approached differently. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104009	Thank you. Then there is one more comment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104013	Then I just want to ask you a question, sir. Dan Jørgensen said that if they didn't get to work, consequences would have to be introduced. But for example... What are the consequences?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104028	The specific proposal was that there would be no cash assistance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104032	Then it's mr. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104036	Thank you for that, and thank you to Mr. Simpson. Dan Jørgensen for an excellent rapporteur speech. I should just like to ask the following question from Mrs Carsten Nielsen, who went on to ask whether, as an asylum seeker in Denmark, one should be able to work from the first day: we fully share the view that the best way to integrate into our lovely country is to enter the labour market and meet some of the exciting people who are out there and become part of it. But is it from the first day of asylum-seekers that they should be able to do so?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104109	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104111	Yes, sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen. - (DA) Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. That is fantastic if that is the case. I just remember a lot of hours at a negotiating table where I had to fight for people living in an asylum centre to be allowed to work, but if you have changed your mind about it on the left side, then it is really good. Then it is clear that this cannot be done today for people who have not been granted asylum as asylum seekers. I think that is one of the things we should change. Will it be easy, is there a problem in that? No, it will not, and yes, there will be, but we should do something about that, especially since the government has not lived up to the promise it had to make to reduce the processing time. It may be that the questioner will just remind us how long the processing times are now and remind us what the government has promised it will do about it, because that is a huge problem. And the longer the processing time, the greater the need, of course, for those people to have something to do. You risk destroying people who sit and look into a wall in these many, many months.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104214	Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104216	If it's possible to put aside some of that polemic style, I'm actually asking for an answer and not just to be lectured. We agree that integration is best achieved through the labour market. And let us now start from what we agree with. What I just hear from the Socialists, who are new to me, is that it is believed that asylum seekers should be able to work from the first day in Denmark. What I am nervous about in that optics is that you then seek asylum in Denmark only with the aim of being allowed to enter the Danish labour market. Does the rapporteur see a problem in that?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104255	It is possible that some will do so. I would now like to say that transporting oneself from Afghanistan or Iraq or Syria to Denmark to get a job during the months when one can then get a job until one is then rejected, I do not know if it is something that will encourage and give significantly more traffic, but there is, of course, a fairly easy solution to that. And I am sorry if the questioner thinks it is polemical, but that is actually quite frankly meant. I would like an answer to this question: what will be done to bring down the processing time? Because then that problem will also be considerably smaller. We surely agree that it is a huge problem that people should sit so long and wait for their decision, including for Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104339	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104342	Thank you. I think that this debate has quickly taken a turn in dealing with employment and how fast you should be in employment • whether it should be day one, two or five, or how much it is now. I think it's derailing this a little bit. This is about the values we live in everyday life. I would like to draw the debate on something that I know the rapporteur knows about, partly from his time in the European Union, but also as Minister for Food, namely the issue of halal traditions, halal food, in short. Unless I remember completely wrong the concept of halal was virtually unknown 30 years ago, no one knew anything about it. Of course, there were immigrant groups who wanted this kind of food, but for the ordinary Dane it wasn't something that was talked about. Since then, one has happened, as I see it, in the direction that Halal is not only something that is of course very, very well known, but that it has actually become more or less widespread throughout society, so that today it is almost impossible to avoid it. This is what I think this debate on value ought to be based on, namely that there has been a shift in values. To take this with the halal food: does the rapporteur not think that it is a problem of value that where Halal was once reserved for the few, in practice it is impossible to avoid?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104503	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104505	I must start by saying that when the rapporteur regrets that this has come to be about employment, I have to say that I disagree with the fact that this is about employment. This is a debate about Danish values, and for my party it is one of the most Danish, that is, right and duty. It is important for people's own sake because you are part of society and when you have a job, it gives identity, but of course also for society's sake. If we are to have a welfare state, it requires everyone to contribute. As far as halal is concerned, I think the questioner knows that it was actually in my time, but it was not my proposal, as Minister for Food, that we had legislation implemented in Denmark that ensures that if you want to halal-slaughter animals, it should be done in the way that the animal has been drugged. If that is the case, if the animal is drugged first, there are no animal welfare consequences, and when there are no animal welfare consequences, I see no problem at all.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104554	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104557	Well, then we are at the heart of the matter. If the starting point is that there is no animal welfare problem in the halal area, and this is a discussion that can be taken into account, the rapporteur sees no problem in the fact that halal food and halal goods are now extended to fill a very, very large part of the market and that it is almost impossible to avoid it. For it is true that in the case of halal products bearing the halal mark, one can be sure that it is actually halal-slaughtered and that halal taxes have been paid, but for a large part of the meat which is not labelled, it is true that it is halal-slaughtered anyway. This is actually a very good example of some sort of slippage, where a religious tradition from a foreign culture has rushed in and now fills the Danish space.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104644	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104646	I just don't think so. I have to say, personally, I don't care if someone asked about it. The only thing I care about on this issue is animal welfare, and I have just explained why it is not a problem. Here we are talking about the broad lines of how we can secure Danish values and a proper, coherent society, and we are some who are trying to argue that such things as the employment rate, and that we must combat the oppression of women etc., are quite important, and then the Danish People's Party says that we have completely misunderstood that it is really about words that are said when an animal is slaughtered, moreover after it has been drugged. There we just have different priorities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104726	Thank you to the rapporteur. No one else has asked for brief comments. Then it's the next rapporteur, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120104739	Thank you for that, President. Thank you for the floor and thank you to the authors for raising this question once again. The debate on the challenges arising from immigration in Denmark continues to be topical, and it is also a subject that fills quite a lot for many Danes, and therefore it is good that we are allowed to debate it in this Chamber. Let me start by saying 'cause I think it's important that Denmark is a small, lovely and open country, and it takes its balance to maintain the last two, among other things. Because of the first, because they depend on each other. Denmark is an open country. Over the past 1,000 years, we have made a living trading with the world around us, and it has founded our prosperity. We have a curiosity and we have an openness to the world on which we are deeply dependent. Denmark is a lovely country. There are some who believe that Denmark is the best Danish invention. I believe that Denmark is the best country in the world to live in. We are free-minded, we are justified trusting, we have a high level of equality and we have the opportunity to seek happiness better than any other people around the world. By and large, we have the freedom to live our lives as we please, as long as we do not thereby limit each other's opportunities to do the same. That is why there are many people in the world who want to live in our country either because they are on the run or because they want to give their children better opportunities than they have had themselves, and that is quite understandable. We would probably do the same ourselves if we were in their situation. But Denmark is also a small country, and although we have a strong culture, and although we are a strong tribe, we must take good care of our country, so that it remains nice and open. Because not all people want to come here who want to be part of our country. Some will also challenge our openness and change our society. We must not put up with that, it is unacceptable and we must fight against it. But it should not be fear that controls us, because then we lose our openness and then we lose our confidence. Then we can sit here in Denmark walled up about ourselves and be anxious in a country that is still away small, but which is less lovely and less open than it is today. We must always find the balance that ensures that we take care of ourselves. We need to be open, but we shouldn't be naive. Nor should we live with a basic assumption that everyone who comes to Denmark intends to change or harm our country. We must never forget how dependent we are on the world that surrounds us. We rely on skilled people to come to Denmark and contribute to our society. We are also dependent on our participation in international cooperation, and we are dependent on participating in globalisation. Because we have also become the country we are today because we have been open, curious and receptive to other cultures. Because even if we have a nice country, it might be a bit arrogant to assume that we have chosen 5.5 million people in all cases just the best way to do everything. It has been a year since we last had this debate in Parliament, and many things have changed since then. The challenges we discussed in the last debate have been addressed. We have carried out a number of tightenings in the field of foreigners, which have contributed to a decline in the number of asylum seekers in Denmark. This has meant that the pressure on Denmark has been relieved, and we have therefore had the opportunity to help more people in the neighbourhood, and that is good, because this is still badly needed. But it does not solve the challenges alone. At home in Denmark we must concentrate on successful integration. We must ensure that those who come to Denmark and have to live here are properly welcomed and quickly feel as part of the community. We must give them and their children the opportunity to get Denmark under the skin so that we minimise the risk that they will become part of or create parallel societies themselves. And we must acknowledge that we have not been good enough. I see it as an important Danish value that we are showing each other consideration, but for many years the Danish integration effort has been wrapped in a number of misunderstood considerations, consideration that has been taken in the best sense, even though, in retrospect, they have done us all a disservice, consideration that has been taken from a consideration that all the values and norms set of the world are as good as the Danish ones. And maybe some of them are, just not in Denmark. Because by accepting values and standards that are very far from democracy, liberalism, equality and freedom, we have in fact made it more difficult for immigrants to get Denmark under their skin. Of course, one must be allowed to hold on to one's cultural background and religious traditions, and that spaciousness also lies in the Danish liberalism. But this must be done within the framework of the values on which Denmark is built. Otherwise, you will never be part of Danish society. Because, as I said before, we must all have the freedom to live our lives as we please, as long as we do not thereby limit each other's opportunities to do the same. We must insist that the standards and values that we have in Denmark and that have been built up through generations before us are established. We must invite the people who come to Denmark from outside to help protect those standards and values, and we must expect them. For Denmark, as the Prime Minister said, must remain an open country for those who can and will, and closed to those who do not want Denmark and the Danish values well, so that in the future we can also be a small, lovely and open country. Thank you for the floor, and I apologise for the overrun.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105330	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105335	Thank you. And thank you, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen for the speech. I would like to ask: how open should Denmark be in the view of the Left? Will anyone who can support himself be welcome in Denmark? Is that okay? After all, there are a lot of people out there in the big world who can support themselves, so you can assume that immigration will then rise relatively dramatically, and it is about 70,000 to 80,000 people a year who are granted a residence permit. So where does the Left really go? How much immigration can Denmark contain? How open should Denmark be? That's the first thing I want to ask. The second is about the discussion we had last Friday about a ban on minareter. • A proposal put forward by the Danish People's Party. Here the Minister for Integration said that the government wants to do away with Islamic symbols that help to divide Denmark. And I would like to ask how the government and the Left intend to do away with these Islamic symbols, which I understand we agree on divides Denmark and the Danes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105430	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105432	As far as the latter is concerned, questions that are addressed to the government must be addressed to the government. I am simply not a part of that; I represent the Left. As far as the first question is concerned, i.e. how open Denmark should be, I would say that you cannot put a figure on it. What I think is important here is to say that we should be an open country for those who can and will Denmark, because we need them. We have had this for generations and there are plenty of talented people who have come here and have contributed constructively to our society. Where we have to turn our heels and backs up is in relation to the people who do not want Denmark. And then we have to meet the people who come here with demands. And that's why I say in such a moment of self-acknowledgment that we just haven't been good enough for that we haven't been good enough for that in the past 40 years, maybe 50 years. Well, we've met this with a misunderstood consideration, and we have to do away with that. But we also need to be a society that welcomes the people we need. We also need qualified labour in some areas, which we must accept with open arms.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105536	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105539	Thank you. Well, somewhere there's gotta be a limit, and I'd like to know where it is. It is good that the number of asylum seekers has fallen; it is really, really good. We have taken joint initiatives which have, of course, taken things in the right direction, but the number of asylum seekers is still high and total immigration is also very, very violent. Therefore, it would be nice to hear whether the Left believes that an immigration of 70 000 to 80 000 people a year is an immigration of an appropriate size. And next to that, there are probably 100,000 people getting a visa for Denmark, and on top of that there is illegal immigration. Or should immigration be greater if it were to be left, or is there perhaps a need for immigration to be a little less? And could the rapporteur not reply to whether it is the policy of the Left that people want to do away with Islamic symbols in public space and, if that is the policy of the Left, how do they want to do away with it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105622	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105625	Let me take the first one. I understand that it will be easier if we can just set limits and say so, and not anymore, and that it will be so and so many. But that depends very heavily on how much integration you are and how you accept this society. And even if we can have our teases with the Swedes, it is anything else equally easier to integrate a Swede into Denmark than it is to integrate one from the Central African Republic, because these are very different communities we come from. So I am not going to put a figure on it, because I think that would be irresponsible. However, my message is that the people who come here, who want to work as we need and whom we ourselves want, must also accept properly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105716	Thank you. Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105719	Thank you and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. I'm also gonna stick to that with the misunderstood considerations. I would like to know how the Left and the rapporteur feel about this, Mr President. Martin Henriksen said whether to do away with scarves in primary school, to do away with separate opening hours in the swimming pool for men and women, to do away with the fact that some people do not want to shake hands, and to stop women from being allowed to enter the labour market. How far is the Left willing to go in terms of ending those misunderstood concerns that do not promote integration?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105758	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105800	I am not sure that legislation is always the best way to solve those problems. For as Mr. Søren Espersen said before, you can't say that anything is a problem, but I think this is a problem. I think that scarves, niqabber and burkas are an expression of a view of women, which I do not share so much. Sir. Søren Espersen used a picture before and said that women simply want to be covered to protect men. I think this is a completely crazy way of looking at both women and men. I feel extremely offended on behalf of my sex. So would I if I were a woman. We're gonna have to end this. That's where we're gonna do everything we can. I just don't think it's a legislative task to say to people: you have to wear this, and you can't wear this. For there is therefore also a personal freedom in that we can dress as we please. Then there's this thing about swimming and gender-separated swimming. I think it's silly and Mr. Søren Espersen also about before, i.e. this free mind that we have in Denmark to set aside the free mind and say that there is something dangerous, there is something immoral that is somewhat offensive in that boys and girls can go to the swimming pool together. I think that is wrong. I just do not think that we should interfere here in municipal self-government. Because it is a debate that is also taking place in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105926	Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120105928	Yes, but now we're talking about children down to 8-10 years of age and their free will. We're gonna be a little blue-eyed if we think that an 8-year-old girl like that voluntarily without being influenced by her family wearing a scarf like that. So we could start there and then say that when you were 18 years old and old, you could decide for yourself and then not be allowed to do it as a child. Because we maintain women in a parallel society. In other words, they can participate in anything that we have done special things for, out in the parallel society. They can participate in homework, they can participate in girls' leisure clubs and anything else. There we help the family to keep them in that pattern, because then they are not forced to come out and participate in activities out there where all sorts of others do. How does the rapporteur view this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110017	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110019	In the last points mentioned by the rapporteur, I think we are actually very much in agreement, because that is precisely what I mean by misunderstood considerations where we say: well, we have to ensure that young people become part of society, and that is why we should better adapt to the conditions that are in line with the culture that they have with them. I think that is a misguided consideration and that is what I mean by a disservice. It may well be that you get into an association life, but you get a completely wrong picture of what that association life is; you get a completely wrong picture of what liberalism is and what voluntary communities are in Denmark. I simply do not think we can be familiar with this. However, from a legislative point of view, I do not think that it is the legislators who should go in and say: that is how we should dress, and that is not how we should dress.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110107	Thank you. Then it's mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110111	Thank you. Sir. Mr Ellemann-Jensen spoke to Mr Ellemann-Jensen. Martin Henriksen, you had to talk to the government about that. I think that's a weird way to answer. So, it is the Left's political rapporteur who is here and we are talking about a Left Minister. There must be some kind of communication in the Left. I have read something about the fact that things are not always going well, but I would ask you to correct that, because it makes things easier. May I say that there is a word I have heard, Mr President. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen to say, but also the Minister for Integration. Almost every other morning, when you open morning television, she stands on some very cold street and says that you will not accept that: we will not accept that. That's her normal expression, and sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen also uses it here. What does that mean? What does it mean to say that this will not be accepted?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110200	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110205	As for the first, as Mr. Søren Espersen mentioned, I would say that when I replied as I did, it was because Mr. Martin Henriksen specifically asked about the government: what will the government do? And I'm just not the right person to ask that. We have separated the legislative and executive powers in this country. This whole thing about what we're gonna put up with, and we're not gonna put up with, are some of the things that we put together with, among other things, last spring. The Danish People's Party to find solutions to that, because it is not enough just to say that we will not accept it. And there we have made a large number of restrictions in areas such as family reunification, income principles, welfare benefits, citizenship, publishers, broadcasting, tolerated residence, etc. After all, all these tightenings are helping to send a very strong signal of what is acceptable and what is not acceptable. We have often discussed this here in the house with tolerance, what is tolerable and for whom it should be tolerable. It is we who, as a society, tolerate that some people we are certainly not interested in are here anyway. But it does not necessarily have to be insanely tolerable for them. This is one of the areas where we can very clearly take action and show that this is going too far.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110317	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110321	But when I say that, it is because exactly a year ago, when we had a similar debate, that we might want once a year, by the way, because I think it is an important debate to continue the debate, it was, of course, under the impression of what had happened in the Grimmøjmoskeen in Aarhus, after these hidden recordings had come from TV 2. And I have to say, there was an uproar in the whole country over what you saw. However, it has to be said that not one of the people who sat and called for crime sat and brought the most monstrous things that are against everything in the Danish criminal law that has been accused or accused or questioned about anything. The police haven't done it on their own, and the government hasn't taken the initiative. So I have to say: when you say that you will not accept that, then I demand that there is more substance in it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110414	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110419	I understand that, and I agree with that. That is why we have taken the measures that we have, among other things. in collaboration with the Danish People's Party. That is why we have had to look at the rules of religious preaching, namely that one is in an educational relationship with one's congregation, and what it is then for some things to say. Is crime to be encouraged here? This is something we have worked very hard on as Mr. Martin Henriksen has also been a very, very large contributor to the debate and where we have changed the rules. But we cannot, of course, legislate retroactively and say: what you said last week, dear friend, is now illegal, and now we must come after you. Well, that's not how a rule of law works.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110458	Thank you. Then it's mr. Jan Erik Messmann, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110506	We know that not as many refugees and migrants arrived in Denmark in 2016 as they arrived in 2015. And that is clear because everyone is watching the web and can find out where it is easy to get in and how well you are in those countries. Many Muslim countries have no refugees at all because they simply do not want them. You must know that nearly 100,000 people are sitting in southern Italy and Greece waiting to move forward, and we know that there are millions in Africa who want to come up here. We also know that many organisations are now sailing around the Mediterranean to pick up refugees off the coast of Libya and sail them over so that nothing happens to them, and that is a major problem. Some of this is, of course, limited by the fact that we have a border, that we have closed the border, but on a temporary basis, but Mr. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, rapporteur. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110601	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110606	No, I don't think so. I agree that many of the measures that Mr. Jan Erik Messmann also mentions here, has had an effect. That is why we have done so, also in cooperation with the Danish People's Party. I also fully agree that the temporary border controls that have been introduced have been so necessary. It has also had an effect, and the communication that now it is here has had an effect. However, I also believe that when Europe's external borders are managed at some point, it gives us some advantages to be part of Schengen cooperation • that we can share the register information that is part of Schengen cooperation, that we can benefit from the benefits that free movement brings with it • in relation to the need for us to have the fixed border controls reinstated. The prerequisite for that is that the external borders are under control and, as Mr. Jan Erik Messmann very clearly gets it outlined: there is no such thing now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110701	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110712	Thank you. I have noticed that in a number of debates about values and minarets and burkas and scarves, the rapporteur's party and the rapporteur themselves have the point of saying that some others have to deal with the fact that it must be the autonomy of the municipalities that we, as legislators, do not want to interfere with that. And then there is a tone of still, because as things stand right now, we can control it, and there again some others have to take care of it. However, there is such a tone that the rapporteur's party might perhaps want to touch at some point if it really gets serious. And then I wonder: can we ever imagine a situation in which the rapporteur thinks it is time to legislate? It is not a polemical question, but I simply cannot understand where exactly the limit goes for what some other municipalities, for example, have to do and for the rapporteur's party to say: we are now drawing a line in the sand, we are not going to put up with yes, it is not going to be burkas, minarets or scarves, but something or other. Can the rapporteur give an example of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110812	I certainly do not regard the issue as polemical. I can easily understand it, and some of what I have experienced myself is that there are some things that I would have thought ten years ago, perhaps even five years ago, that this was certainly not something that we should legislate on in Denmark and that we have legislated on in the last year. And I thought it was a very good idea that we did it, because the world is changing, and the challenges that face Denmark also change. What I am opposed to is that we resort to legislation as the first tool, that every time we face a problem, we say: we have to solve this with legislation. I do not think Denmark needs any more legislation. We may need better regulation sometimes, but more laws, more announcements are not what this country needs. But it is clear that the need will change as the world looks different. Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen asks for a specific area, and I would say that if one had mentioned the laws and the changes we made to religious preachers, to me five years ago, I would not have had the imagination to imagine it was necessary.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110919	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110920	Thank you for an actually excellent answer. But somewhere else the rapporteur must also admit that this is an area where we have been in and legislated once things have gone wrong, and perhaps it would have been wise if we had been foresightful and intervened at an earlier stage, so that instead of having to solve a problem through legislation, a problem was actually prevented. What is the rapporteur's view?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120110946	I think it's a balancing act. Everything is much clearer in the unbearable clarity of hindsight, that is clear, but if we are to anticipate all the possible challenges and problems we can face as a society and legislate against them all, we will simply end up in a society that I really do not want to be a part of. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111012	Thank you. So there are no further comments to the rapporteur. Then it is the next rapporteur, Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111022	This is not the first time that the Danish People's Party has called this debate. I will begin immediately, as I started with last year, that Denmark is a country where freedoms and democracy work better than most of the world's, and we have reason to be proud of this, because neither democracy nor freedoms have come of themselves. There are hardly any values that are exclusively Danish, but in Denmark we and perhaps especially the generations before us have fought for the freedoms which, among other things, we have fought for. is reflected in our constitution. I am thinking in particular of freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of religion. We have fought for the values expressed in the European Convention on Human Rights, a convention which we have both endorsed and indeed incorporated into Danish law. This is among other things. The right to a fair trial is the prohibition of discrimination, it is the right to family life which is reflected in the rights for which the trade union movement, the Social Democratic Party and the Left have fought for more than 150 years, the right to a living wage, the right to strike, the right to organise themselves, and for generations both here in Denmark and internationally have been fought to ensure that men and women have the same rights and equal conditions. There is some way to go, but we have come a long way. As I said, all these values are not values that we in Denmark can patent and fortunately for it. I think it is a good thing that there are many places in the world where democracy and freedoms, women and men's equality as fundamental rights are celebrated as the foundation, but these are values that we can be proud of. Democracy, equality, equality, freedoms are, after all, some of the values that the Enhedslisten struggles every day not only to maintain but to strengthen. There is no doubt that there are ethnic minority environments in Denmark which are not characterised by these values, for example. women are considered to be less valuable than men, where women are far from enjoying the same freedom as men. I am not just thinking of the extremist environments that we used much of this debate to discuss last year, for example. the environment around the Grimhøjmosque. I'm not just thinking about those environments. No, for example. relatively widespread that women cannot get a so-called Islamic divorce. The fact that there are women in Denmark who have no right to control their lives is a problem. It is not just a challenge; it is obviously a problem that needs to be taken seriously. Information is needed, mediation is needed, prevention is needed and there is a need to ensure that those women who actually need help, who seek protection, who are looking for help, also receive the protection, the help they need. For years I think there has been a lot of talk about this group, but I do not think that much has been done. I think that there are many people who have, as it were, been led up or told how important it was for them to fight for the equality and emancipation of these minority women, but at the same time we have seen women's crisis centres shouting over and over again: we need more seats in the women's crisis centres; we need more seats in the so-called safe houses; we need more housing for integration so that we can actually do something about these women. Something's starting to happen, and I think that's good. Something has started to happen all the way politically, so all the parties have started to do something in this area. But I think more is needed. I think, above all, that more prevention is needed. In addition, I must say that I am very concerned about the immigration policy being pursued right now. I am very concerned about those poverty benefits, among others. the so-called integration grant, i.e. the low level of cash aid, which is what refugees who come here receive. I am concerned because I am convinced that it creates isolation, i.e. that there are some people who are excluded from society, because in a Danish context they live in poverty or at least find it extremely difficult to do the same as all other people in Denmark. They find it difficult to let their children take part in the same activities as other children. We saw in the '00s when the so-called start-up aid was made, how the number of children who grew up in poverty exploded, and it was this group in particular. I certainly do not think that this is a good starting point for integration. I do not think this is the way to combat parallel societies on the contrary. In fact, I believe that the exclusion that this entails stands in the way of integration. The other day we stood here in Parliament and discussed another subject which the Danish People's Party had raised, namely the ban on minarets, these towers, which are especially seen on mosques. The party wanted to ban these minarets, and the Danish People's Party wrote in their comments on the proposal that minareter That phrase makes no sense to me, because there are some 300,000 citizens in Denmark who are Muslims and about two thirds of them are Danish citizens. One can easily be both Dane and Muslim. When we talk about fundamental Danish values, which are somehow the main theme of this debate, I would say that for me freedom of religion is indeed a fundamental Danish value, and it is something to be proud that one is free to choose what one wants to believe in, or whether one like me will not believe in a religion, just as it is a fundamental Danish value for me that we do not discriminate against people on the basis of their religion. I think the proposal made by the Danish People's Party was an expression of this. Then I would like to read out a proposal for adoption on behalf of the Enhedslisten, Alternativet, Radical Left and SF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that an immigration policy must be pursued so that the integration task can be handled and no parallel societies arise. All citizens in Denmark must respect freedoms, gender equality and democratic principles as enshrined in law. The Folketing also notes that the government and the Folketing must work to establish communities that underpin democratic values as an alternative to the anti-democratic and extremist environments that try to undermine democracy. • V 29).
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111657	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, first from Mr. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111704	I'm sorry to say that I thought it was a non-negotiation speech. Normally I listen with great interest to what Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says, but here I stopped listening at some point; it is never good for the person who wrote the speech. Now we stay with the women's movement. So, I think it has failed, and I would like to ask Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen to comment on that. Unfortunately, I am old enough to remember back to the 1960s and 1970s, when the women's movement was crying in front of something called the housewife associations, which had such useful work on the program, about how to cut a pig and something like that because they thought it was oppressive to the women who came in there. I don't see any women's movements standing in front of mosques with banners and yelling. Nothing's gonna happen! The women's movement could have worked to solve this problem, but hasn't lifted a finger. That is why we are here today. Does Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen not agree that the women's movement has gone very wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111805	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111807	I would like to start by saying that I would almost have been worried if Mr. Søren Espersen for a speech in the Assembly Hall, which is about foreign policy in Denmark. But I'm sorry, sir. Søren Espersen didn't have the courage to listen to us. It's such a basic foundation of democracy that we listen to each other, no matter how disagreeable we may be. Listen to this: I think it is a little violent to impose on the women's movement the whole responsibility for solving the task of having women in minority environments who do not have the same rights as men. In fact, I think that is putting away the responsibility. And the Danish People's Party has had a main responsibility for integration in Denmark for very, very many years, among others. in the '00s, where the party was the support party for the government. I see I must return.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111858	Here you go, sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111901	I would certainly like to listen, and it was also wrong of me that I lost the ability to listen at some point; I will work on that personally. But I would like to ask whether it has ever happened in the memory of Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen that there has been a demonstration of women's movements in front of mosques, in order to demonstrate against the oppression of women that is taking place. Has that even happened? I've never read about it and never heard of it, and I'd probably kill myself by surprise if it happened.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120111938	Well, I would think that was sad, too, because I can now tell Mr. Søren Espersen, that Enhedslisten has called many times for demonstrations around Hizb ut-Tahrir, which I think is one of the groups that has an uncommonly unsympathetic and hostile view of both women and men in this way, and there have been a great many feminists such as Mr Søren Espersen. Myself in these demonstrations. But I hope that Mr. Søren Espersen is about to drop dead. I would also like to say to Mr. Søren Espersen, that it is my experience that the various organisations and associations working with women's liberation fill the issue of negative social control very much. Voices like e.g. Khaterah Parwanis has been very much taken in and used to discuss how we ensure equality in these environments. So no, I just don't recognize that picture, sir. Søren Espersen draws.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112027	Thank you. Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112033	Thank you. I noticed that the rapporteur spoke a lot about poverty and poverty benefits. The rapporteur is very concerned about this, and I think it is very sympathetic. However, the rapporteur does not see that there may be a direct line between so-called poverty in Denmark and the fact that Denmark is being opened up to a large number of people without education who may not even be able to read and are from a cultural community which makes it extremely difficult to adapt in Denmark. And bearing in mind the problems we already have for ethnic Danes in breaking the social heritage, would the rapporteur not agree that we ourselves are helping to create the conditions for creating poverty in Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112117	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112120	It is true that I am talking about poverty in my speech today, and it is because I believe that some of what we can do by Christiansborg to ensure good integration and to guarantee women equal rights with men is to ensure that the living conditions that you have are actually in order. And I believe that the low performance of the integration service helps to isolate people. There is also a rule such as the 225-hour rule, which we know particularly from the experience of the '00s on women with minority backgrounds. What's going on? Those women become one hundred percent financially dependent on their husbands. This is an exceptionally bad starting point for equality. There is a reason why the women's movement, as Mr. Søren Espersen talks so much about, precisely for decades and centuries, having fought for women's economic equality with men, women's economic independence from men, because it is a prerequisite for equality. So I am concerned, also on behalf of equality, about the introduction of poverty benefits when the 250-hour rule is introduced, which particularly affects women with a minority background.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112226	Sir. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112230	Then I think we've talked past each other. I'm gonna try to rewind a little bit. So we agree, I hope, that it is very difficult to break the negative social heritage. It must be said to be even more difficult if you have people who have no education and come from another culture and who may lack the ability and willingness to integrate and who will at all have an extremely difficult time falling into Denmark. Does the rapporteur not think that the poverty that the rapporteur believes exists in Denmark is actually proportional to the number of poor people imported into Denmark? In other words, we are talking so much about doing a lot against poverty, and at the same time we are doing everything we can to support poverty by importing people who have no means of coping.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112317	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112319	If what the rapporteur is asking is whether it is difficult or whether it is simple to integrate refugees, for example. from Syria or Somalia in Denmark, then the answer is quite obvious that it is certainly not easy and simple. Many refugees come with severe trauma in their luggage, many come from societies that are very different from the Danish one. I believe that we have a moral responsibility to try to save people whose lives are in danger. We are one of the richest countries in the world. I do not think we can close our eyes to the world around us, but yes, it is not easy, it is not easy to integrate. The question is, how do we do the smartest thing? I believe that the policy of poverty benefits helps to make integration more difficult, and that affects all people in Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112409	Thank you. Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112413	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself said that it was the 225-hour rule that caused women to be maintained in this human vision and that they could not get out of parallel societies and everything else. I think one could rewind a little and ask: is it not all these religious and cultural considerations that society has taken for a very, very many years that help to keep women in the parallel society, because it gives men the right to say that women must stay at home and go on cash aid and must not get out to work? If we now pushed some of those cultural considerations and made sure that they were parked and said that we would no longer accept that in Denmark, because women simply have to be part of the labour market, then we did not get to where women could become dependent on the man's economy because they had to work for 225 hours.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112514	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112516	If the rapporteur asks whether I think it is the fault of the Danish cash aid system that there are women in minority environments who are oppressed, the answer is: No, of course not. But I think that among other things... The 225-hour rule helps to make it harder to eliminate this oppression, because in fact we are pursuing a policy which means that a group of women becomes one hundred percent economically dependent on their husbands. And precisely ensuring that women have their own economy, that they are financially independent of their husbands, is fundamental to the liberation of women. Then the rapporteur has asked a great deal about the issue of scarves and scarves in school, and that is also a bit of what the rapporteur is talking about now. I would say that I very much believe that it is to shoot yourself in the foot to legislate on it if you want to help young girls who are forced to wear a scarf. I believe that the result will be that far more young girls from Muslim homes will be sent to Muslim free schools, and I believe that the result will be that in this situation far more young girls will receive home education. So I do not think that legislation will solve that problem and change the fact that there are girls who are not allowed to choose freely whether they want to wear a scarf or not.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112629	Then it's Mrs. Susanne Eilersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112634	There is only political disagreement, because I believe that the opposite is the case: if women are to or are forced, or what words they are now using, they are allowed to enter the labour market, are allowed to participate in Danish society, are allowed to talk to other Danes, and then will be more easily able to break out of the role they have in these parallel societies and feel better. And I also think that if we remove all these considerations that are taken into account in relation to the young girls, it will be harder for the family to keep the girls in the parallel communities • because then we can better pull the girls out to participate in an ordinary association and leisure life together with all other Danish children and young people. What is the rapporteur's position?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112718	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112720	In other words, that is two things the rapporteur is addressing. If we start with this with the cash aid system, I would say that I see no doubt at all that there is unfortunately a very large group of women with minority backgrounds in Denmark who get 0 DKK. I was going to say that they would like money for a bus ticket or that they would ask for money to buy something for the kids or to go shopping is an exceptionally bad starting point for liberation. That is precisely why it has always been a main theme for the women's movement to say that we need to guarantee women's economic independence, because that is the prerequisite for them to be able to say away from their husbands. It is simply too crooked a relationship of power between man and woman that one creates when women have 0 kr. To live for.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112810	Thank you. Then it's mr. Martin Henriksen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112817	Thank you for that and thank you for the rapporteur's speech. Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen said that freedom of religion is an important value. Then I would like to hear whether she can confirm that in Islam there is not religious freedom, and whether that is not an argument for going up against the Islamisation of society that we see, and which, of course, means that people in certain areas of Denmark simply cannot choose freely because they must not break out of Islam. So is that not a very good argument for opposing Islam and against the Islamisation of society, and also against the immigration that is to Denmark from Islamic countries?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112848	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112849	It is the case with Islam, as with all other religions, that they can be interpreted in countless ways, and I think there are some who interpret Islam in a way that I find anti-human, i.e.. This whole thing about the woman having to cover up because those poor men so that they can't stop assaulting them. It is both an unusual anti-female view, and it is also a man - hostile view. Think how disrespectful it is to men to say that they simply cannot control themselves unless the woman is covered. That's how some people interpret Islam, and I think that's crazy. It's infinitely far from my values. Then there are some who interpret Christianity in crazy, crazy ways, which I think are women's oppressive and which I think are male oppressive. So it is with religion, it can be interpreted in all possible ways. That's the way it is with most things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112946	Sir. Martin Henriksen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120112952	I do not know whether the rapporteur will agree with the following assertion, that is to say that there are more problems in the Muslim environments in Denmark than there are, for example. is within the Christian environments, for example, when it comes to social control. We can see, of course, as regards the sheltered housing for women who are in Denmark, where you sometimes have to go through a lot of security measures to get in there that it is very much people with Muslim background who are in the places in question, and that is because these problems are greatest in Islam. Then the rapporteur does not think that there is, for example, a need for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at work. isn't religious freedom in Islam? that's a widespread interpretation? is an independent argument for going against the Islamisation that is in society, and an independent argument to make sure that waves of Muslim migrants do not keep coming to the country? That's one question...
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113040	No, I'm sorry. Then there were no more questions). Then we must start by asking the questions, because the speaking time has actually been exceeded. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113046	Unfortunately, there are far too many women in Denmark who are subjected to violence by current and former partners, both women with ethnic Danish backgrounds and women with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish. On the other hand, there is no doubt that negative social control is greater in certain ethnic minority environments. We know, for example, that in relation to some of the women from these environments who are fleeing their families, unlike the Danish woman who gets beat up by her husband, and where it is only the man, if I may say so, she is struggling with the whole family. This requires that we have a system that is ready to help her in a different way than when it is just the man who has to be done with, and we must take that seriously. And we've started doing that. I think we could listen more to those women's crisis centres, which actually have a lot of good ideas about how we could strengthen the position of these women.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113146	Thank you. There are no more comments or questions to the rapporteur. Thank you. I should like to point out that there is another proposal for adoption which is part of the further negotiations. Then it's Mrs. Christina Egelund, the Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113202	Thank you. I hope I will succeed in maintaining Mr. Søren Espersen's attention throughout the speech. I can at least begin by saying that it wishes, Mr President. Søren Espersen said to Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen that it would be nice for the women's movement to be more marked in the debate on oppressed women, I fully share. So far, so good, you could say. The value struggle is raging, not only in Denmark, but in most of the world. The open, free democracies, liberal freedoms, with everything they bring about by freedom for citizens, are being challenged by totalitarian tendencies that will anything but freedom for the individual. That is why it is also an important debate that is being held here, and I would like to sign Mr Seligman's letter. Søren Espersen to do just that. I have never felt as Danish as when I lived in Paris for a number of years, just as I became very aware of my European roots when I lived in Canada for a few years. There is nothing strange about that in itself, for it is when we meet something new and stranger that we become aware of the old and the known. This also means that, paradoxically, globalisation, which brings us all closer together, also brings with it a greater awareness of national identity. We have, for example. in Denmark in the autumn had a thorough social debate about Danishism and what it takes to call oneself Danish. Politically, globalisation raises the question of more or less European integration, of national sovereignty, of free trade and protectionism, of realism and populism. From the perspective of the Liberal Alliance, Denmark must face globalisation with an open and ambitious mind. We must work together in Europe, we must work for more free trade in the world, we must not fall short of easy, populist responses to complex issues, we must not be walled up. We will not be less Danish than that; we will not lose national sovereignty or identity by that, on the contrary. As I said at the outset, there are extremist currents today who want a society which, on most parameters, is the opposite of the free, open society we have in Denmark, which does not think that democracy is the best form of government, which does not advocate free press without censorship, which does not pay lip service to freedoms such as freedom of assembly or freedom of religion, and which does not think that women are as much worth as men and for whom sexual orientations other than heterosexuals are considered a criminal sin. These currents are also seen in Denmark, and in my optics they represent a view of life and a view of society that belongs in a dark, medieval world. So what do we do with them? Yes, we do as we have done in the past, when totalitarian thought sets have challenged the free world; we insist on our own values, on freedom, on the right to believe in who or what you want, on the free press, on the free expression of opinion, on the equal value of women and on the equality of homosexuals. Those values are unshakable, and you have to live by them when you live in Denmark. At the same time, we must not meet totalitarian thinking with small-scale totalitarian tools. We must not bend the freedom of expression; we must not legislate on dress and on the political side, on the retail side, what we eat or do not eat in, for example. The country's kindergarten. The text of this debate says that you want to debate value policy with a focus on the challenges arising from immigration, which pushes or forces the Danes to change their way of life and behaviour and to correct them for the sake of immigrants. I do not see that we are adjusting, and neither are we. Now, of course, it is up to those who have raised the question debate to interpret exactly what is meant by correcting, but I would like to try to set a framework for how we in the Liberal Alliance view immigration policy. We believe that Denmark should be an open country for those who can and will contribute, and this applies to foreigners who come here with the aim of taking a job and, moreover, complying with the laws of the country. This also means that we must limit the immigration of those who cannot or will not support themselves, and if you do not comply with the laws of the country, you have nothing to do here. When it comes to asylum policy, the position of the Liberal Alliance is that the rules should be completely different from what we know, and here we need to look into Europe and seek common solutions to how we deal with the enormous flows of refugees and migrants that have struck Europe in recent years and to some extent surprised Europe. The current situation, in which thousands of desperate people die every year when they seek a better life in Europe by travelling in fragile boats across the Mediterranean, must be turned into a situation in which we help far more people in the neighbourhood. It is government policy, and it is the ambition of the Liberal Alliance to find common understanding in Europe for a more rational and more humane way of dealing with the refugee and migrant crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113725	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen from the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113740	Thank you. I heard everything, and I think I also understood everything, so that's fine. Please let me say to this about being an open country and opening up to the outside world and inviting skilled workers and experts to the country that it is absolutely correct. By the way, it is something that has existed as far back as I can remember. That is also why I mentioned this situation with my own wife, who came to the country long before the free movement of workers and who got a job and a work permit right away. I would like the Liberal rapporteur to confirm that getting experts to Denmark and having transparency in this sense has nothing to do with what we now call the free movement of workers, that it also existed before, where it was precisely the case that we could choose and choose between who came in.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113829	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113832	I'm assuming that Mr. Knox... Søren Espersen refers to the fact that the free movement of workers is in Europe and that it has resulted in the internal market. It is true that Denmark was not surrounded by a wall, so that there was no access for foreigners until we had freedom of movement, but one does not exclude the other, and there is no doubt that the free movement of workers has resulted in the opening up of people who come to Denmark primarily from Eastern Europe to take a job in Denmark. Not long ago we got an inventory that shows that it is actually a really good business for Denmark. Therefore, there is no contradiction between having an open approach to immigration for people who want to work and who are experts, as Mr. Søren Espersen put it and then to be part of European cooperation. It's kind of in line with each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113919	Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113924	The only problem is that now we can no longer say no. We used to. People also came before this was adopted in the EU system, which simply could not be allowed to obtain work and residence permits. One could sort them out, which one would not think would be of benefit and joy to Denmark. That is the new one, and that is what constitutes the problem itself. It is not that there are experts from Eastern Europe or from other European countries. We never meant that. But it is precisely that we cannot say no to those who are certainly undesirable.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113953	Mrs. Christina Egelund.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120113956	But then we are just politically divided, and peace be with it, you might say. I have no desire or ambition for us to be able to say no to a labour force. I have a wish that we should do so much more, for example. can expel criminal foreigners and people who are criminals against our laws and that we must be far more capable of ensuring that those who are here actually have a job and can support themselves. But saying no to people who want to take a job does not stay with the votes of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114022	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur in the rapporteur's series is Mr Alternate. René Gade.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114036	Thank you. When you are lucky enough to stand here on the platform, you must always have a fairly clear purpose for what you want to say. Today, I believe that with the question debate we have, it must be to try to bring together not only the Folketing, but the whole of Denmark, because a division is being set up here. Whatever it is, the division is due to whether what we are being subjected to in Denmark is either something external or something that has arisen here in Denmark. Then you can state whether it is a real problem or whether you disagree with some of the nuances, but it will be my main focus. I am here instead of my colleague, Josephine Fock, who usually takes care of the area. The alternative here very much disagrees with the wording of the text of the question. We do not think, as several other rapporteurs have said, that we are being, what it says, forced to change the way of life and behaviour and forced to correct it. It is very much up to us. It's about how we dare grow the values that are in Denmark and dare grow them highly and proudly. I don't get scared of a formbrog, if it should be behind me right now, or if I should have it printed on the sweater... I'd love to. I'm proud to be a Dane. I am proud to live where I live in a small provincial district where I think almost everyone is of Danish origin. Makes me feel safe. I was also happy to live in Copenhagen when I lived there, Italy or France, or where I lived. There I was comfortable in another way and experienced curiously in another way. I think we should be careful not to decide what is right and what is wrong. Because like to set the tone, I've actually chosen to read something from a wise man, it's a song, and I promise I won't sing it. That fg. President-in-Office of the Council. ) It's to put things in perspective. Now we have a debate here where it's as if it's all peaking right now. It's never been worse, it sounds, at least, a little between the lines. What do we do now? We're on the verge of something. And yes, we have problems with Danes who do foolish things. We have problems with politicians who do not keep their word, colleagues who do not do what they should do, friends and family who act selfishly and without thought and without empathy. That's how I think it's gonna be forever. This song was published in 1995 and was written by a rather popular artist, Allan Olsen. I haven't asked for permission to read it, so he's not to blame for the way I'm going to use it. It's called Wir will ein Denmark and I hope you will listen to it, and you may almost hum with it: I have enjoyed the luxus of being able to travel through poverty one mass/from Ganges over Vesterbro's slum/on my own kind of nas/from Chieng Mai • over Bombay's decay/to the poorest beggar in Rome/was the only cry I got/- hello friend where do you come from?///I turn on my TV and recognize the world in fire/and say to myself - guys we have advice/to a helping hand/lost fathers lost mothers/lost kids as fragile glass/watching into the heat and asking for a free space/it's o.k. with you/who of us should be judge/gather and point//wir will ein gute Denmark/good for us and good for them/it becomes et o.k. Denmark/how welcome here falls easily/and kindness is a trend//I see them in Kastrup undasphemed in unfashionable clothes/disgusting of cold sweat/and with the touch of small hopes/I see the plastic flower of Denmark's stupidity stand up/cloak tie that says - send the whole bunch home/horizon as a mink/tom as a Texacoplastic Dunk/propos gasoline/forglem all about Lübeck and Berlin/hear what your queen sir You can interpret it as you like, but I think it is strong, and I have heard it many times from when I was a little boy until now. And it is not because the proposal for adoption that we from the Alternative and a few other parties have recommended here in the Danish Parliament today is necessarily better than the other parties' proposals for adoption, but I think it has the set of values that I also see in this song, and which I think must cross the parties of the Danish Parliament, that is, a set of values that we do not think makes us any better than others. We don't think we have the truth. We think the truth is somewhere between us. And whether there is one god or more, I don't know, but at least I'm sure there's something bigger than me; I'm actually very sure that there's a lot bigger than me. I think we should keep that in mind, even when we meet new people, neighbors here. As I said before: yes, we have problems and we have challenges, and we will continue to have that. And then we should remember that Denmark is part of a larger whole, and many of the challenges we see may be due to the way we experience in the business community that we are being pressured from the south and the west and the east and the north. We will also be forward-looking on our values, so we must therefore stand firm on them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114547	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one person who has asked for a brief comment, and that is Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114555	The alternative always has a hope and a dream that we'll get together on this, but we won't. Let's just say it's the alternative's dream. The Founder of the Radical Left, Viggo Hørup, said in the 1880s: Share your views and attitudes, it is necessary in a people's government. What comes here is a good thing: what is going on here in the Danish Parliament is really a game for the alternative, and it is also understandable that the rapporteur is now leaving Parliament in some form of contempt for the people's rule. This is serious. It's serious for us who are raising this query debate. It's not a game to try to get together and have a good time, which is what the alternative stands for. I simply will not accept that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114644	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114648	I actually saw it as a comment, but I will try to answer anyway. I should like to start by saying that the fact that I personally have chosen not to reappear is in the utmost respect for the people's rule and also for Mr. Søren Espersen. I take every opportunity to commend Mr. Søren Espersen's wit, which is far greater than mine, also historical and political, then we can disagree. But the fact that I am leaving Parliament is precisely because I really want to go back in once, when I have been oxidized, as I have said, when I have become even wiser, when I have seen myself from the outside and said: Does what I have said here from the platform give meaning, is it meaningful, and is the alternative on the right track? I think we are right now, but sometimes it can be healthy just to come out and see yourself from the outside. In reply to Mr. Søren Espersen says that sometimes it can also be healthy to see the attitudes you have, a little from the outside, outside Denmark. So if you do not accept what I am saying here and where I am actually trying to recognise, among other things. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Søren Espersen's party will be difficult to communicate with other people outside the borders of the country. It will be difficult if what I am doing here is not acceptable, in other words to read out the song of a popular artist with the hope that we will come together on something that we almost all agree on freedom of expression, that it is the courts and the police that must help us, and that we must let the municipalities do what it takes in the room to enforce the rules that are laid down, and that if we have too much problems, we must step in here from the political point of view. Well, there's a very, very large collection about what we're talking about today, so if this could set the world on fire, I'll take it with me.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114810	I should just like to remind all debaters that it is a good idea for us to keep the debate on the subject and not to become too personal. Sir. Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114819	I don't have anything personal to put on Mr. René Gade. I consider him a good colleague, but I just don't understand what he stands for. I don't understand this feeling that you can always get together. No, we have to decide now and here whether to buy 28 new fighter planes costing 21 billion. kr.; we must decide whether the border should be permanently monitored; we must decide how much is to be paid out of various things here on the part of the Folketing. It's our task... it's a practical task that we've been given by the people's government and that we do as well as we can, and always for the benefit of the people of Denmark, we think. When Mr. René Gade comes back to the Folketing, what I hope he does, he will meet the same reality, for it has been a distinctive feature of the Danish people's government since Viggo Hørup's time when he said: Share your views. He did not say: go on some sensitive compromise where we can all be. It is the soul of the people's regime that we are talking about here, and I am sure that the Radical Left rapporteur will confirm that it is
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114924	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120114927	Now I am almost afraid to say that I agree that it is quite essential that we stand here and are politicians and are responsible and take it very, very seriously. Well, I find it hard to see where it is that I differ from it. In terms of decision-making and decision-making, I would say that I can hardly see that we are doing anything else. We simply make decisions in the world and tell about the visions we have for Denmark, which are so ambitious that it is almost only Danish business and Grundfos' director who can keep up. And LEGO has thus seen the same views as we make on whether it is about a more embracing Denmark and a more open Denmark in relation to skilled labour. So what I get shot in my shoes, i.e. that I do not accept the Folketing, I simply cannot see. I think I am trying very ambitiously to suggest that we are brave and intelligent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115023	With those words no one else has any brief comments to make on Mr. René Gade. The next rapporteur is Radical Left rapporteur, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115031	I know Danes and Denmark as a country of liberalism, with freedom to differ, where opinions are broken, as Hørup said, but also as a country where fundamental democratic rights are more than just highly-sung ideals. We Danes actually deliver them, we use them, and Danish values cannot be reduced to anything about meatballs or douchebags, even though I truly love both. We have also spent a great deal of time debating Danishism in recent months. Can you be Danish and wear a scarf, e.g.? Of course you can. Can you be Danish and dream of Sharia? You can be an ethnic Danish converter and dream of sharia, for example, you can. Of course you can. It is so sad that there are people dreaming of Sharia, just as it is extremely sad that there are people dreaming of white domination in the world, and therefore it is a fruitless debate to discuss what real Danishness is all about. It is interesting, I think, to discuss what we each associate with Danishness. I am personally deeply concerned about Denmark's cultural heritage. But we cannot put Danishism and Danish values on the formula and keep them up against a checklist with a number of characteristics that we have come up with here in the Danish Parliament, and then decide whether one is Danish or not on that basis. The key to the cohesion of our society is, of course, whether we behave in such a fundamental way as people in relations with each other, in relations with our children and in relations with other people. We must, for example, do something about it. do not engage in violence and harassment, we must not suppress, we have the right to equality and equal treatment, regardless of who we are. As other rapporteurs, I am proud of that. We must fight for that. Incitement to violence is also forbidden. The latest call, which I remember, comes from the man who is being appointed President of the United States today. He said in March: If you see someone getting ready to throw a tomato, beat him to death. Really, seriously, okay, just beat up, I'll pay the lawyer bill, I promise. Extremists we must fight against. We must fight against oppressors. And let me just make it quite clear: extremists who break the law, whether they are imams or who they are, must of course be prosecuted, just as we prosecute all other people who break the law. They must also be spoken against, they must be combated with all the democratic means at our disposal, every day so that their congregations are minimized, and those they oppress have won the freedom that everyone else enjoys. Actually, we owe it. On the other hand, it is not time to sell out what has founded our free, beautiful society: freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom of association. On the contrary, it is more than ever time for us to stand firm with all those who are in Denmark, immigrants, Danes with different ethnic backgrounds, ourselves, who every day contribute to Danish society, to actively use fundamental rights to combat extremism and radicalisation. And we have to be there for all those who fight that fight of freedom and equality every day, because there are plenty who do. We have to reach out to them. We must provide the help, and we must say: we are on your team. It's for me and it's my assessment... it's not a checklist, but it's basic Danish and it's what creates our cohesion.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115505	Thank you. Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Søren Espersen, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115507	Thank you. Well, no one forbids any human being to dream of what they want. I fully agree with the rapporteur on this. As long as it doesn't affect others, they'll have to. That's what's at the heart of this. We have a situation where the people who then dream about Sharia and the introduction of the caliphate, and what do I know, are those who force young girls into marriages they do not want. They're the ones who make sure little girls are shrouded. They are the ones who issue death threats or even kill those who leave the faith. And it is also they who send innocent people on reeducational journeys. That's the problem. That's not what people dream of, they have to. I also fully agree that many strange things are being said around the world, but we have a separate problem here that we have to solve, and that is when Islam thus enters Danish society and starts to set standards or impose standards, and that we change. There's the problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115610	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115612	I agree that we must fight extremists and oppressors who expose girls, boys, people to the kind described by the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party. After all, it is people who are doing it • people who are actually doing oppression, and we must combat them.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115632	Søren Espersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115635	But the Radical Left itself helps to accept the things that we find monstrous; helps to accept gender-separated swimming instruction; helps to accept that a certain kind of food should be served in institutions etc. After all, the Radical Left accepts all these things, and thus it is also a blue stamp of the people who dream of Sharia.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115700	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115703	I fundamentally disagree with that. I do not accept oppression, I do not accept people who do not respect equality and equal treatment for women and men. I want to fight that, and I personally spend a lot of effort on it. I wish, sir. Søren Espersen used his powers just as well. What this is about in the specific cases is that I do not think we should legislate in this Parliament about what kind of food should be served in day-care institutions. But I think it is really important that it is not the case that all sorts of food cannot be served in day care institutions, and I say that. I do, and we in the Radical Left do that all the time. But we should not legislate on what kind of clothes people should wear and what kind of food they should eat. I think we have skilled municipalities that can take care of that in local discussions.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115800	Thank you to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. There are no more questions. The next rapporteur is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen of the Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120115815	Thank you, President. For us in the SF, some of the Danish values are democracy; that one can participate in and vote in the elections; that the minority is protected from the majority; that one can speak freely; that one can assemble freely; and that we talk together. A key value for us is equality. It has been, as long as I can remember, and since the 1960s the SF has supported and been an integral part of the women's movement. And that is why open mind is equally important to us, that we dare to explore the world, that we dare to challenge the prevailing view of society, that we accept differences and different sexualities. These are some battles we have fought for so many years, and I think they are values on which many of us in this House can agree. They are also supported by the vast majority of Christians, Jews and Muslims. Unfortunately, there are also pockets in this country where stagnated social and women's vision flourishes, which is why in the SF we have repeatedly focused on social control and insisted on equal rights between men and women and respect for the individual regardless of sexuality. And we hear the stories, whether it is Geeti Amiri, who has shared his story about his brother and his violence, and where he has subsequently shared the story of how much he has regretted what he has done; or whether it is Abdel Aziz Mahmoud and his glorious family, whom we have been able to follow on DR, and the story of him and his boyfriend there, by the way, comes from a Christian background, where he was told that homosexuality is the way to hell and where a priest tried to heal him. A third value, which we do not think is discussed so much, is equality, and it is something that we in the SF think is unique to Denmark, namely that we live in a fairly equal society, that most people can take an education and that everyone has the opportunity to live a reasonably good life if we help each other. We think this is an important Danish value. Unfortunately, our society is moving in an increasingly unequal direction, and this is a political priority on the part of this government supported by DF. But we also want to see even more focus on democracy in primary school. We believe that, from day one, gender equality should be taught, that sexism is not right, that there is no difference between men and women. We do not think there is any difference between mathematics education and camp education, so we must demand that girls, wherever they come from, also attend camp. You have to pursue an active school policy so that we do not suddenly have schools where 70%. of the students have different ethnic backgrounds, because we don't think that works. Special offers must be made for children and adolescents under 18 years of age. There must be offers to young girls who have experienced a domestic crisis and who have been unfairly treated. There must be special treatment, housing and foster families for young people. And there must be more places in shelters for those women who are at risk so that they are not forced to return to the family or to the parallel society, and so that they are given the means to rebel. I think that some of the stories we have heard from women who have been subjected to social control and who have shared their history with us show great courage, and no matter how unreasonable and unacceptable it is, the positive thing is that we are seeing development. Now I mentioned before Geeti Amiri, who has been very active in the debate, and there has just been a DR documentary about her brother, who exposed her to violence and who today is terribly sorry and can see that it was wrong. So I do not think we should overlook the fact that when it comes to some of the cultural problems that may exist in some families, there is also a development over time. I would really like to thank DF for inviting us to the debate. There are many things we do not agree on, but I think it is good to have this discussion in the Assembly. Then we have different priorities, in relation to what Danish values are, but it's nice to take the discussion, and now it's almost become a tradition. So I look forward to any questions that might come from DF. But as a final comment I would like to say that I do not really believe that we look at the fact that there are some places in Danish society where unacceptable things are going on. I think we look differently at how best to ensure co-existence, that we have dialogue with each other, and that we may also have different views as to whether we should try to solve some of the problems that exist in society or whether we simply do not want a society where there is also a relatively large number of people with other religious backgrounds. That's not polemical. I think it's just a sketch of some of the differences that exist. From the SF's point of view, it is not for discussion whether we have a multi-ethnic and multi-cultural society. This does not mean that we cannot insist on values that some call Danish values.I think they also have them elsewhere, like some of those we appreciate and which we think it is absolutely fundamental that we should have in this society, namely gender equality, freedom and freedom.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120120402	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. No one was challenged, so there are no brief remarks or questions. Then there is the possibility that the Conservatives will have their speaking time, but I see no conservative in the Chamber. Then we move on to the PM.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120120427	Thank you. Thank you for a good debate on a good note, which shows, moreover, what has just been said by the SF rapporteur, namely that we have held this debate before; it has almost become a tradition that these are themes that concern us all. I take note of the fact that it is not very articulate in this way, so I can nevertheless conclude that there is a solid majority behind the government's strict, consistent and realistic immigration policy. Of course, we do not agree on everything, but I dare conclude that we agree on the direction. I am delighted, and perhaps it is a little more than one can say about the parliamentary basis on which the opposition, if it were no longer to be an opposition but a government, would be based. At any rate, I am very easily able to hear significant nuances in the speeches made by the Enhedslisten, the Alternative, the SF, the Social Democratic Party and the Radical Left. A small example of this is the whole question of whether one should have access to work as an asylum seeker from day one. I understand the radical position, it is a little unclear what the social democratic position is, but in my view it would certainly be a quite wrong signal to send out in a situation where we know that the flows of refugees we are facing are not mere flows of refugees. It is clear that there are people fleeing from war. There are also people who are fleeing to the dream of a better life, and if we created a common basic conditions that were said that when you came across the Danish border and said: asylum!, you also had access to the Danish labour market, then it would be a pull factor I think it is called in modern Danish in this language. We should avoid that, and that is why it is probably very good that we have the government we have, which has an ambition to look after Denmark, a Denmark which is based on binding communities, but where there is also room for diversity, a Denmark where there is openness to well-qualified foreigners, and where we must be very aware that we are not all over the board, so that we maintain an openness towards those who come here with the desire, abilities and appetite to make a positive difference, but, on the other hand, are as clearly closed as possible to those who cannot and will not share our fundamental values or contribute to the community. That is, of course, the distinction that must be made and which I think has also marked the debate today, where I am delighted that there has been room for nuances. It must also be a Denmark where you are allowed to think, believe and live as you like, as long as you stay within the law, but where we do not have parallel societies cut off from the rest of Denmark and where law and law have been put out of effect. And it is really here that we are challenged, because, if we are to be honest with each other, there has been a policy in the near future for a generation which has originally been too relaxed and which has led us today to face the challenges of the second, third and soon fourth generation, which cannot just be snapped away, because no matter how one analyzes the situation, the solution cannot be that we say to Danish citizens: it does not work, you should not be here anymore. We are leading the country from where we stand, and we are facing some challenges with parallel societies where children and young people are failing and where they risk being isolated from our common society and radicalised by local rabid preachers. We must do something about that, and we will do something about it. That is why we have taken these steps to tighten up the future so that we can control immigration so that it is not uncontrollable, so that those who come are people we want to come and so that it is not carried by chance. That is why we have tightened up the agreement on religious ministers. That is also why we need to pursue a tough legal policy. In a short time, the government will be presenting a gang-rocker package, which is also important in this debate. I mentioned that I was in Vollsmose yesterday, and it goes without saying that it is a challenge in relation to the young boys who grow up in that district and who we would like to have to look after their school and apply for an internship, whose gangsters obviously have to stand laughing the police up in the face and tear up the fines because they cannot be recovered anyway. That is why there is a connection, and this debate on value policy is not just about our foreign policy; it is also about our legal policy. That is why we are pursuing a strong ambition that it should pay to work in terms of obtaining a ceiling on cash benefits and integration benefits, because we know that when we look at cash benefits couples, they are mostly represented by people with ethnic backgrounds other than Danish, and we simply have to do something to promote that in circles that are not ethnic Danish, we also find our way to our labour market. Because if you grow up in a neighbourhood where crime is to see where the gangs thrive, where there is a status symbol attached to it, where a majority of adults do not go to work, then the possibility is that you will break out of the ghetto in a sense of the word and get a foothold in Danish society, get an education, get a Danish circle of friends, get a job, too little. That is why we must maintain the policy we are pursuing, and we are completely open to • and there will also be situations during this calendar year to see whether there is room for further tightening, more profit principles or other things that promote the development we want. But for me, it is just important to stick to the dimension that says that we are not cutting everyone off. Fortunately, there are plenty of naturalised Danes who have a different belief from the one I have, who have chosen Denmark completely and positively, and it is important that we have the debate with that nuance so that we do not get, albeit not intended, a signal to them that they are not welcome. That is why we must make firm demands and meet everyone with expectations. That is why we must stand firm and be proud of the values on which Denmark is founded: democracy, freedom, equality and community. In short, it is to close down those who cannot and will not, and continue to preserve Denmark as an open society for those who choose us actively and who want to help make Denmark stronger. With that I would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121142	Yeah, but it's not quite over yet. There are a few who would like to ask a few questions. The first is sir. Martin Henriksen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121150	Thank you. And thanks to the Prime Minister for the speech. I would like to ask what is the position of the Left, but also of the government on Islamic symbols in public space. After all, there are representatives of the Left, representatives of the government, who have said that they want to break up with these symbols, because they believe that it is helping to divide the population. So I would like to know whether the Prime Minister can confirm that it is government policy that you want to take a stand against Islamic symbols in public space and, if so, how you intend to take that stand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121221	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121222	I would very much like to contribute to an attitudinal battle with Islamic symbols, fully in line with what other rapporteurs have also mentioned. Does this then lead to a legislative dispute with what will be religious symbols? It's a different discussion, isn't it? In other words, we have freedom of religion in Denmark, which is why it is not so simple that we can just pick out certain religious symbols and say that, in relation to them, we are making prohibition legislation. And that's why you come very quickly if you go practically and move it from this attitude discussion with the quick tenders into a more complex discussion about whether or not we want religious symbols in public space at all. And I do not want to legislate against this in order to be brief.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121317	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121319	However, for many, many years we have been able to go back ten years in time to hear the opinions of the Left and members of the Danish People's Party, the Conservatives, the Social Democratic Party and all sorts of other parties saying that we must now fight Islamic symbols and religious symbols in public because they are too much. And you have typically referred to Islam in these discussions, Islamism, or whatever you want to call it. But as you have had that debate, the number of these symbols in the public space has actually increased. So would it not be possible at some point to legislate against it by saying, for example, that religious headgear in primary schools or in schools receiving public subsidies are not allowed? Because we can see that even if you want to take the stance and that's fine, it doesn't lead to fewer of these symbols coming. In fact, there are gradually more, so at some point you have to do away with yourself and say that the strategy you have pursued to reduce the number of these symbols in public space has not worked.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121418	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121420	If the scarf is a symbol of an underlying problem, the big question is whether you get the problem to go away by removing the symbol. Well, that's kind of the big question. We've got with Mr. Knox. Martin Henriksen's party tightened the legislation and also introduced criminal liability for people who like to force this symbolism down on others. But I would like to say that I would much rather fight for a Muslim girl who takes off her scarf herself than make legislation that would prevent her from wearing it if you could put it that way. And you can't take that as an indication that I don't care that this symbolism is gaining ground. Well, I think it's a challenge. It's a challenge to move around in residential areas in Denmark I was, as I said, one of the places yesterday where you have a feeling that it's not really Denmark you're walking around in; that is, it is. However, it has grown up over a generation for many different reasons, and one does not make it go away by making a single legislative act about the removal of a certain symbol attached to it. It is true that this discussion has also taken place in my own party, just as it is going on in other parties, and this is probably linked to the fact that this is a dilemma. There is a will of attitude that we want to put through, and it just comes with a price • because we also live in a society in which we have a principle of equality and equal treatment and, moreover, freedom of religion. And I think that if we stick around in those symbolic elements, which are probably not going to make the problem go away, rather than addressing the underlying problems more openly, we risk getting off the wrong foot. In my optics, it is about a tough legal policy; it is about an immigration policy where we do not allow the problem to grow bigger; it is about having a labour market policy and a social law that, as it were, massages people into active participation; it is about taking tough action against preachers who abuse their position. It is therefore about this type of thing and, by the way, about some housing policy that is about giving the ghettos back to the surrounding society. Unfortunately, I do not think it is so simple that with a grip we can make this cultural problem go away.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121656	The next question is from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen from the Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121700	Thank you for that, and thank you to the Prime Minister. Thank you, in particular, for the fact that the Prime Minister is finally spending some time discussing this issue with how extremely important it is that we do not generalise, so that on the one hand we can talk about the problems that exist in minority environments, but on the other hand we do not make sure that everyone, such as myself, does not say that they do not. is Muslims in Denmark, is a problem for Danish society, because of course it is not. I will ask about quota refugees, and I will, because the Prime Minister says that the Prime Minister is calling for an asylum system with fewer injustices. I agree with what we need. What if we could avoid criminal smugglers? What if we could make sure that those who have the greatest need are also those who have protection? Imagine if we could be better at relieving the surrounding areas. That is precisely what the United Nations quota refugee system can do, which is why I find it so extremely difficult to understand and so bad a signal that the government has chosen no longer to accept 500 quota refugees per year. How do these two positions work together, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121804	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121805	I think it is very simple. I basically agree that it was much better that we did not have spontaneous asylum seekers and that we then took people in via quota. But in a situation where the European Union has not managed its external borders and we have therefore had an increase in the number of spontaneous asylum seekers we are now in the process of getting it under control. We cannot have both our back door and our front door open, if I may put it that way. In other words, the front door would be that we had a system in which the external borders of the European Union were controlled; we did not seek spontaneous asylum; we applied for it via a quota system; it would be a front door, that is, the United Nations quota refugee system. The back door in this picture I'm now making up is this spontaneous flu, where you come all the way from Africa, Afghanistan or somewhere else and all the way up in Europe, and suddenly you stand in Denmark and have something similar to a legal requirement. I'd rather people come in through the front door, but that requires us to close the back door first, because we can't do both, because numbers mean something. And that is also where the debate has moved in Denmark over a number of years. I don't hear any parties saying that numbers don't matter. So little is there to make the left tell us how many we have room for, because every time the rest of us tighten, we tighten too much. But numbers matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121929	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120121931	Firstly, precisely in a situation where there are historically many people fleeing, as the Prime Minister also points out, is it not particularly important to give priority to strengthening the system of the United Nations quota refugee system, which is a way of securing the front door rather than the back door, in order to remain in the Prime Minister's image? Secondly, right now, the number of asylum seekers is low, so we can discuss what this is about. I believe that the main reason is that the Balkans route is closed and the agreement with Turkey is closed, but I also believe that family reunification is important, even if I disagree with them, but no matter what the number of asylum seekers in Denmark is now low. How far should it go before Denmark can retake quota refugees?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122021	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122023	First of all, we must have security in relation to the fall we have seen and worked hard to achieve. And I agree that it is a combination of some measures that have been taken internationally, among other things. That the Balkan route has been closed down, but indeed, as Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen says, measures that we have taken ourselves in relation to conditions of residence, which are important and which are also the reason why we can see that the search patterns for the European countries are different. Denmark is not the first country to meet if you come from, for example. Afghanistan. You go through many countries and then you put your asylum application somewhere, and you do so with a less propensity in Denmark now than you did before, and this is due to our tightening up. But we have to have safe ground under our feet. It is not long ago that we had to operate in our long-term plans with the idea of 25 000 asylum seekers coming every year. 25,000! Fortunately, this has been brought under control, and last year the figure fell to around 6,000, and we are now planning financially for a figure called 10,000, which will be a burden on our economy and which will also push our welfare framework out in the municipalities. That number's going down. And I welcome the fact that over the last six months we have seen very low figures, but there are still challenges. There is the Western Mediterranean route, and there are a number of other things that mean that this must be kept under strong observation, and we have not so much control over it and seen so low figures over so long that there is still a basis to say that we are also taking quota refugees.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122153	Then it is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122157	Thank you. And thank you for the Prime Minister's speech. After all, there are many things that we can stand here and agree on, that social control and parallel societies are bad and that we must do something about that. It's just that we in the Danish People's Party may think that we don't really do as much about it as we would like. And that is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he ever believes that we can get rid of social control and parallel societies without having to legislate about it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122224	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122226	No, I do not think so, and that is also why we legislate, and indeed we have done so in a number of rounds, where we have done so, among other things. has tightened a number of penal regulations. That's why we made a package here last year about religious preachers, and that's why we, for example. has said that you are punished if you force others to bear certain religious symbols. So we have what the discussion is going on here today is how we can, if necessary, wisely legislate more effectively. And there I just have to say that if I really believed that by saying that it is illegal to put on a scarf, then got solved, one might say, the underlying problems, which I think we completely share an analysis of are there, yes, so for my sake perhaps no alarm. But I don't think removing the symbol makes the problem go away. That's one thing. The second thing is that it takes something with it, because when we talk about Danish values, we also have some fundamental values that are about equal treatment, about freedom of religion and other things, and we also have a constitution that we must take into account. And we might well be in a situation where the fact that we were going to legislate in relation to something that we saw here might agree that we would rather not look on the street, then for the reasons I have mentioned here, we also had to let this legislation apply to symbols that we might intuitively want to see. That's the complexity of this. And I am very sorry to draw it out, because I fully understand that it was much, much simpler and easier and would seem much more effective if you could just say: we do not want to see the things that are forbidden by law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122409	Fortunately, the government says that we are a Christian country, and I know that we have freedom of religion, but not religion. But let it go. We use prevention very, very many places, and I would like the Prime Minister to put on that hat and say: It is better to prevent and go in and tell the parents that there are therefore some guidelines in this country where girls must participate in camp schools, swimming, gymnastics and anything else than it is to heal. I think it is better to prevent an 8-year-old girl from wearing a scarf than being in a parallel society and not being actively involved with all other young people and then having to make sure that she gets the scarf off. Can't the Prime Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122452	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122454	Well, I fully agree that prevention is better than cure, and that is true in all the contexts of life, whether we are talking about economics and I hope that the questioner's own party will also help us to make a number of adjustments to our economy, which means that it does not become ill on the long track or health policy, as is the case here. And that is why we also need to get to grips with this, so from the point of view of childhood I agree very much with that. But a ban that states that girls of a certain age must not wear a scarf in the open space will not in itself mean that there is certainty that they will not wear it when they return home. So I think that the prevention we need to address is to make sure that everyone learns how to speak Danish, that everyone from childhood is forced into some communities where there are also Danish children and young people, and that, as the questioner says, they are included in camp schools and such things. That's what it's all about for me to see, more than the scarf as a symbolic thing. And what really worries me is when I see that some of the young boys and apologize that I talk a lot about boys, but that's the kind of passion I've been seeing as the ones I met yesterday, taking down the social signals in that very, very inappropriate behavior you can just have and that you can laugh the police up in the face. With what strength, then, should we act against them? You have to take care of your school, you have to do your homework, you have to go to football in B 1909, you have to get out and get an internship, you have to get a job for regular collective pay, and then you have to forget that your older cousins with big gold chains are driving around in big BMWs, and that society doesn't really act on it? Well, I think that's far, far more serious than this scarf discussion. Of course, one does not exclude the other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122656	Then I think we'll try a Social Democrat, Mr. Simpson. Dan Jørgensen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122700	Thank you for that, and much praise to the Prime Minister for that answer. I would say to the point about going to football in B 1909 that I myself am from Funen and that I may now think that OB is a more obvious choice, but peace be with it. In any case, I agree entirely with the content. I would like to say at all that today's debate has actually reflected quite a broad consensus across the political spectrum about what values are important and also a long way along the way what we have to do. There is one thing, however, where we may disagree a little, and that is in relation to the proposal put forward by my party, namely that it is not only the young boys we have to deal with that is also important but also the women who are not in the labour market. Could the Prime Minister not explain the Left's position on our proposal to simply provide them with a training order?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122748	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122750	Yes. I'm not a Funenbo myself, so I'm not getting involved in a rivalry between B 1909 and OB. But I can explain the position of the government, and it also includes my own party, the Left, and that is that people, if they are ready for the labour market, have to work. So I clearly have the point of departure that we cannot accept that women and, for that matter, men too, with different ethnic backgrounds, go around on cash benefits at home and are not part of the surrounding society if they can work. But the solution is not to send them on hygiene courses, with all due respect; the solution is to make sure that they get out to work and work with the qualifications they have, because if they are ready for work, they can also work. We are in a situation right now because it is going well in Denmark and employment is high that we have not had a lower unemployment rate for 40 years when we calculate 2 years during the overheating just before the financial crisis hit us. We have the dilemma that we are taking in more and more foreign labour, while at the same time we have people on passive support, and we can see, when we look at the cash aid couples, that people with other ethnic backgrounds are so over-represented. I don't remember all the numbers in my head, but we're talking about a figure up in the eighties, when we talk percentages, about how much of the married couples have a different ethnic background from Danish, and so they're going to work. They are not going on a hygiene course with ten others from the same settlement, but they are going to work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120122929	We agree with that. We would like them to go straight to work, and that's fine. I think that the Prime Minister has just said that many times before and that other prime ministers before him have said that for 30 years too, but what good is it to say that if you are not willing to do what it takes? We have actually introduced something similar in Denmark today, i.e. a training order for young Danes under the age of 30, which has proved to work and which I think the government supports. So why is it that it works for a group, but it won't work for this group? And then the Prime Minister can speak a little scoff about a hygiene course, but I actually used it as a pretty concrete example. Because we know that many of these immigrant women work in kitchens, and that maybe it's just that little push that needs to get them into the service industry. It could of course also be a different type of course, but it is just to say that we are not talking here about long higher education. We may be talking about shorter training, which may be what it takes to get them into the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123026	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123027	I fully agree that it is not enough to say things unless you do something about it. That is also why we are doing something about it. That's why we've created a cash aid ceiling, and that's why we've made a 225-hour rule. These are things that I didn't see would stand if the majority of this Parliament changed. I understand that in the Radical Left and to the left of it it is thought that these things should be removed. Social democracy has been opposed when we did it, and will not give any message at all whether it should be changed if you were given power, as you have been watching. So it is totally uncertain, but it is of course about doing something about it, and I would like to say quite openly that it is also borne by the fact that in the increasing number of married couples with cash benefits who have been, there is more and more an ethnic battle, in the sense that there is an increasing number of married couples who have a different ethnic background from that of Denmark, a different ethnic background from that of a Western. That is why we are hiding behind a cultural problem, and we must do something about it, and the effective way to do it is simply to set up the systems so that we, in other words also financially, motivate these couples to go into employment. That is the policy of the government, and that is the policy that would be put at risk if what is today the minority were to become a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123149	The next one is sir. René Gade from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123154	Thank you and thank you for the debate. There have been a great many good speeches today, and I do not know if I have become wiser, but at least I think I have been pleased with the very consensus that has been achieved in many situations. Every time I hear the rapporteur of the Left in this area, sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen, or the Prime Minister, for several minutes at a time, unlike when it's just short in the press, I'm always so happy because it's damn right. Gentlemen are also gathering us today from the platform. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question: although there may be disagreement about how we should do things and what policy should be pursued, could one not in the Left look back a little and then say: we will not talk so much about a tighter course, but more about an information course? For the elements that come from the Prime Minister today are that you have to understand what the underlying problem is, rather than treating only the symptoms. In other words, if we could make the position of the Danish Parliament that we will try to help each other more with it, then we can disagree on the analysis and laugh a little at each other on the left and the right. But if we just agreed on the analysis, I think we would inform the Danes and ourselves in a way that would enable us to make far better decisions and avoid this division that is.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123307	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123309	Thank you. It may be that the answer lies in this consideration that it is every time you hear us talking several minutes at a time and we are happy to do so! And the more places you can be invited to speak several minutes at a time, instead of sound bites in 15 seconds, the happier I get. It may be that the TV viewers and news reporters are getting all the more snuffy, but that's probably a condition. But there is the seriousness behind it that it is true that in such a news-saturated debate as we have in Denmark, the nuances can quickly disappear, and it is rare that there is room for more than one angle at a time. And then it's either one or the other. So allow me to stand on two feet and have two eyes open in this debate too. Yes, there are challenges, and yes, to anticipate later questions too. It is also to see that there are more problems in concrete terms with Islam than with the modern interpretation of Christianity that we have in Denmark. It's quite obvious, and it's heavy problems. But it just cannot help that we look only at it; there is also the other side of the coin that is also about people actually being Muslims and at the same time having a completely open ambition to live in a society that is actually as secular as the Danish, with all the freedoms we have. And if we only talk to one thing or talk to the other, we'll talk past the problem. That is why my own party itself went to the polls on the point of view that says: We want an open Denmark for those who can and will, but we want a closed Denmark for those who will not. Because we have to do both at the same time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123457	I think the right President would have said here that there is one minute's speaking time in the first place and then half a minute's speaking time, no matter how many nuances you miss. But that's the way it is. Here's the second question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123510	I thank you for a full answer, and I will be brief. Once again, I would like to ask about the tighter course or the tighter campaign, when we have just realised that there are very few nuances in the media, because then I also believe that one has a responsibility as a government to refrain from foisting these misunderstandings and this division does not repeatedly constitute a tighter course as something clearly good. I fully agree that there must be austerity now and here in some places, but how we do it and whether the austerity is in relation to shutting people out or informing the people and making sure they get on the right track, we can disagree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123548	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123550	Well, it is sad if it is really the parliamentary speaking time rules that mean that we do not get the nuances of the debate, but we must respect them; we have made them ourselves, and then we cannot complain that journalists want short answers. I've got 30 seconds. It's not one thing or the other, it's both and it's a repeat. I spoke to a former Islamist who has re-evaluated his view of everything and who gave me this advice: if we are going to solve this, you must do so, that you are secretly instructing the police and all the authorities to crack down on everything and put people in prison, etc., and then you must openly go out into these urban areas and reach out to the young people who really want Denmark. Because the fact that you hit hard is being abused in these environments to scare those who really want Denmark to say: you can see for yourself, they don't like us. That is good advice, except that it cannot be implemented, because there is, like the method in which we can secretly give the police increased powers to crack down on these gangsters or in secret ensure that our judicial system strikes down religious preachers who abuse our freedom of expression. That's why these tightenings have to be done in the open room. But I am very, very aware that these tightenings in the open space are also being abused in some to send this wrong signal to the young people I meet on my way, who have a different ethnic background and who want Denmark. It can't be any different. In other words, we live in an open democracy, and then we all just have a responsibility to express ourselves with nuances.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123735	Then it's mr. Claus Kvist Hansen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123738	Thank you for that and thank you for many good words from the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has referred several times here today to a visit to Vollsmose yesterday, as I understand it, and now I did not take part, but as I understand it, the Prime Minister was approached by a gangster out there who gave his hand to the Prime Minister. Of course, I do not know how the Prime Minister experienced it, but from my point of view and from the perspective of many others, it is a humiliation of the Prime Minister and a humiliation of authorities. From my point of view, it was actually the case that here we have a gang leader who goes forward and says: here I am in charge, welcome, sir. Minister, goodbye again, but I'm in charge here. Of course, I hope I'm wrong. What was the Prime Minister's experience of shaking hands with a gang leader?
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123828	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120123830	It was definitely a very unpleasant experience, which unfortunately was not clear to me in the situation, because I am neither first name nor last name with the criminals in the country, nor do I have their faces clearly before me, so I had no other experience than that there came a man and pressed my hand. And my mom raised me in the way that when people reach out and say hello, I also hand out mine and say hello. Having said that, I am somewhat in agreement with the analysis that is being made here, because that is not right. Surely it is not right that representatives of a criminalised environment in this way try to take ownership and must be the first to bid a minister here it was so I welcome in a residential area. It's not okay, and it's a symptom that something's wrong. That is why I have also expressed my regret that I did not know that it was a high-criminal I pressed my hand, because then I would not have said thank you, so I would have said what I thought of him, namely that it is totally, totally unacceptable that this kind of behaviour casts long, long shadows over a lot of children and young people in a district of Odense, which actually has the same ambition as children and young people in all sorts of other parts of Denmark, namely to take care of their school, have leisure activities, have a leisure job, learn something more, get out sometime and get a job and set up a family. That is absolutely not right, so it was certainly not a pleasant experience. Apart from the fact that in the situation I did not know it was unpleasant; it was only clear to me afterwards.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124006	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124009	Thank you. Of course, I do not blame the Prime Minister for being approached by a criminal. But it makes me think a little bit about what I spoke to Mr Half an hour ago. Mr Ellemann-Jensen, President-in-Office of the Council. - (DA) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. The situation experienced by the Prime Minister yesterday is an indication to me that there has been a slippage. I hope, of course, that in future legislation the Prime Minister will then also have the preventive aim in view rather than just the subsequent one, namely the repairing aim.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124054	The Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124056	I fully agree, and that is also why, in all the years we have had the opportunity to sit in government offices, we have tightened up on both immigration legislation, but also on justice policy and want to continue to do so. In relation to the very concrete thing here, the Minister of Justice will shortly present a gang and rocker package, which has the aim of being able to hit harder on these gangster environments. It is then, whether gangster environments are founded in something ethnically different from Danish, or whether they are bicker gangs with Danes. That needs to be put down harder. Some of the things we, among other things... will look at is our way of effectively putting through what we have already decided. We have, for example. the possibility of setting up a zone ban, and then again, because we live in a rule of law, there is a legal review of these bans and such a thing that may be difficult to get to work, just as we thought it should when we adopted it, and there we shall have to look at how we can tighten it up. Because we cannot have a system in which the police authorities of the country cannot put themselves through in the situation of criminals, because it sends a wrong signal, not only to the criminals, but also to the children and young people who are watching if, in the situation, we can do something that we cannot do free of charge and then immediately nothing happens, and then you just tear up your fine because you have a declaration of insolvency in your back pocket or something else. We have to do something about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124240	Thank you, Prime Minister. And I would say that fortunately there is no punishment for spending too much time. There is, of course, a significant difference between crime and taking the floor here. However, I would like to thank all the authors and Prime Minister for very thorough and nuanced questions and answers. Then the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Søren Espersen, asked for the word in round two. And the rapporteurs who wish to speak in the second round, we would like to hear from now on under Mr Seligman. Søren Espersen's speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124311	Thank you. It's gonna be very short. I would like to thank you for an exciting debate and, moreover, to regret the fact that, with regard to the alternative rapporteur, Mr. René Gade, as pointed out by the President, made a personal attack. That wasn't intended. It was in the heat of the fight, you might say, and I'm sorry. It's always interesting for me to listen to Mr. René Gade, and we have an extremely good relationship with each other, is my impression. So much about it. I would like to acknowledge to the Prime Minister that an effort is being made to deal with immigration in particular, as has been said. Moreover, we are also in favour of a commitment to further tightening where it is possible to do so. On the question of the religious symbols, as Mr. Martin Henriksen left, I would say that France has done so. France has created an opportunity. It may well happen that the Prime Minister is right that it doesn't necessarily move anything on the long track, but the girl who doesn't wear that veil during school hours when she's with the comrades may well be doing a huge favor. Then you have to assess whether it has an effect in addition to that. To Mrs Schmidt-Nielsen, I would just like to make a small comment. She said at one point that we have historically many people on the run now. I read the other day that at all times since 1945 there have been at least 40 million refugees around the world. I think there are 45 or 50 million now, so it is not the case that we have not had a refugee problem before. It's just been so much easier to get around than it was before. I would like to say about employment and labour market training that I think that in general there was an enormous amount of emphasis on that part of it. It's a bit trivial to give that example, but so, all the terrorists from 9/11 were well-educated and integrated in great style. No one in their associations had any idea of anything. It was the Koran who drove them to commit their crimes. That is why we should not place too much emphasis on it. Of course, it is good that people who are here permanently come to work; no one thinks that is not a good idea, but that it should avoid radicalisation, I do not think there is any justification for saying that. We are also opposed to working from day one. It is simply a wrong way, because it is just a way for many people to stay, and it has been their idea to do so. An open country is mentioned by many. That is what you want, and I would like it to be. I just want to go back to the time when it was possible to say who we want in and who we don't want in. I believe that there have been many, many things happening both within the European Community and also in what is outside it, which has made it considerably easier to get in. We should also like to send students abroad to study, and so we have done so at all times. Absalon studied at the Sorbonne in the 1100s. It was a long time before we came into the European Union and it went quite well. And since he's been there, there's been a bunker. Even from my own such not too peripheral associations I can mention three or four who, before any thought was given to the European Union, studied at the universities of Oxford and the Sorbonne, etc. And we had people here. It is being created, and I think it is a pity, a myth that we should now close ourselves in, just as we did in the past. I mentioned my wife's and many of her English friends' entry into Denmark, which went incredibly easy and painless. I lived in England for a number of years and was then to sit for three hours down at the Lunar House in Croydon, and then I was allowed to be there. It was not a great sacrifice to do so, and so it went quite well, even before the European Union's free market. But it's just a small statement. Then there's the denial. The rapporteurs here generally find it very difficult to accept that Islam is therefore a separate problem. The Prime Minister said it but not as directly as this, namely that it is clear that there are more problems with Muslim settlers than there are with all sorts of others. And there I have to say yes, that's the kind of thing I've read that for alcoholics there's a denial period where you don't want to know what's going on, but just deny that it has anything to do with alcoholism. Then there comes a realization at some point, and then you find out that maybe it's right. And after that comes the possibilities. But if we do not want to acknowledge it and if we cannot get over our lips to say that Islam is a problem in Denmark and in the Western world, then we cannot do anything in this way. It does not necessarily mean that we then throw all Muslims out of Denmark. Nobody wants that. It just needs to mean that we get a recognition of what we are dealing with and then put in there and don't spend a whole lot of energy talking about all sorts of different other things. I hope it can be resolved. No one wants it not to be solved. Sir. Jakob Ellemann-Jensen said that fear must not rule. I agree, but I would say that the denial is not allowed to govern either. We are not timid by nature in our party, we just want to do something about things in a proper way and not bust forward. Finally, I would like to say that I would have liked you to be able to support our proposal for adoption, where it actually just says, and it should be my last remark: the Danish Parliament requires... the government to make the necessary changes, where possible at first so that it will no longer be possible for public institutions to discriminate against Danes, Danish tradition and Danish culture in favour of other... cultural traditions. It's not that bad, but it didn't work out. Thanks for a good and exciting debate, and good weekend.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124943	Well, there's just one question before mr. Søren Espersen is allowed to leave the platform, namely from Mrs Johanne Schmidt-Nielsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120124950	It's not a question, it's just a comment to Mr. Knox. Søren Espersen. The UN issued a report last June stating that some 65 million people are fleeing the world. Some of them are internally displaced in their own countries and others are forced to flee from the country from which they come. It is not the case that the figure has been at such a high level for many years in a row, it is a very high number of people who are forced to flee now. So we are in a special situation. There have not been 65 million refugees in the world for many years.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120125028	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120125030	No, but if I've said the wrong number, I'm sorry. What I was really sticking to was that at no time since the Second World War there was no such thing as what I've seen in my experience has been under 40 million both externally displaced and internally displaced persons. It is in itself a huge figure which, I admit, is greater now, but the possibility of getting around has now become of such a nature that it is the problem in itself. It wasn't in 1945. You couldn't just take the plane from all sorts of places. I guess that's what's really the difference. But if I've said the wrong number, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120125106	The questioner? Then I'd like to say thank you. There is, of course, a special rule when we have had questions, and that is that the Prime Minister is entitled to the last word if he wishes. He doesn't. It is not a duty either. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. As I said, the vote on the proposals for adoption will take place only on Thursday 26 January 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170120125135	Then we have some reviews today, Friday 20 January 2017: Minister for Foreign Affairs (Anders Samuelsen): Motion for a resolution no. B 56 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on Danish military contributions to the US carrier group, including in support of the international coalition's action against ISIL in Iraq and Syria and the promotion of maritime security). Christine Antorini (S), Bruno Jerup (EL), Carolina Magdalene Maier (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Jacob Mark (SF) and others.: Question No. F 34 (What will the Minister of Education and Education and Research do to increase social mobility through education?). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above). There is no more to be done in this meeting, apart from thanking all the participants for today's work in the service of the people's regime. I want to wish everyone a good weekend. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held on Tuesday, 24 January 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 2:00 p.m. I refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website. I should also like to refer to the weekly schedule, which appears on the Danish Parliament's website.
