ParlaMint-DK_20171214100022	The meeting is open. On 11 December 2017, Høgni Hoydal (T) announced his resignation as a member of the Folketing per year. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100046	The matter entered on paragraph 17 of the agenda can only be dealt with in this sitting with the agreement of the House. Are there any comments? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100108	Are there any objections to the promotion of this request? It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100122	From the Committee on the Verification of Credentials, I have received the recommendation that the First Deputy of Tjóðveldi in the Faroe Islands, Magni Arge, be approved as an ordinary member of the Folketing as from 11 December 2017, when Høgni Hoydal resigned his mandate. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100148	The committee's recommendation shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. The Committee's recommendation was adopted unanimously by 106 votes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100215	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100233	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 82 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 23 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100310	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100323	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100356	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100411	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 83 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 22 (DF), abstention 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100444	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100501	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 96 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), against 9 (EL), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100532	The debate is primarily about the proposed amendment. Anybody want to make a statement? As this is not the case, the debate on the amendment is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100552	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 of a minority (DF), joined by a minority (V, LA, RV and KF), which together constitutes a majority? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100610	The negotiations then concern the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100617	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on. Is everyone safe? At least the vote is now over. In favour of voting 89 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100709	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100727	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100758	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100815	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 86 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF) voted against 19 (EL, ALT and SF) abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100853	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100905	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 104 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF). The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100932	No amendments have been tabled. Sir. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten, has asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214100950	First of all, I apologise for the high point that I promised something I didn't keep, namely to let you know why we were in doubt about this proposal at second reading. I did not get that done, but now the government has created us the fine situation that we have really, very good time here before Christmas with lots of hours in the Chamber where we can discuss politics, and thank you for that. I would say that we had a problem about a year ago with regard to this crown millenium scheme in the Danish Labour Inspectorate, a scheme which made us believe that we had appointed the elite in the Danish working environment, i.e. approx. 4,000 companies that had certification and got the kronsmiley. The clock won't tick over here, President. I don't know what's wrong, so I don't know how time goes, but then I'll talk until I'm stopped. Turns out the elite is failing. The 4,000 companies do not have an average better working environment than the companies that do not have the certification. The Minister says that I should not say that they are inferior, because we do not know anything about that. It is probably worse because we have had an illusion that the Factory Inspectorate should drive past the elite companies, which had a crown-smiley scheme. We discovered this in Aalborg with the great scandal of the windmill factory and the fiberglass factory, where there were huge problems and many work injuries. In fact, we should then scrap the crown smiley scheme, as it gives illusions, but we have not been able to agree on that. On the other hand, the Minister, together with a majority, has made up the scheme so that it can make some improvements, but we are continuing with a system that does not solve the problem. This is what has made me, as an old health and safety activist, but also as a professional worker with working conditions for more than 25 years, think that this work is an enormously bad job. We have written in our comments on the proposal that there are improvements in the proposal, but we retain the illusion. Then I can say to the Minister: our principle is that if there is a deterioration in it, we will lead with light and light, and if there are improvements, even the slightest improvement, we will vote in favour. That is why we are voting in favour of this proposal, but we are not happy to do so, and we are doing so in recognition of the fact that we have not solved the problem that we encountered last year. So if anyone thinks that now they've helped solve the problem, then they think wrong. In fact, we still have a major problem ahead of us, and I expect that we can have an opportunity to evaluate this scheme because the certification system and the elite-smiley scheme are a system in which we have a high risk. The reason we finally said okay to that is that 500 of these companies have been selected for special supervision by the Labour Inspectorate, that is 500 out of the 4,000. Actually, they all had to be looked at carefully, for they haven't been for many years. I think it is an advantage to look at them, and then we will have to see what the 500 reports provide of knowledge, and then we will have to see if we can take a little harder on the Minister. In any case, it has not succeeded enough in moving him in this context, but we are voting in favour of the small improvements in the proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101311	Thank you to the rapporteur. Is there anyone else who wants to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101321	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For voting 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF). The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101353	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101415	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 92 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 13 (EL and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101449	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101501	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101528	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101547	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour of 90 (S, DF, V, LA, RV, SF and KF), against 15 (EL and ALT), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101617	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101644	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 105 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against 0, abstentions 0. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101713	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101733	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour 91 (S, DF, V, LA, ALT, RV and KF) voted against 9 (EL), abstained 4 (SF). The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101806	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101826	The final adoption of the draft law shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. In favour, 106 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. The bill has been passed unanimously and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101851	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101916	The final adoption of the proposal shall be put to the vote. The vote is over. For the vote 22 (DF), against 82 (S, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF), abstentions 0. The motion for a resolution has been rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214101947	Does anyone wish to speak? There isn't. The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102014	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102030	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102108	Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102125	Thank you. There is a little doubt and a little uncertainty about the submission of the report, which is why I would ask that we suspend the debate so that we can deal with the matter properly in committee.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102144	There's now Mr. Knox. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left, proposed that the debate on L 41 be suspended and that the proposal be referred back to committee. The debate on interruptions shall take place in accordance with the rules for short remarks so that a member of each group may speak in favour or against interruption. Does anyone wish to speak? That is not the case. Since no one has requested a vote, I propose that the matter be stopped and that the proposal be referred back to committee. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102239	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102316	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-11 member of the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102417	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102456	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102531	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102552	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1 and 2 elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102608	Does anyone wish to speak? Since that is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102634	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for the work he has done on this subject. Amendment No 3 was accepted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection approved Amendment No 4 by a majority of the Committee with the exception of the Enhedslisten and the Alternative, or Amendment No 4. 5-7, elected by the Committee? It's agreed. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102710	The debate is open, and that is the Minister for Industry. Hello, sir. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214102746	Thank you for awakening me (Laughter We are discussing today B 10, tabled by Enhedslisten, Alternativet og SF. The proposers want a special supervisory authority, for example, under: The Competition and Consumer Authority must assess the reasons why the contribution rate is increased. Only additional capital requirements or losses on loans shall be considered as special reasons for an increase in contribution rates. In addition, it is proposed that the supervisory authorities check whether the level of the contribution rate is in line with the additional capital requirement. Finally, it is proposed that the independent supervisory authority should ensure that the contribution rate is reduced once capital requirements are met. It is my opinion that in practice the proposal will act as a price cap on the credit institutions' contribution rates. I am, and this is hardly surprising, in principle opposed to price regulation such as the one proposed with B 10. I also consider that the proposal may restrict competition in the mortgage lending market, as institutions may choose to compensate for a de facto ceiling on the contribution rates by, for example, credit institutions. to increase the fees for the creation and redemption of loans. This will hamper mobility in the mortgage lending market, as changing institutions will be more expensive. These ideas are reflected in the political agreement on transparency and mobility in the mortgage market concluded in January of this year. We agreed to impose restrictions on what institutions may collect in connection with the repayment of loans during the warning period by announced increases in contribution rates. Contrary to the proposal we are discussing today, the political agreement therefore contributes to promoting mobility by reducing shift costs. Increased mobility helps to ensure that the rates of contributions do not increase unnecessarily. Also, in the interests of financial stability of borrowers' interest rates, it is inappropriate to impose restrictions on institutions' ability to adjust current earnings. This is something that is emphasised and investors' confidence in mortgage banks and their bond issues is greatest when institutions can act according to market conditions. In a situation like this, for example. sudden increase in loss levels, where institutions need to rapidly increase revenue, it is inappropriate that there may be doubts in the market as to whether the institution is authorised by the authorities to increase revenue. Uncertainty about the ability to adjust earnings provides a less secure mortgage system and lower investor confidence. Lower investor confidence can result in higher interest rates for homeowners. In my view, therefore, limiting the scope for adjusting the contribution rates would not be in the interest of the borrowers as a whole. Finally, I would also like to point out that the Chairman of the Competition Council, Professor Christian Schultz, has stated in a hearing on competition in the mortgage lending market in the Committee on Business, Growth and Export on 26 September that it is a bad idea to introduce regulatory controls on mortgage prices, and I fully agree with him on this. I believe that we have done a great deal to increase transparency and mobility in the mortgage market, and I would like to mention a few examples. We have made it cheaper to repay mortgage loans when increases in contributions are predicted; we have ensured that financial consequences for institutions can arise if they do not adequately justify their increase in contributions; we have made it possible to move mortgages, even if the loan limit of the loan has been exceeded, so that the borrower is not tied to a particular credit institution. We are also following up the Competition Council's recommendations to create an even more competitive mortgage market. In view of this, the Government cannot support the proposal and believes that the resolution should be rejected.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103129	Thank you, Minister. First, sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103141	Thank you so much. After all, this is a very serious matter, which is about the fact that many Danish homeowners have experienced some very sharp increases in their current expenditure, which have had a severe impact on their economic space in recent years. I know, of course, that when it comes to taxes, the Minister has been very concerned about keeping the expenses of the homeowners in order, because it is important for a family to know that you can sit in the house that you have once sat down in. We in the Enhedslist agree entirely with that. The problem is that this family cannot be sure of this with the explosion we have seen in the rates of fees and contributions, and that is why we are making this proposal. Unfortunately, we can see that this increase continues. Now the Minister specifically rejects this proposal, but there has been a report by the Competition Council in the autumn, and we have had the wise men who have had a proposal which in a sense resembles the Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF, namely that a ceiling was set on all charges other than the contribution rate, so that at least one central competitive parameter was provided which was transparent. That is why I would really like to hear from the Minister how the government feels about the other proposals. I do not think you can be familiar with Danish homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103256	Here you go. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103258	It is true that the Competition Council has made a number of recommendations. I think there are a great many good recommendations among them, and we are looking at which of them we will implement, including in the financial conciliation circle. We in the conciliation circle agree to implement most of them. We see within the framework of EU regulation which of them can be implemented, and if they can, I am very positive about it. For the more and there I fully agree with the questioner we can ensure transparency and transparency, and the more we can ensure consumers, that is. The customers in this case, the more we have to do it. That is why we intend to follow up on the Competition Council's recommendations.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103338	Thank you. Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103340	Thank you. The second part of the question concerns the autumn report of the economic wise, in which they very much, for the same reason as the proposers of this proposal, go in and say that we need to use more drastic means. Because it seems that this competition does not work and that Danish homeowners are too much economic dairy cattle for the banks in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103403	Thank you. The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103405	A number of measures have been taken to increase transparency and more competition in this area. Basically, I believe that transparency and competition help to ensure that as a homeowner you can change loans more easily, you can get loans more easily, but also that you know that there are price differences. Because there are real price differences today. That is why I can only call on you as a family to look at where it is cheapest when you have to go through such a big decision as to take a mortgage or change a mortgage. Because you can save a lot of money if you go in and compare the different products and rates of contributions.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103444	Thank you. Then we move on to the rapporteur's line. It's sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103455	The Danish mortgage is one of the world's cheapest forms of housing financing, and it is this form of financing that ensures that many families who do not have millions of kroner on the bank book can nevertheless realise the dream of their own house. From a political point of view, it is important that we keep an eye on the proper functioning of the mortgage credit system. After all, in spring 2016, we saw how a number of mortgage institutions announced significant increases in mortgage contribution rates. It gave rise to a particularly welcome debate on how institutions and banks should act if the borrower suddenly has to pay more for his loan. Since then, a committee of experts has first looked at the possibilities of strengthening transparency and mobility in the mortgage market. The Committee of Experts made a number of sensible recommendations for necessary adjustments to the rules, and we have made a political settlement on them. We have also made legislation and it has entered into force. It is still too early to assess the impact of the new legislation, but I expect it to contribute to more transparency and to more borrowers switching because it has become cheaper to change mortgages. Since then, the Competition Authority has also made a report with recommendations to us business rapporteurs, and we are looking at these in the financial conciliation circle in order to make the legislation even better for future as well as present home owners. This motion for a resolution we are debating today aims to keep down the price of housing loans as a general rule. That sounds really, really sympathetic. However, the proposal moves on to what we have already agreed with the government, the Radical Left, the Danish People's Party and the Socialist People's Party, and which the alternative has since also joined. What we have already made legislation about is that banks and mortgage banks should explain to the borrower much more concretely and transparently any price increases on the rates of contributions, interest rates and charges. The institution's warning of changes in contributions, interest rate supplements and charges shall be justified and shall justify the circumstances that have triggered the increase. In addition, institutions and banks shall explain the main factors affecting the extent of the change, as well as the estimated proportion of the overall increase. Price increases in contributions and interest rate supplements may only be implemented if they are duly justified. The FSA is in charge of checking the reasons. If the forecast increases in contributions and other price increases have not been announced in accordance with the rules, they cannot enter into force. In other words, we have already adopted legislation to resolve the problem of excessive price increases. Our position is therefore that we do not believe that there is any evidence at this stage to move forward with new measures in this sub-area of housing funding. If, at a later stage, we consider that new initiatives are needed, we will go constructively to those parties in the financial conciliation circle with which we have so far concluded very good agreements on contributions rates and housing funding. Social democracy cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that we have of course noted the Basel IV padding requirements that have immediately been withdrawn. There, of course, we will encourage the government to and support the government in continuing to fight for lower requirements for the Danish mortgage credit institutions, because our special Danish mortgage model does not have so many losses that it can mean as violent padding requirements as it has been proposed so far in Basel IV. Then I would also like to add, finally, that it is our clear expectation that mortgage credit institutions will have the opportunity to lower contributions and interest rate supplements once they have built up sufficient capital and reserves in proportion to the agreed and expected padding requirements that will come in the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103848	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is a brief comment. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214103852	I would really like to ask the Socialist rapporteur something a little more in principle, because the Socialists themselves come out of a long tradition. Now, unfortunately, some of it has ended with the sale of Alka Insurance, but a long tradition for common-owned, customer-owned cooperatives, which have been the basis for keeping prices down. The Danish mortgage sector is out of the same tradition. It was customer-owned companies which were designed to secure borrowers the cheapest possible loans, and no one had to make money from it. So you skipped this parasitic link, you might say. The regulation we have today comes from the time when we had the system where no one was interested in using the landowners as economic dairy cattle because they own the mortgage banks themselves. They no longer do so, and every year we see billions of kroner being taken straight out of the pockets of the homeowners and ending up at the banks' auctioneers. That is why we are making this proposal. Therefore, I would like to hear from the Socialist rapporteur in principle: should we not, now that ownership has changed completely in the sector, completely change the way we regulate the area?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104002	Here you go. Then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104003	Thank you. I think that we should look at what the end result for Danish homeowners is. We have seen in recent years that interest rates are extremely low and, at the same time, we have seen that some rates of contribution have risen slightly. If you do a time analysis of what the total cost for Danish residential borrowers has been, it will show that in Denmark we still have the world's cheapest housing financing system. Although there have been some structural changes around the end of the 1980s in this area, where something about ownership has been changed - as happened during Schlüter - we have in a broad circle in here continuously made an adaptation of the legislation, which means that if we see that there are any problems in relation to the expenses of the property owners, then we go in and react. After all, this is what we have done in the financial conciliation circle, by adopting a new regulation here before the summer holidays in 2017 to ensure that it is justified if there are to be increases in contributions rates, and if that justification is not good enough, the increase cannot enter into force against the landowners. I think that is sensible legislation, which I hope will work very, very well. Should it turn out that it does not work as intended, I will take it up constructively with the Minister and the other financial conciliation groups, so that we can look at how we should do it to ensure that the homeowners are not milked, as the rapporteur says.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104121	Thank you. Sir. Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104123	However, the rapporteur basically believes that the model that has been developed and which, unfortunately, will probably be even more advanced now that Nykredit is inviting external investors, who expect, as far as I could see, a return on equity of 14 to 18 per cent. Has it been a beneficial development that over recent decades a cooperative mortgage system has been transformed, unfortunately now with the latest developments with Nykredit, which has still been a bulwark against this exploitation of Danish property owners?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104203	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104204	I'm not so interested in looking at the systems that are behind it. I am actually most interested in looking at what it is that you as a mortgage borrower come out with, and it is that in Denmark we still have one of the world's cheapest housing financing systems. We can see that now if we analyse how interest rates, contributions rates and such things have developed. It is still gone super, super cheap, and there are very, very many Danes who have great, great benefits from the system we have. So I do not really see any reason why we should go in to bring it back to the time before 1989 when this legislative amendment came. So let's see. I am quite sure that the legislation we have adopted will help ensure that the rates of contributions are kept at a more reasonable level, and at least the institutions must explain themselves very, very well if they want them to come into force.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104249	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104251	Thank you to the rapporteur. The rapporteur is now constantly aware that we are one of the cheapest countries in the world to borrow money for homeowners, and I agree with that. But that is not a reason to say that we should not ensure that there are homeowners out there, who get these rate increases, and that means that even if they have a fixed-rate loan, they cannot predict what their loans will be like. Does the rapporteur not agree that the original model from before 1989 made sure that, in relation to the entire mortgage credit institution, it also went to the homeowners, in other words that the focus was the homeowners, and that it can now be said that there are others who do not necessarily foresee how their contribution rates should be? Is the rapporteur not interested in putting this ceiling so that the landowners always know what they are dealing with?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104350	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104351	I am interested that we have a healthy sector that can lend to the Danes, and to the extent that you can grant these loans to the Danes, where you have to get the money somewhere and fund it on a capital market, it also requires that we have a free price formation on the market. This is what this resolution really wants to do, and the Social Democrats have no interest in doing so. We would rather ensure that if it is the case that some mortgage institutions want to raise the rates of contributions, then they should explain why, and if they cannot explain themselves well enough, the increases in contributions cannot enter into force. And in cases where there are some customers who have been correctly explained about the increases and who think hoof, here they no longer want their housing funding, we have made it cheaper with the latest legislation to change to another mortgage institution. So, in this way, I think that we have actually accepted a large part of the criticism that has been made, and I also believe that, when the legislation is allowed to work seriously, we will see that it will, I hope, work as intended.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104457	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104458	Then I would like to ask the Social Democrats about the recommendations that have now emerged from the Competition Council and something like that. Is that something that the Social Democratic Party will take a positive view of if the Social Democratic Party acquires the power of government after a forthcoming election?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104509	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104510	Now it's hard to know when that parliamentary election will come. However, if it is the case that the government is going through the Christmas season, then I am quite sure that we will meet again in the financial conciliation group of the Minister here in the new year, when we will continue to work constructively with the recommendations that have been made and that the Social Democrats can support the vast majority of them. We just need to check whether it can stay within EU regulation as well. But otherwise we are positive towards the vast majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104535	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Kristian Skibby, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214104547	On behalf of the Danish People's Party, I would like to thank the authors of the motion for a resolution for having the opportunity today to discuss something that I am certainly aware of has filled a great deal in the public debate. And this is also something on which we business rapporteurs and others have been asked a great deal, namely the situation in which we have seen such a continuous and continuous increase in contributions over recent years. At the same time, there has also been a break with the current price cut, i.e. how much has been taken from credit institutions in the context of the restructuring of short-term mortgage loans. The proposers have a proposal which I think contains many of the elements that the Danish People's Party has also called for in connection with the discussion that has taken place about the supervision and continuation of rules on mortgage lending within the institutions. However, there are some of the elements that we are not so happy about, and I think I should start with them. It is, among other things. that the proposers also say that we must monitor that the rates of contributions are being reduced again, and that means, in my view, that we are advocating that there should be both rules on this and that we should be able to impose a reduction in the rates of contributions. Similarly, there is also the discussion about whether there should be minimum and maximum rates in relation to the interest rate on bonds. We in the Danish People's Party believe that this is going too far. What we have called for, and for which we continue to advocate, is that when customers in mortgage credit institutions receive a warning letter that their contribution rate should increase and that their price cut should increase, then it should get through a detector test at the FSA. I know that the proposers propose that it should be the Competition and Consumer Authority that should deal with it. We in the Danish People's Party think that the right place to place such a supervisory authority is of course with the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority. This is also the result of the mortgage agreement concluded between a number of parties of the Danish Parliament earlier in 2017. It does not say, however, that you should say that you can ask for information. There is therefore the fact that the Danish People's Party would very much like us to do it in such a way that when there are these warnings of contribution rate increases, the FSA will have to do a detector test to assess whether the reasons and reasons for the increases are increased capital requirements, whether it is Basel requirements, whether it is floor requirements, whether it is increased guarantee capital, whether it is a lack of adequate funding, or whether it is proof that it is the choice to secure a higher return rate and to return the money to shareholders who own the mortgage banks. Those things then have the possibility of being able to verify, clarify, etc. in such a test. We think it would be quite appropriate if it were to be implemented, and this is kind of in line with the motion for a resolution here. We cannot support the resolution itself, but we can support the fact that the FSA will have a shell provision and not a can clause as it is today. This also means, of course, that we will not change the fact that the rates of contributions can rise and that they can also fall, but it is not something that we think we can legislate on with minimum and maximum limits. In our view, this will mean that there is a risk that there will be less investor confidence in Danish bonds. It may well be that we can then ensure that consumers receive lower rates of contributions, but in return they will have a higher interest rate on their loans when, for example, they have to be redirected. These should be the words of the Danish People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105004	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105007	Thank you for that and also thank you for the support for some of the intentions of the proposal. First, just a clarification: we are not proposing price ceilings and we are not proposing minimum and maximum limits. What we are proposing is that, if the banks, the mortgage, justify raising the rates of contributions by padding them, then it is also natural that, once that padding has been completed, if the authorisation is granted, it should also be reduced again. It simply follows, otherwise they will have to justify it differently. Then I find it very interesting that Dansk Folkeparti has a concrete proposal for a "skal" clause, which should be with the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority, in relation to when the contribution rates increase. We would very much like to take a look at this, possibly in a joint report in committee. So I hope the rapporteur will take the initiative on this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105052	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105054	Thank you. The last point raised by the rapporteur is clearly the policy of the Danish People's Party. That is something we have said here in the Parliament's Chair in the past, and it is also something that we of course think today. The reason why I mention this here with the maximum and minimum in relation to the rates of contributions is, of course, that in the written submission of the motion for a resolution, which Mr. Pelle Dragsted himself is a co-sponsor, says: "Finally, supervision must also ensure that the contribution rate is reduced again when the capital requirement is met. I therefore read in the course of the debate that there will be requirements, at least from the authors of the motion for a resolution, as to how this should be implemented. I can't really read it any other way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105136	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105138	Well, it's clear that if you, from the authority's point of view, could also apply to what this detector test or "must" clause gives, it says that this is an objective reason for raising the contribution rates, i.e. for example. The fact that you have to be upholstered naturally follows that once that padding has been carried out, there is no longer any factual justification for continuing high rates of contributions. The natural consequence must then also be that the contribution rates will then fall again, also in the Danish People's Party's proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105206	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105207	It is not with the same approach to it. We are not in favour of this being a legislative regulation which ensures maximum and minimum, in relation to what we believe should be as contribution rates in Denmark. It must therefore be in a free and operational liberal market, as it is today. We are not in favour of it being regulated in detail by the state, and that is probably where we do not go quite as far as Enhedslisten wants in relation to this. So what we just want is for there to be a situation in which all alerts on contribution rates will be included in a detector test so that we can get a picture and text on what these are actually for some reasons that the individual mortgage credit institutions are experiencing as a need for greater revenue.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105255	Thank you. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105258	I would also like to sign and thank the Danish People's Party for its positive feedback on parts of the resolution, and I also think it sounds really interesting to have this detector test. But I must also bear in mind that we are not proposing maximum and minimum rates, as the rapporteur repeated, after Mr Beazley's report. Pelle Dragsted had taken the floor. I'd like to put that down once and for all. What we are saying is that if the mortgage credit institution has been properly upholstered, that is padded enough to the extent that they are allowed, when the contributions have been increased to do so, then we would like to be able to reduce the contribution rates again; that is what we think is reasonable, because then there is no reason why the contribution rates have continued to be increased. Does the rapporteur not agree with that approach?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105341	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105342	The rapporteur agrees with the approach that every time there is an increase in the rate of contribution, it is necessary to examine whether there is a reason for it which is within the scope of increased capital requirements, or whether it is a desire to obtain an additional return on the capital invested in the mortgage credit institution by the owner company. However, I would like to point out that, when I read what is written in the motion for a resolution by the authors of the motion for a resolution, I note that it says that it wants supervision to ensure that the rates of contributions are reduced again. And that is the same thing as interfering in whether the contribution rate is too high or too low, and I can only read it as if it should be a law to regulate it, and we simply cannot accept it.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105431	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105432	I don't think we could have written it any clearer. We write that in cases where a factual justification is used in the context of an increase in the contribution rates, the supervisory authority must approve the increase in the contribution rate. And then we write that they must at the same time ensure that the contribution rates are reduced again when the capital requirement is met. • So we do not propose maximum or minimum contributions rates. I have to keep that from here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105458	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105459	Then I have to conclude that we haven't learned the same thing when we went to school. Now I know that Mrs Josephine Fock has gone to Nørre-Snede School, I think, and I myself went to Rask Mølle School they are not so far apart, but apparently we have not gone through the same Danish education. I clearly read the comment that is made here, namely that we must ensure that the rates of contributions are reduced, and that is the same as saying that we will legislate on the maximum and minimum rates of contributions. The Danish People's Party cannot support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105528	Thank you. Then we move on in the rapporteur's line to Mr Seligman. Torsten Schack Pedersen, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214105535	The Enhedslisten, the Alternative and the SF's motion for a resolution will require the government to put forward necessary legislative proposals to introduce stricter supervision of the reasons for raising the contribution rates of money and mortgage institutions. In addition, the parties wish to establish a special supervisory authority which will in future assess the proportionality of the reasons for higher contribution rates. In the Left we believe that the Danish mortgage model is quite unique and that it is crucial for many Danes to be able to afford to buy and buy a home, because with a low interest rate and high security, many Danes are able to redeem their home dreams and buy a home through access to cheap mortgages that ensure a stable and long financing. It is a mortgage system that we must protect and protect, because I do not believe that there is any country that can show up a mortgage system that guarantees the property owners the cheap financing of their housing purchases, as Denmark does. The best way to ensure that this continues to apply is, of course, to ensure that there is strong competition and great transparency in the market. This is the very best way to ensure low prices for consumers. Whether in the case of mortgage loans or in the case of goods you buy everywhere else, it is the competition that ensures the sharpest price for the benefit of consumers and the most skilled supplier, which can thus win the consumer's favor. In the same way, it is also with mortgages. That is also the reason why we have already taken a number of initiatives in this area, even with the support of one of the parties that is the proposer. Earlier this year, we from the Left, together with the other government parties and the Danish People's Party, the Radical Left and the SF concluded the agreement on increased transparency and mobility in the mortgage market. It basically ensures that we strengthen competition and transparency so that consumers have a better choice. It ensures that mortgage credit institutions and financial institutions have to justify their price increases in relation, for example, to increased contribution rates, including the conditions that have triggered the increase. In addition, they shall explain the main factors which have affected the extent of the change. This means that we have made greater demands on the reasons given to customers when there are increases in contributions, interest rates or charges on loans. This helps to strengthen transparency and thus also strengthen competition in the market. The agreement also ensures that the warning period to be observed by mortgage credit institutions in the event of an increase in contribution rates is increased to 6 months. There is also a guarantee that the reasons behind the increases will keep water, because if they do not, there is in fact an opportunity for them to be financially sanctioned. This provides good incentives to comply with the rules. So I think we have made a quite reasonable agreement in the field of mortgage credit, which ensures greater competition and more transparency, and thus a market in which consumers are stronger. At the same time, as we have already mentioned in the debate, the Competition Council's report and 16 recommendations from August are on the table. We have had the first discussion in the financial conciliation circle, and many of the proposals are broadly supported. Some of these things have already been done, while others are looking into how they can be put into practice, but that is all in order to strengthen competition, because it is the best way to ensure low prices for consumers. That is what we think is essential. I would say, and this is also reflected in the debate, that from some of the authors of the motion there is an unwillingness to have someone who can make money, so it is not fair that you can make money by offering mortgages, and it is not fair if a company wants to increase prices in order to make more money. It is explicit that this cannot be a valid justification. It is fair enough to have the approach that you should not make money. I think that is just a • and that reflects the debate too, because who should assess what is right in relation to prices? How much must they be raised, to what must they not be raised, and what should happen when a given condition has occurred? It is much, much stronger to give the answer to consumers that we ensure that there is effective competition and that there is transparency so that consumers and competition keep prices as sharp as possible. That is the principle that we generally hail from the Left, and I think that, in fact, there are a lot of people who benefit from every day when they act as consumers. That is also what we have sought to increase with the agreement we have made about strengthening transparency, mobility and competition in the mortgage market.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110053	Thank you. Then it's mr. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110055	This is a very funny debate because it also says something about how a party like the Left has developed over the last century in reality. For the Left is, of course, about something born out of the cooperative movement, the cooperative idea that one could thus free oneself from some expensive, one could also call them parasitic layers, by owning things together, precisely because there was no outsider who would make money on it and thus be able to keep prices down for ordinary people, in the case of the Left mainly the rural population. This was the way the Danish mortgage system worked for 150, almost 200 years until a few years ago. And it still works in part because we still have a single institute, Nykredit, which has that ownership structure. But it's going away. That is why I am a little surprised that you are so nonchalant on the Left when you talk about values that you celebrate. Isn't the cooperative idea, the idea of common ownership for ordinary Danes, privatemen, at all part of the Left's value base anymore?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110203	Thank you. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110204	Yes, of course it is. It would be strange to claim otherwise as a Leftman. But I'm just dealing with the proposal. And I have to say that this is a bad answer for homeowners, because there is a risk of creating an uncertainty in relation to the stability and confidence in the mortgage market. And then there is the real fact that it may risk putting itself in the price of bonds and thus an increase in interest rates to the disadvantage of the homeowners. And that is really what is at the heart here: how do we ensure that our mortgage market is regulated so that the property owners are in the best possible position? And our answer is that we are strengthening the competition, and I am very pleased that a very broad majority in the Folketing has reached an agreement on that earlier this year.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110249	Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110251	Unfortunately, what has created uncertainty for Danish home owners is the changed ownership structure, which has meant that we have seen a huge, significant increase, as the wise men also call it, in the contribution rates, which has meant that there are families who find it difficult to stay in the housing they have bought, even with a fixed-rate loan. That is what creates uncertainty for homeowners, and that is the uncertainty we are trying to address here. I would just like to conclude by asking: what is the rapporteur's position when the wise men, who have been appointed to advise, among other things. We, in their recent report, talk about the possibility that there may be a need to intervene in price formation by setting a ceiling on a number of the fees that exist in the field of mortgage credit?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110331	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110331-2	I think the best answer, not just in this discussion, but in a great many discussions, is that we have a great responsibility in this place to ensure that competition is as strong as possible, because it is the best safeguard against something becoming too expensive. Because if competition is strong, there are no companies that can make too much money then you will be challenged and competitors will sharpen prices. That is why I am very concerned that we are strengthening competition and that has been the whole idea behind the agreement we have made. That is also why, in the financial conciliation circle, we have the recommendations which the Competition Council has made and which, among other things, have been made. That is also the purpose of the report. I think that is proof of our concern to strengthen competition, because that is the best answer for consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110421	Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110424	I think there are at least two discussions in this debate. One is how you wanted mortgages to be, and I believe that both Enhedslisten and I agree, namely that you wanted it to be as before 1989, that is to say that you looked at risk and allowed it to be reflected in costs and interest rates, but otherwise it was a common project that should not actually give profit to others. That is the one discussion, and I understand that the Left is not concerned about it. The second is this, with fair competition and trust. Sir. Torsten Schack Pedersen has just said that there is confidence in the mortgage, but I think that the whole debate we have had for the last 18 months reflects the lack of confidence among the population, because there are four mastodons and there is not very good competition, and you see the rates of contributions rising for no reason, and they cannot see why, because it is not possible to padded themselves. The main part of it goes on to the parent company and comes out as dividends etc. Then Mr. Torsten Schack, that there is confidence, first of all, and secondly, does he believe that the measures that have been taken will give the necessary competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110541	It is precisely because there was a sharp increase in the contribution rate in the past that we took a number of initiatives. A group of experts was set up which made a number of recommendations that we have acted on. I understand that as a homeowner you were frustrated when they announced increases in contributions, because you did not get a proper explanation, but we have made rules on that, so you get a better explanation than you did in the past. We have taken initiatives to control competition, because people did not feel they had a real opportunity to move their mortgages if their own institute raised prices. We have taken that on board, which is why we have acted on the basis of it, and after all it must also be an agreement that SF believes has an effect, otherwise SF would not have been part of it. And it has the clear aim of strengthening competition and thus helping to push prices, and that is how we ensure the best way for homeowners, while at the same time having a regulatory setup around our mortgage, which also means that those buying mortgage bonds, investors, have confidence that it is a secure investment and thus that the interest rate will be as low as possible for the benefit of homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110649	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110652	Thank you. Well, I clearly think that the agreement that was made was a good step forward. I fully agree with Mr Seligman on this point. Torsten Schack Pedersen in, but I just don't see how it will solve the competition problem that is when it is so difficult to enter the market as new and when the market is dominated by four major players. Let me ask another question: will the rapporteur agree that, if it has not changed very much in a year's time, we shall of course have to look into whether there are other things that need to be screwed up in order to ensure proper competition?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110734	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110734-2	I think it is a very good idea to follow up on the changes we make in here, so that it will also have the expected effects that we expect. And I agree that it is probably difficult to make an inventory here today and say that now we have the full overview of the consequences of the changes we have made earlier this year. As I said, there is also work in progress, where SF is also involved, in the financial conciliation area, where we follow up on the recommendations of the Competition Council. So, of course, this is something we follow closely. We have completed part of the work and we are in the process of doing the next thing, because of course we are concerned that competition is best possible.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110811	Thank you, Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110814	Thank you. I stumbled over the fact that the rapporteur said in his speech that the parties behind the resolution here were opposed to anyone making money. And as far as the alternative is concerned, I can say that we are certainly not opposed to that. However, it is interesting that we are dealing with an institution, the mortgage banks, which have changed from being completely cooperative, where mortgage institutions were in fact just an intermediary between the lender and the borrower and thus ensured that they could get as cheap housing loans as possible to be no more suddenly. Now there are some shareholders who must have the profits, and I would really like to ask whether the rapporteur from the Left does not at all welcome the cooperative approach in the field of mortgage credit.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110902	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214110905	I think it is rather a pity that a discussion which concerns people's economy right now and here should be traced back to whether a decision from some time in the 1980s was right and whether one could just make it go away. I seriously do not even think the alternative will be different. I am a great supporter of the cooperative approach, and when an association-owned company says that now they have to do something else, it would be strange if one were to say that they should not. There have been various structures, and I am quite sure those responsible have made the right decision on this. But there is a reason why I say that it is a resistance to making money that lies behind it. The motion for a resolution says: 'A desire for increased earnings for the ownership of the company is therefore not an objective reason for raising the contribution rates. There I just have to say that this is not the approach I have, that is to say that we in the Danish Parliament must ban it if some people believe that they can raise the prices of their product in order to make more money. We must ensure that competition is so fierce that if someone puts the price above what the market can bear, then consumers move over there and then you are left with high prices and no customers. That is, in fact, the best answer, rather than something as price-controllable as the one contained in the proposal here.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111026	Thank you. Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111028	But then the rapporteur completely rejects the cooperative approach. Because it is precisely the intention that if there is a large surplus, we should be able to reduce the contribution rates. And what we then say in our resolution is that if there is no objective justification for raising the contribution rates, then we should not do so. And if there is an objective reason for raising them, one should be able to put them down when the factual justification does not exist anymore. And I think it's interesting that the Left is totally renouncing the cooperative thinking in this way here. For the rapporteur says that if there is a surplus, it is fine that it goes just to the shareholders, and so the landowners have to sail their own lake and just change company. That is more of a comment.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111112	Here you go. The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111113	So I find it hard to see how I in any way renounce a cooperative thought which lies in the DNA of my party. I am just dealing with the reality and the proposal that has been put forward here. And if you are going to follow the proposers, then there must be supervision that says: you must not raise prices so much, because we do not think it is a legitimate reason to raise prices that you want to make more money. And I just have to say that it is violent if it is to be the case that free price formation is not present. What we need to do to ensure that there are as low prices as possible for Danish homeowners is to ensure that competition is sharp. Because this helps to ensure that there is a struggle for customers, that the rates of contributions are low and that cheap mortgage financing remains available.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111158	Thank you. There are no further comments. Sir. Joachim B. Olsen, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111207	I do not know how much more I have to add than what my honourable colleagues have already said about the resolution. I would just like to say that we probably have the lowest housing funding in the world in Denmark, and that is not quite the impression that you get when you follow the debate on the rates of contributions. In these years it is even historically cheap to borrow housing finance. This is because interest rates are historically low and, although it is true that the rates of contributions have increased in recent years, there are also good reasons for this. First of all, the mortgage sector, together with the other financial sector, has met with increasing capital requirements. That means attracting some capital, and that capital must of course be remunerated, because those who have to invest capital have all sorts of alternative means of putting that capital and getting a return out of it. And it is really, really important for home owners that mortgage banks can attract that capital. After all, this helps to ensure credibility and stability of mortgage banks, and it helps to keep interest rates down. It can be said that it would be remarkable if there were such excess earnings in the mortgage sector in Denmark, because then it would come in with banks and foreign mortgage institutions etc., because they would then be able to make a whole lot of money in Denmark. But it doesn't really happen, and it must be wondering, also on the left, that it doesn't happen, that is, if there was this supernormal earnings in Denmark. It should perhaps make the left stop and think that it is probably not the case that competition is completely out of the question and that it is probably not the case that there is a totally excessive income in Denmark in the mortgage market. I think it is remarkable that the chairman of the Competition Council himself has rejected the fact that the Competition Council should be in a position to set the contribution rates in such a way. When I hear the Left arguing in favour of the resolution, I would say that I think that many intuitively think that this sounds reasonable. Imagine if you could fix prices from a central point of view. Then citizens could save a whole lot of money and perhaps we could spread it to all sorts of other areas, in other words that there could be some central supervisory authority which could set prices for milk and clothing and everything else. And then there should be no cost to it. But there is, of course, because it creates enormous uncertainty and removes flexibility from companies in terms of being able to adjust their earnings opportunities. And that uncertainty is ultimately paid by the landowners, and it is likely here in terms of higher interest rates, but probably also in terms of higher fees elsewhere in the system. That is why, of course, the Liberal Alliance cannot support this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111603	Thank you. And then there are some brief comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111607	Just one more time: we are not proposing price ceilings. We propose that there should be supervision of what needs to be done in order to be allowed to increase your contribution rate as a mortgage institution. If that is objectively justified, that is fair enough. However, if it is simply a matter of screwing up the fees and making the landowners even more economic dairy cattle, we think it is fair to set a ceiling. Why is that when we don't want to do the same on milk? Because this is a special area. Because this is an area where it is almost impossible to establish a really good competition. And why is that? Yes, because if you're sitting in a house and you've been sitting there for a few years, and the interest rate, for example. In the meantime, there has been an increase in the cost of changing mortgage credit institutions for that reason alone. Therefore, we will never have a really good competition in this area. And that's why we think it's fine in this area that there's more regulation. I would just like to say that the Liberal Alliance is usually also a party that speaks for the business community. Business is some of the hardest hit by this. There has been a doubling of the business contribution rates for commercial rentals since 2011. I think you should be a little more concerned about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111724	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111726	Well, I've never seen the Liberal Alliance as such a business party. We are a liberal party. And that means that we are in favour of personal freedom, including freedom of agreement. And the agreements you make with, for example. A mortgage institution is free agreements. Now the rapporteur says that it is a problem if interest rates rise. Well, that's one of the great advantages of the Danish mortgage system. Well, there are a lot of people who in these years take some very, very cheap 30-year-old mortgage with down to now 2% interest rate. They have some great advantages in that. And it's 30-year-old loans, so you can easily imagine that in 10-15-20 years, interest rates will rise to 4%. That is not the expectation that is in the market, but it can happen. The guarantee that you know the interest rate on your home loan for 30 years is known about the repayment of your home loan, then the cost of the contribution rates can change. It's a deal you've made. You were familiar with that when you entered into it. And in the end it is also to the advantage of the homeowners.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111849	Yes, please. Here you go, sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111852	But my point is precisely: if the interest rate has risen in the meantime, and you have a 30-year loan where you have low interest costs, and your contribution rate is suddenly raised sharply, is it possible to choose just another mortgage institution? That would be the condition for having free competition. Then I would just say: no, there are some other costs in this area that can follow, because interest rates, for example. can change. This may have an impact on what the total cost is, and that is why we do not really have free competition in this area. Because this is different from other areas, and that is why we believe that there is a need for supervision of how far the industry can go in making ordinary people, including small traders, into economic dairy cattle.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214111933	Well, of course, there are some costs involved in changing mortgage funds or changing loans. Well, there are some costs associated with it. And there I just think that the main principle must of course be that the costs are paid by the consumer, that is, the one who wants to change. The alternative is, of course, that it is consumers who do not want to change loans that have to pay through higher contribution rates or other higher costs for them. I just don't think that's fair. One has such a principle when it comes to the environment that it is the polluter who pays. I think it is very reasonable that when you impose costs on an institute, it is also someone who pays, not the other consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112020	Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112024	I think that Mr. Joachim B. Olsen makes several arguments that I believe are postulates that do not hold. After all, we are told by the industry itself that when you have rising rates of contributions, these are the demands that we, as politicians, make on upholstery, due to Basel requirements, capital requirements. But then it may be surprising that most of the profits go to the banks, which are owners in most cases, and it is then paid out to the shareholders. One example is Danske Bank, which made a profit of 20 billion. kr. earlier this year. Half was used to buy back shares, half was used for dividends. If it is really about padding, one would say that when we then let prices rise, it is to have something on the coffin floor. That's not the point. The second question is, of course, that you as an investor should have something for your money, says the rapporteur. Now the President has risen, so I will leave that question for the next round.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112131	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112133	After all, there are different structures in the mortgage market and in relation to the relationship between mortgage banks and banks, but the banks are pouring capital into the mortgage banks, and that capital must of course be remunerated. It is clear, then, that it has to do so on behalf of the shareholders of the bank, but also on behalf of the customers of the banks. That's all it takes. Those banks had all sorts of alternative investment opportunities. I am not sure that the rate of return they receive from mortgage banks is as high as if they had injected capital elsewhere. Of course, they have some interests in investing capital in the mortgage sector, but it is clear that banks must also have remunerated that capital on behalf of their shareholders and on behalf of their customers. It is really, really good that the banks choose to inject that capital, because the alternative was that there could not be sufficient capital to upholster the mortgage sector, thereby providing rating agencies and others with a lower rating, and that would mean higher interest rates for the property owners in the end. So I don't find anything weird about that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112244	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112246	I mean, the whole rating system is something weird, but we have AAA rating in relation to mortgage, right? It is strange that for 200 years you have been able to have a business model where there were some who thought that mortgage bonds and what it was before them were involved in that market was so safe that you could live with a rather small return. That is the way it is: the higher the risk, the higher the return requirements. Here we have got the strange model that the risk is very, very small, and the return requirement is still gone at 10-12 per cent. as in the more risky market. It doesn't add up. It wasn't like that before. Capital could easily be raised there, but now there has been an unrealistically high return requirement. That is what we can read in the reports.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112334	Well, whoever buys mortgage bonds doesn't get a big return. They place their money really, really safe against getting a low interest rate. Then there are some who have to put some capital into the institutions because the institutions need to be upholstered. Those who put capital into institutions have all sorts of alternative investment opportunities. They could choose to place their capital in shares in other companies where they could have received a higher return, etc. So, of course, their capital must be remunerated, and it must be remunerated on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112411	Thank you to the rapporteur. So there are no more comments. Then it's Mrs. Josephine Fock, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112423	Thank you. Together with the Enhedslisten and the SF, we have tabled a motion for a resolution on enhanced supervision of financial institutions and mortgage credit institutions as regards their justification for raising the contribution rates. After all, we have already discussed this in this Chamber, and I sense a relatively strong reluctance to do so. I'd like to go a little back in time. We think that the Danish mortgage system is the best in the world. It has historically been the cheapest, and it has also historically been the safest. That's what it's been like. What we would like to see is that this remains the case. We think it is very important that when you take a loan, you know on what terms you borrow. It is important that you know how much you have to pay in advance every month, so that you know how much you have available after the loan and rent have been paid. But you can't be sure about that today. Even customers with fixed-rate loans, where payments are immediately believed to be fixed, may run the risk of their contribution rates rising. As the rules are today, there is no ceiling on how much mortgage credit institutions can raise the rates of contributions, and that is why we are putting forward this resolution. The Danish cooperative funds came out of some of the things we are best at in Denmark, namely to cooperate through cooperative movements. The mortgage started in the late 1700s after the big fire at Holmen in Copenhagen in 1795 where 900 houses burned down. After the fire, many new homeless people needed new loans for new houses, so they joined forces and started the first mortgage. Historically, therefore, mortgage institutions are in many ways a pillar of the cooperative movement, which in the last 200 years has granted loans to wealthy and less wealthy people. A mortgage consists of three parts: interest, instalments and contributions. Interest and instalments will be determined by the customer and the mortgage institution working together to determine which loan the customer should receive and how long it should be repaid. Then the mortgage bank takes the loan to the bond market, where it is sold to the one who is willing to give the lowest interest rates. The mortgage institutions must distribute and administer the loan, and that, of course, costs some money, and that is what the contribution rates should in principle go to. Historically, therefore, the mortgage credit institution is just a sort of intermediary who has to provide loans between the borrower and the lender. Because mortgage banks have been co-funded, i.e. owned by the borrowers, the only interest for mortgage banks has been to keep the contribution rates as low as possible. That is why it has not been necessary to make legislation regulating the rates of contributions. However, as we have also mentioned, a reform was then carried out in 1989 and meant that the institutions no longer had to be cooperative. Now banks and external investors could also set up mortgage institutions. And this has meant that in the last 25 years we have seen a trend towards more and more commercial mortgage institutions. So the cooperative mortgage institution is disappearing, and it is not only a pity for the democratic cooperative movement, where you count after heads and not after head, but it is also a problem for borrowers. In fact, this means that the institutions go from only having to look after the interests of the borrowers to now also having to look after the interests of the external shareholders. And since institutions only provide loans, the only place where they can make money for their shareholders is through the fees and contributions rates. It goes without saying that the shareholders are therefore interested in as high contribution rates as possible, while the borrowers are interested in as low contribution rates as possible. There is therefore a conflict of interest, and that is really why we are proposing to change the law. Sometimes it may be necessary for the institution to raise the contribution rates that it has always been but at present the institutions face some additional challenges because they have also been subject to more capital requirements. It is therefore appropriate that they should be able to raise the rates of contributions. But this is where we also propose that there should be independent supervision, the FSA or the Competition Authority, ensuring that it is the right thing to do and that there is a real need for it. As I said, we have the best mortgage system in the world, and it must remain so. It's the place in the world where you can get the cheapest loans. It is one of the safest systems in the world, and so much of it is still democratic. We believe that we should stick to this and ensure the future, which is why we continue to hope that we can gain support for our proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112928	Thank you. Sir. Thomas Jensen, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214112932	Thank you to the rapporteur. After all, it is good to hear here today that we all agree that in future we must also have the world's cheapest housing financing system in Denmark. What I would like to ask is that I have now heard from the authors of the questions that have been put and in the speeches that have been made, that we really want to return to before 1989 and to have more cooperative mortgage financing. I would like to ask whether the alternative has some road map on how we should have the current sector turned back on time before 1989.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113007	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113009	I do not think it really is to turn the time back to 1989. The reason I mention this in my speech is to draw attention to what the mortgage credit institution comes from. And that is why we still think that the idea that it is really the supplier of the loan and the borrower who is going to make this deal with the mortgage credit institution as an intermediary is appropriate, because we have seen these cases where the rates of contributions have been greatly increased. And there have been real reasons for increasing the contribution rates, namely because of increased capital requirements. That is fair enough, but then we think that once the rate of contributions has been raised, it should go back to the borrower, if the rapporteur will, after the upholstery has taken place. Therefore, the answer is: No, we don't have a plan to go back to 1989. I would think that might be very interesting but we have a plan that we should continue to have in mind what it was like in the past and thus set limits on how high the contributions can increase.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113118	Sir. Thomas Jensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113120	Thank you. That was good to hear, because then we can now look forward on how we can jointly help to secure this. I am glad that when we reached an agreement in the financial conciliation group on 26 January this year, the Alternative also joined it afterwards. My question is therefore: does the rapporteur not think that we have actually dealt with this issue, which is the subject of this motion for a resolution, namely the fact that we have ensured that if there is to be an increase in prices, what is the reason for this, and if it is not fully explained and explained, can the FSA go in and say that the increase cannot enter into force? Have we not already solved the problem which this resolution is trying to solve?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113207	Mrs. Josephine Fock.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113209	I think we have made a good step on the road, but not far enough, and that is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113215	Thank you. There are no more comments. There is no rapporteur for the Radical Left. Then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214113239	After all, my colleagues have been talking about the whole background to our mortgage system, which we have had for 200 years, a model that has been admired in the rest of the world, where one might also have been able to look with a little envy at how cheap it has been for ordinary people to be able to borrow for a home or for small business owners to be able to borrow to expand their business. As Mrs Josephine Fock pointed out, in 1989 a change of paradigm was made, but also basically in the legislation, because now there was to be deregulated and there was to be other players on the market. What we have seen, especially after the financial crisis; at least in the last few years, when the economy has picked up again, is that there have been huge profits in the banks. There have been large profits in mortgage credit institutions and, in most cases, because there is now a direct oarload from mortgage credit to banks, then it will be part of the proceeds from the mortgage loan that will be paid to shareholders. At the moment, it is also a trend, or what I should call it, that as a shareholder you have higher and higher expectations of what return you should expect, and so it is contagious in this area, where you have some expectations that you as a shareholder should be rewarded for putting money into an area that is as safe as this - almost in the same way as a high risk area or in the ordinary stock market. That is some of the things that are increasing prices. That's what I said. Danske Bank's director also attended the general meeting in the spring, where I also attended. This is about the fact that these are some expectations that shareholders have for return. And when you can take the profits from the mortgage banks and drive it into the common fund from which profits are paid, then there is a direct line between very high contributions rates and shareholders. The Consumer Council Think has examined how much the contribution rates have increased in the last five years and they have almost tripled for all the large ones: from DKK 10,000. for almost 30,000 kroner. Sir. Pelle Dragsted said that for business there has been a doubling. This is about homeowners, but it is also about the fact that mortgage banks have been a driver, an opportunity for small and medium-sized enterprises to grow and expand. We have heard several of the arguments we have heard so many times in this debate about why this must be the case: the banks must upholster themselves, the mortgage must upholster themselves. But we can see that record returns are being made. A record amount of money is being spent on buy-backs of own shares to boost the value. There's going to be a record amount of money. The last few years have been on record. This has to be dealt with in all sorts of other areas outside the mortgage banks, but I think that when we all have this common story that the mortgage is so special Danish and that it is so good, we simply have to say that it is not right. That is also why, among other things, there is a need for the European Parliament to be involved in the process of European integration. was made a package • a package that had some really good actions that went in the right direction. But when it costs an average of 12,000 to 15,000 kroner. to change mortgage institutions and when you have seen that it was only 2%. of customers who did so, it is a very recognizable sign of poor competition and low customer mobility. The package we implemented, which I am completely behind and think is good, made it cheaper to change mortgage institutions. It did it about 15%. cheaper to change and it is still gone too little to ensure proper competition. Then Mr. Joachim B. Olsen of the Liberal Alliance: If there's so much money to make in this area, why don't a lot of new players come in? Well, there isn't. because of the rules we have introduced ourselves. It's really, really hard to get in. There are, in fact, some who would like to enter the market and set up a mortgage credit institution according to some classic principles, but that is almost impossible. Therefore, as Pelle Dragsted said, is also an area where, on the basis of that you must have so much capital, you must be of a certain size in order to be able to cope in the market, so per. definition is not a perfect competition, and there may not be any need for it if there are the right rules to guarantee consumers. Now I know that the Danish People's Party may have had some thoughts about whether there were other players who could enter the market, and some have spoken against it being the Competition Authority. For me and I actually believe also for the Enhedslisten and for the Alternative it is not so much about which player it is, but that it is one where there is an income tax and which has some authority to say that here it is fair to increase the contribution rates, and here it is not, as we do in so many other areas where we are trying to regulate competition, both for the benefit of the market but also for the benefit of consumers. In the case of monopolies and in the case of mergers, there are so many areas where we have rules and where we actually regulate to ensure better competition, because circumstances cannot cope on their own. As I believe my colleague, Josephine Fock, has also mentioned, and as our resolution also says, there may be legitimate reasons why the rates of contributions should be increased. Right after the financial crisis, there were a lot of write-offs, and there were a lot of losses on loans. Too many people had set themselves too hard, and there were great losses, and that would be a legitimate reason. But what do we see today? We see depreciation approaching zero. So there is no problem in this area. Then it could be some other thing. It could be capital requirements etc. But there were just some people who, with a certain income tax, it is not something we should be sitting in here and deciding that it could say that here it is actually legitimate to let it rise by 10%, or whatever it might be, and that could also put it down again when the situation was no longer present. I find it strange that we cannot agree on this in an area where everyone who knows about it and the reports that have been published says that there is no proper competition, and that is still not the case, so why you will not step in to ensure competition, ensure competition for business and for homeowners. That is why we have put forward this proposal as a superstructure to the agreement that was made in the spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114007	Thank you to Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen. There are no comments. And then it's sir. Anders Johansson and then Mr. Martin Lidegaard. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114033	Thank you. I should like to begin by thanking the authors of the motion for a resolution, which aims to strengthen the supervision of financial institutions and mortgage institutions in relation to their reasons for raising the rates of contributions. I can understand the motivation behind the proposal, because it is mega-irritating when you are presented with increases in the contribution rate as a home owner with mortgages. I know that from myself. I know that frustration. You may feel a little powerless as a homeowner, although that is not necessarily the case. However, I would like to stress that, although a ban on raising the contribution rates may seem like a tempting lever to turn on, we in the Conservative People's Party do not believe that this is the right way to go. We believe that increased competition and greater transparency for the consumer and mobility are the way forward. That is why we are also very pleased with the agreement that we reached very broadly in the Danish Parliament in January this year to increase transparency and mobility in the mortgage market. In that agreement, we turned on various parameters which make it easier and cheaper as a consumer to switch between mortgage credit institutions with the aim of ensuring better mobility and increased competition, because, as long as there is a good framework for mobility, the competitive situation will automatically be strengthened and prevent excess profits at the expense of mortgage customers. Contrary to this, if we set a ceiling on the amount to be earned by mortgage credit institutions, or if the contribution rates are fixed politically, then everything else just means that uncertainty will be created in the mortgage credit market, where the returns of the players will not be in line with the return requirements in the market. All other things being equal, this will create a less efficient sector with less competition. At the Conservative People's Party, we believe that the market can and will regulate profits to mortgage banks over time, as long as we ensure that there is transparency and good competition in the market. That's why we put our focus there. That was the purpose of the agreement we reached in January of this year, and in fact I also have the expectation that it will work. Even now, we can see that there are several mortgage institutions offering to pay the costs for their customers if they want to change institutions. You do that because you want to hijack customers from each other because you're in competition with each other. It is a health sign, and it is also a sign that an excess profit is not possible in the Danish mortgage market because there is competition for customers. Another important element of the agreement we concluded was that if you had a loan that exceeded the loan limit, for example. In other words, because of falling prices, there was still the possibility of changing institutions so that, in this situation, one could choose between several institutions if one felt badly treated or received an offer from another institution with better conditions. Of course, we are also ready to take further steps to strengthen transparency and increase competition in the mortgage market if what we have already done does not prove to be enough. Above all, however, we want to see the measures that we have already taken working before considering new steps. So, on this basis, we cannot support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114404	Thank you. There are a few brief comments. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114409	It is a strangely rosy picture that the rapporteur draws from the conditions of competition in this sector. So, all experts, from the Competition Council to the Wise Men to the National Bank, agree that competition does not work. So I think we need to recognise that and that the steps taken so far are not sufficient. I would just like to ask the rapporteur, because I know that the rapporteur's party is very concerned about both the economy of ordinary homeowners and, indeed, the economy of small businessmen, whether the rapporteur recognises that for many small businessmen, the increase in the cost of contributions has far exceeded what the rapporteur's party has ensured through lower taxes.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114457	Here you go, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114458	The last question I cannot answer is one to one, but I can just say that the uncertainty that I might be worried about if the resolution is implemented here far exceeds the contribution rate increases that have been. Because what happens, after all, if you start setting the rates of contributions here by law, is that you suddenly create an uncertainty among those who have to buy the bonds, for whether there is an interest on the part of the owners, that is, the owners of the mortgage banks, in putting new money into the companies if there is a need for increased capital. That is, of course, the concern that creates uncertainty in relation to the interest rate setting of mortgage bonds. Then you can have a fixed contribution rate, but if the interest rate on the bonds then rises, then everything else is equal in a worse situation as a homeowner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114543	Sir. Pelle Dragsted.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114544	First of all, we are not proposing regulated prices just one more time for Prince Canute. However, compared to the fact that there should be such a high rate of return in order to obtain the interest rates, i.e. the interest rate trend that has been going on, I just find it strange, because we have had a mortgage system for 200 years, where there has been no need for a rate of 10-12 per cent. of the capital. Why should it be so since 2011 that suddenly that kind of return is needed in order to keep cheap loans? I mean, I think it's an over-emphasis on what is called the concern that we are expressing here. It's gonna sound like a bad excuse.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114629	Here you go to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114629-2	Yeah, but nevertheless, that's what we can see. Now it is the case that the mortgage market is a global market. So, it is global players who buy bonds all over the world, and if there is no competitive return, or if there is too high a risk, then the money just moves somewhere else. Therefore, it is a little naive to think that we can just here in Denmark set a ceiling on how much one wants to pay in interest rates or in contribution rates, or how much one now thinks one should put in security, because then the money just moves somewhere else. I believe that, if we guarantee this mobility and free competition, the market will regulate itself so that risk and return will go hand in hand. It is quite natural, and that is how it works on the capital markets.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114715	Thank you. And then it is Mrs Lisbeth Bech Poulsen, Socialist People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114719	Thank you. In fact, I am very pleased with the rapporteur's opening remarks that this is an important area and that the rapporteur can really understand the background to this. It was also what should be said about the same intention that many of us had, which also led to a package being made in the spring. And that package is entirely behind SF, and we think it was some good steps in the right direction. But the problem remains that it is too expensive to change mortgage institutions. And that is the overriding reason why there is not enough competition. Because if it was okay, you could shop around more, like when you choose where you buy your milk or whatever it might be. Once it's 15 percent. The rapporteur believes that this is enough, that is to say it outweighs the advantage of changing when it is estimated that it costs between DKr 12 000 and DKr 15 000. on average to change?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114825	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114826	First of all, I would like to express my support for the question, because I very much agree with the questioner that it is important that there is good competition on the market. And whether one or the other percentage of switching is the right one, the market has to regulate. But it has to be said that what concerns us about the resolution we have at the moment is that there is, in fact, a greater risk that precisely the charges for moving mortgages will increase. Because if you decide by law how much mortgage credit institutions have to earn from the rates of contributions, they have to find other places to earn their money. And it could be by increasing the fee to change. In fact, I think that one of the most important things is that there is free mobility, because that is what ensures that we can compete with each other as institutes. And that is what will ultimately ensure the sharpest prices for consumers.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114912	Mrs. Lisbeth Bech Poulsen.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214114913	However, our resolution is not about setting a price ceiling or saying where the limit should be. We're saying that there should be an independent authority, the Competition Authority, the FSA, whatever it may be that has to assess the fairness when these big jumps come. And it has to be said that the increase of 300 per cent in five years, and I think the rapporteur agrees with that, is very, very much. And there are some who need to go in and assess whether it is fair or not, because it is not a market in which there is good competition. So that's one thing. The second, namely the move of loans and how much it will cost to change mortgages, fortunately we have among other things. have a look at in the agreement from spring.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214115003	Thank you. And then it is the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214115004	Well, that is where we simply fundamentally disagree with the proposers, because we believe that the market will regulate the contribution rate if we can create better conditions of competition. So that is why our focus is and that is what was our intention with the agreement we made in January to create better conditions of competition. Because if there is good mobility and good competition, there will be no possibility for institutions to increase the contribution rate. Then everything else will just find a market level and a market return for institutions, and thus consumers will get the sharpest prices.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214115036	Thank you for that and thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's mr. Martin Lidegaard. I intend to take a lunch break at 8:00 a.m. 12.00. I know that many rapporteurs have arrangements during the lunch break. So it's gonna be accurate.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214115051	Thank you very much. I regret that I was a little late for the rapporteur's report. I was in negotiations elsewhere. This is in itself a very sympathetic motion for a resolution tabled by the authors of the motion for a resolution, namely the desire to ensure that, if the rates of contributions are raised by the mortgage institutions, there must be a good reason for this, either in terms of capital requirements, increased costs or whatever it may be, and increased certainty that this is the case. However, if we are a little hesitant on the part of the radicals about this specific proposal, it is, as several rapporteurs have already said, because we have addressed it here in the conciliation group which has worked on the issue in several rounds. Not least, we are concerned that the FSA has been given a stronger role in ensuring that if the contribution rates are raised, indeed, there is in fact a good reason for this, and we are not entirely convinced that it makes sense to set up a completely new supervisory authority. But I would like to make a commitment to the authors of the motion that this is a matter to which we have great vigilance in the Radical Left. This is a matter that we will pursue in the conciliation circle and, of course, in the light of the new recommendations made by the Competition Council, we will also see where we can actually do something. In particular, we are concerned about one of the recommendations made by the Competition Council, namely that when, for example, we are involved. If you take a loan as a borrower, you will have your bonds available so that you can move more cheaply and more easily from one mortgage institution to another if the rates of contributions are raised. This is one of the specific areas in which we have asked the Minister to look and in which we think there is potential. There's some technique in it, but it could be a way to go. Because what we all agree on is the way forward here, is to increase competition and ensure that we actually make it easier for ordinary borrowers, on the one hand, to choose between different mortgage institutions, and, on the other hand, to be able to move if they feel unduly treated without costing a farm. But as a starting point, we would rather pursue it in the conciliation circle than bypass it. On the other hand, we will do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214115305	Thank you. Then it is the rapporteur for the proposers. Sir. Pelle Dragsted, go ahead. And, of course, the rapporteur gets the ten-minute rule.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214115323	I'll try to be as brief as possible. As the debate has shown, this proposal is about how much is being pulled out of the pockets of the homeowners in connection with their mortgage and for that matter on small traders. Unfortunately, what we have seen over the last decade is a marked increase in what are called the contribution rates, i.e. the cost of living in a dwelling. There has been a doubling, and this has actually had a very severe impact on the economy of many families. We have discussed housing tax very much in this Parliament, also for good reason, I think, because it is a problem if housing tax increases faster than people's incomes so that they can be put out of their house. But it is just funny that there has not been the same concern that the same homeowners risk not being able to pay their housing costs because of rising contributions rates. The same applies to small businesses in particular, for they are also affected by the higher rates of contributions. A business and growth package has just been concluded to help small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the costs borne by small and medium-sized enterprises with these rising rates of contribution far exceed what is involved in aid to the very same enterprises in the business package. That is why I am surprised that there is no greater concern, not least from those parties in the Chamber who often try to present themselves as the friends of small traders. 'Cause this is gonna cost a lot of money. That is also why it has triggered some rather massive protests. We have some big facebook groups of tens of thousands of Danes who are committed to this and who have been involved, fortunately, in putting pressure on the political system. This has also led to some tightening up, as we saw with the agreement in the spring, where some agreements were made on increased transparency, which also cut a bit of the cost of changing the mortgage company. The problem is that it is quite obvious and most experts also agree with this, including the Competition Council and also the financial wise men that despite the changes the competition is still not working. So the motion for a resolution we have tabled is basically about recognising that it will be difficult to establish a very good competitive situation on the mortgage market. Why? Yeah, because you're on these loans for years. You may have taken up your loan at a time when the interest rate was low. You may even have put yourself in a fixed-rate loan with the expectation that then you could actually stay with your family in your home for the 30 years until the loan was paid off. What is then experienced is that suddenly the rates of contributions are rising. On average, it is 4,000 kroner. a year that ordinary Danish homeowners have experienced, but for individual households it has been about 10,000 or 12,000 DKK. a year. And for example... In other words, a retired person or a person in a low-wage group is enough for it to mean that you can no longer live in your home. That is why we are saying that we need to make more regulation in this area. There may be good reasons why mortgage companies need to raise their contribution rates. There can be. There may be new requirements for upholstery, there may be some things that change. There may have been some losses. But that is not what we have seen over the past decade. There we have seen that these rates of contributions have been raised for one purpose, and that is to draw money out of the pockets of the homeowners and transfer it to its owner-group, which is typically the banks, which thus own these mortgage institutions. After all, as several other rapporteurs have also mentioned, this is the consequence of the fundamental change in our mortgage system over the last few decades. There has been talk of 1989, and it is true that the law was changed in 1989 so that the banks could enter and operate mortgages where it used to be incorporated. This means that the customers themselves owned the large mortgage companies. This has been the case for hundreds of years in Denmark. This was a really smart solution for all people, because it meant that you own the mortgage banks yourself, and therefore no one was interested in higher prices. Why should prices be raised for themselves? Unfortunately, in 1989 a law was drawn up which meant that cooperative mortgage credit could no longer be created and that the banks were allowed to go in and take over the existing mortgage credit institutions. It's happened since then. The last mortgage house we have left, which is still partly owned by customers, is Nykredit, and it has also helped to keep prices down. All experts recognize that the ownership is as it is, namely that it is customers who own, has helped to be a bulwark against rising prices. Unfortunately, Nykredit is now on the way to inviting private investors in, and this will lead to a further increase in the contribution rates. There is no doubt about that at all. Our proposal aims to ensure that the rates of contributions are monitored. This means that if a mortgage institution wishes to raise the contribution rates, it must be approved by the supervisory authority. We've suggested it could be under the Competition Authority. It could also be under the control of the FSA. It's not really important to us. What is crucial is that there is an objective, independent assessment of whether there is an objective basis for raising the mortgage contribution rates, and a factual basis is not that the shareholders over at Danske Bank should have a return of 14 per cent. instead of at 12%. It's not a matter of fact. An objective argument could be that, for example, we should be able to do something about it. has increased capital requirements. This means, of course, that there is also in the proposal that if you are allowed to increase your contribution rates, then, once you have achieved that padding, you must, of course, set down the rates of contributions, because then there is no longer any factual basis. Unfortunately, I can hear that today there is no majority in favour of the proposal we have tabled together with the SF and the alternative. I have of course noted that several rapporteurs have said that this area will be looked at on an ongoing basis. I think that's good. I also think that the initiatives that have already been taken are a good thing. But just a few comments on some of the speeches that have been made: it has been said here that we have the lowest housing costs in the world and that interest rates are low. Yes, that is true, but the main reason why interest rates are low is generally low interest rates throughout the world and within the European Union. There is no guarantee that it will remain low. We have quite a lot of borrowers who sit in short-term loans, which are redistributed, for example. every year or every three years or every five years. I am very concerned about what happens if interest rates rise, following the trend in the rates of contributions that we have seen. It is true that we have been lucky to say that the years in which the rates of contributions have increased have gone down, so there has been an opposite effect, which has meant that total expenditure has been low. But what about the day the interest rises? I do not think we should count on the fact that the day when interest rates rise, the banks suddenly put the rates of contributions down again. So this will mean locking an increasing proportion of the Danish economic space for housing costs, and that is not good for our society. It is not good for the retail trade, it is not good for the economy if it is. I just think that is ignored in some of the rapporteur's speeches that have been made. Then it has been said that this competition thing is just what it takes. It would be wonderful if we could have a really well-functioning competition, but I miss a recognition that this area is different. There was a rapporteur up here who compared it to milk and clothing. I think that's irresponsible. We are in an area where it is really, really difficult to establish a well-functioning competition. In such areas, I believe that even as a liberal or conservative one should be much more open to going in and making more regulation. Then it has been said that it is about the bondholders and that if this is implemented it will mean that the bonds cannot be released. That is a rather strange argument, I think. Because we're talking about the investors in the mortgage banks. Well, the bondholders get their earnings on the interest paid by the landowners. The contribution rates are linked to the mortgage credit institutions and to the companies that own them or invest capital in them. So why it should affect the possibility of having its bonds sold, that those who own the mortgage credit institution should not be able to get a high rate of return of 10-12 per cent, I simply find it hard to understand. Maybe the minister can explain it. So in relation to the Danish People's Party: It's interesting with this Detector test. I understand from the rapporteur of a discussion I had during the debate that it will not be a matter of going in and restricting the possibility. You just want to come up with a lifted finger and say, "You really don't have a factual basis." This is clearly a step forward in relation to what is now in place and we would very much like to be involved in working in the committee for a report on it. But I do not think we should count on it to solve the major problem that many Danish homeowners unfortunately face in these years. Finally, I would just like to say that there was a rapporteur up here who said the left wing proposal. This case is not a left-wing case. This case is a case involving all Danes who live in a owner's residence or a house or a parcel house. This concerns all small businessmen who own business premises. This is not a left-wing proposal. In other words, it is about something quite fundamental for the economy, both for the citizens and for the small self-employed. It is also a little remarkable that we have the economic wise men, whom I think most people will not accuse of being left-wing, who say in their recent report that there may be a need for regulation of price formation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214120353	Thank you to the rapporteur. That concludes the debate because no one else has asked for the floor. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Industry, Growth and Export. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214130000	The sitting is resumed. The first is Mrs Christine Antorini as rapporteur for the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214130024	In Denmark we live on knowledge and on creating value for other people all over the world, and we also work with people who are very different from ourselves and can different things. Nor should we be mistaken about the fact that we are in competition with very talented people all over the world. At the same time, Danish companies must produce services and products that are also unique, not only here in Denmark or in Europe, but also in a global context. It is from this perspective that we need to see the discussion on this report in the field of research and innovation. For it is clear that many years of investment in education and research play a crucial role in ensuring that, as a small country with an open economy, we also have such a strong competitiveness in knowledge. That is why we in the Social Democratic Party think it is a pity that the government has broken the long tradition back from the globalisation pool in 2006 with broad agreements on long-term investment in research and education. I am aware that the Minister has expressed an understanding of the fact that a criticism has been raised from both industry, educational institutions and research environments, and it would be nice if the Minister could be better disposed of. But the Minister is working within the framework of the government. I would like to acknowledge that the Minister recognises that there could be a challenge here. But that does not change the fact that we are in a situation where the sustained investment that has been in higher education and research goes the opposite way and that it has been a deliberate priority on the part of the government, because it would rather give priority to other areas together with its support party, the Danish People's Party. I would also like to mention the billion savings in higher education. In fact, there are also savings in upper secondary education, but let us stick to higher education. The savings will continue with the financial agreement that has just been concluded, if it is to be voted through. We are all eagerly waiting for that. However, if it is voted through, it will also continue the savings that have been made in all higher education until 2021, if you look at the projections made by the government itself. This means that if you look at the whole area of education with upper secondary and higher education, you can see that it will end with the government with its support party cutting just under 15 billion. kr. And it actually has a major impact on the quality of education and thus also on the ability to compete and become skilled in relation to research-based education. This is, of course, linked to the quality not only of universities, but also of professional education, in other words that it is based precisely on research-based or research-inspired programmes. This means that the entire development of research environments must be put into practice and benefit both our welfare societies and the Danish companies. That is why it also means that it will be harder to train and recruit the talented top researchers on whom we will be very dependent in the future, and it is precisely in the light of the global knowledge competition that Denmark is part of. At the same time, the government has also chosen to cut the research budget, so it is 1%. of gross domestic product, which is the minimum investment resulting from the globalisation agreement. That was in 2015 when the savings were decided, no less than 1.4 billion. kr., translated into present value will mean a saving of 2 billion. kr. in the research budget, and that is something that has been felt in the environments with fewer investments and programmes that have been closed in areas that have been extremely important for Denmark, including the development and demonstration programmes that have been in the field of the environment, food and energy. Fortunately, growth in Denmark is now improving, and this means that 1%. I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and I would like to congratulate him on the work he has done. But that does not change the fact that the overall discussion about what is for the benefit of Denmark is about whether we should keep cutting as the government does, or whether we should try to look at the positions of strength that we actually have and which give a really good social gain. I would like to give some examples of this. The first example is from all over the area, which is commonly referred to as lifescience. Fortunately, we are in the favourable position that Denmark is a welfare society, where we have both a good healthcare system with equal access for all citizens, and then we also have a well-developed industry which, moreover, cooperates with the health care system in life sciences, which is from medicine and food to biotechnology. It creates many jobs and exports for billions and taxes for the common box, and it also means that there is a production in Denmark which in a global context is incredibly strong in this area. It is actually so strong that we export for 1.7 billion. kr. a year right now, and today it amounts to 17 per cent. of the total Danish exports of goods with up to 38,400 full-time employees in Denmark. However, without a top-level research and with very skilled employees in a wide range of education and continuing opportunities for lifelong learning, it cannot succeed entirely in the same way. The same applies to the fact that we have, for a long time now and for a long time, built up an incredible international capacity in the field of environmental and energy technology. It is both beneficial for citizens, for our environment, for our climate, it is beneficial for Danish companies, and it is also beneficial for the entire Danish community in relation to jobs and growth. If we look at the figures here, we can see that Denmark has an export in the field of green energy technology, which has grown to export for almost 72 billion today. kr. This gives jobs to 67,000 employees in Denmark. I guess it's a brand of jobs and companies spread across Denmark, because growth in the green production area is growing rapidly, and it is actually in Denmark as a whole. So all the talk that Production Denmark is on its way out does not last, and this also applies to future production and technologies, where the whole climate area is a really good example of the fact that when we invest in education and research, we support jobs in the best way possible throughout Denmark. In the social democracy we have three areas which we believe should be tackled strategically in relation to research. Firstly, it is technology development that promotes economic, social and green social development. Secondly, globalisation must be beneficial for growth, democracy and prosperity in Denmark, and thirdly, the public sector must be developed to support a healthy socio-economic, social mobility, cohesion and effective, confidence-building social governance. I deliberately mention these three areas because they are in fact all dependent on renewable research and development. Because it is not just about the development of production. It is also about research in social models, management, etc. When you delve into the figures from the research and innovation policy statement, you can see that the long-term investment in research has actually benefited. That is why it is so good that we have this debate on the statement. If I am going to highlight some of the figures that we can be pleased with when looking at the statement, it is that Danish research has a high level and is doing well in international comparisons. Denmark has a high number of public scientific publications per year. is one of the countries with the highest research impact measured in quotes per year. scientific article. Denmark is also internationally high in terms of scientific collaboration between public research institutions and private companies, which underlines the speciality we have, namely that here we are not talking either publicly or privately; the good Danish history is a well-functioning public sector that cooperates with the private sector. In 2014, 15% reported. of the Danish innovative companies that they have collaborated with universities and other higher education institutions. This is a higher proportion than the EU average, but lower than countries such as Greece. Finland, Great Britain and Sweden. So here is something that we should look at together, in other words what we can do to make Denmark do even better here in cooperation with higher education. If you look at what is called the European Innovation Scoreboard, you can see that Denmark, together with Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and Germany, is what you call innovation leaders. Denmark is above the EU average of almost all 25 indicators, and Denmark is particularly high on indicators such as research investment, excellent and attractive research environments, intellectual rights and small and medium-sized enterprises' innovation cooperation with other companies and knowledge institutions, and again here: public-private cooperation. Again it shows that the long-term investment in research batter. This means that we are doing well not only as educational institutions, but also in Danish society and in relation to Danish companies. On the other hand, Denmark scores less high on indicators such as: the proportion of SMEs active in innovation and access to venture capital. The last part is not something we can do about here in the Committee on Education and Research. But the whole thing about focusing on how there will be a much better knowledge sharing, also for small and medium-sized enterprises, and having research employees as part of it, whether it is through business research schemes or in other ways, is a potential that we should look at together. However, the real challenge at the moment is that there are a number of companies in Denmark that lack employees with the right skills. It is particularly in IT and the technical areas that the need is high. This statement does not address exactly that problem, but it does not change the fact that the innovation power that has to be depends entirely on the fact that we also have more training in IT and the technical field. This is among other things. That is why, in our growth package, the Social Democratic Party, among other things. has proposed that technical research should be 20%. We are also pleased that in the agreement on the allocation of the research reserve, more funds have been given priority in the technical field. But here too there is something that we should work on together so that we remain at the top of this issue. In those words, we would like to thank you for your statement, which underlines the usefulness of investment in research.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131040	Thank you, therefore, to the Socialist rapporteur. On the line, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl, Dansk Folkeparti.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131054	Here we are again. It is healthy, I think, with such an annual return to the same theme. This certainly gives me an opportunity to try to think a little over and above the individual issues that are very easy to fill in everyday life. It also provides an opportunity to reflect on what has happened in the last year. Last year I found that I could have made the same speech as last year. And what is it like this year? There aren't the big revolutions, and then maybe anyway. I imagine there's hope in the sun and star that something's moving and that something's coming. It will not be seen if I just take the statement which we really need to discuss. It's probably the thinnest one I've ever seen. And when I had read it and returned to the Minister's final words in the foreword "Good Reading" I thought it wasn't that bright. Fortunately, however, a much thicker and more comprehensive report on education and research policy has been presented this summer, and we have recently received the government's objectives for Danish research and innovation. There may still be grounds for a little bit of optimism, so there is a basis for taking today's debate. For several years now, I have been complaining about the lack of quality in both education and research. I have regretted the lack of coherence, coordination and simplification of our system of funds, pools and support systems, from the UDPs, the GTS and a large number of other support and assistance schemes, all based on good will to push research into the outermost parts of companies. I have mentioned this almost reflectorically in the negotiations on the research reserve year after year, and I have been told that yes, now we are looking at it and now we are doing something. This year I was included in the agreement on the research reserve that the government promised to come up with a plan next year, and the fact is that it is not also included in the government's objectives: simpler research administration. So there's hope. We have fought a long and tough battle for the taximeter reform for higher education. There has just as quietly crept into the reform a weighting of quality which, in my view, has ended quite sensibly and which, fortunately, has full support here in the Folketing. Then I think: 'Hurrah, it's worth something, something has actually happened in the last year!' Then there's hope. I would like to commend the government for bringing together the objectives of Danish research and innovation. Of course, it can be said that most of the elements come from different agreements and that it is not all innovations. But it gives an overall picture, and it provides a basis that we can measure the government next year. Then I will easily be able to stand here and take stock of whether something has actually happened in 2018. For example: It could be excellent if next year we had a good new model for the distribution of basic funds. One of the first things I met when I became rapporteur for the area in 2011 was that the distribution of basic funds did not fit the reality of the day, back in 2011. It's never been challenged that it didn't fit, but from there and then to change anything, well. At that time, I was met with indulgent eyes in the ministry when I said that we had to do something about that. Then we had to take it from some, and there was already an automatism that solved the redistribution, and that would probably solve the problem. I remember getting a graph showing how much was automatically redistributed over the years, and it showed that after an almost infinite number of years, a little, but not much, would have happened. It wouldn't solve anything. But the conclusion has always been that there are historical reasons why it is the way it is and that it is difficult to do anything about it. Now, at least, the government is opening up a new model, and I hope that, in broad agreement, we will dare to make the redistribution of funds that is necessary if we are really to believe that it is quality that is paramount. The government stands high and talks about creating a Nobel Prize Pact. And it's really nice too. I think we all want more Nobel prizes for Denmark. But is it so realistic? Yeah, why wouldn't it be. There is the weakness of the government's proposal, of course, that no funds have been set aside for it. And if it is to become a reality, there must be means. The constructive and positive element in the government's proposal is that private funds should be thought into. Today, the funds play an important role in overall research funding in this country, and if we are to make the most of the total investment, efforts must be coordinated. Here it makes very good sense to seek a dialogue, to seek agreements with the funds on their role in the overall picture, and here a statement of the highest ambition, which a Nobel Prize has to be said to be in the field of research, could seem attractive, so perhaps the funds would also participate in it. So overall, I have pretty high hopes, and we will try to hold the government to all the fine words. I am also a realist, so I know that there is probably a need to bite the Minister just a bit in the hanks, what I also intend to do, to ensure that the promises are not forgotten. Now I assume that the Minister will stand here in the Chair a little later and assure us all that he and the government will, of course, pursue all the objectives. It might also be interesting to hear how the Minister will ensure that all initiatives are implemented and prioritised throughout the system, and how the necessary means are provided to ensure that everything can be implemented. Then I very much hope that next year I can stand here and welcome everything that has happened in 2018, and with that hope I just want to say thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131642	Thank you to the rapporteur. There is one brief comment from Mrs Christine Antorini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131649	Thank you for the floor. It is nice to hear the ambitions of the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in the field of research, which I also know about, as we have had the pleasure of negotiating in different contexts. That is why I just need to hear how it can be that the Danish People's Party is, after all, the party that has ensured the majority that research appropriations and higher education have been cut since the government has arrived.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131713	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131714	Well, that's part of some overall priorities. There have been things and areas where it has been very important for the Danish People's Party to ensure that there were the necessary resources, and therefore we have accepted the cuts that have been made. I am also in favour of the 2% reduction that has been in place for some years now, because it will not continue to work. In the long term, of course, it cannot work that we continue to cut back when, at the same time, we want to have great ambitions and want to create a development.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131747	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131748	I also noticed that the rapporteur said that there could have been almost the same speech here as last year, and that is true, because the government has been here for a few years now. However, it is interesting to dive into the graphs as there is in the research and innovation policy statement. There you can actually see the impact of long-term investment in research. Denmark is more skilled and more skilled, including at international level. What does the rapporteur think about this in relation to the need for a renewed long-term investment that promises, rather than the crack that has been in place now?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131823	I think it is very important that we look first and foremost at long-term strategies and intentions, which must of course be followed up by prioritising resources and ensuring resources to follow up on them. That is why I think it is very important to say that we now have some intentions, we have some ambitions, and then we need to work together to find out how we are developing it and how we ensure that they can be implemented in the future too, so that we can ensure that we can continue to have the growth that we need.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131850	Then it's Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131853	Thank you. Now the rapporteur himself says that, at some point, we cannot keep cutting back any longer and at the same time have high ambitions. I very much agree with that. I would just like to say that this government, which the rapporteur's party has also supported, cut 1.4 billion. kr. on research as one of the first when one came to. And in addition, there are the fixed 2-percent savings on education every year. How long can this be allowed to continue? I would like to ask the rapporteur. Because I think it is high time it was stopped.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131928	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214131929	Well, of course, it will be a challenge, and it will be a greater and greater challenge, the more years pass. It can be said that overall it has been about priorities and there have been areas for which I have to say it has been very important to secure resources. But forward-looking, I will insist that what this is all about in the first place is setting up ambitions and setting the framework so that we get the most out of the means we have. And then we're gonna have to try to find more funds for the future. I'm pretty much into that. I also agree that we need to find a way to cancel the 2-percent savings that are so that they cannot go on forever. It's kind of a core task.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132013	I thought that was really interesting. Is it to be understood that if we put forward a proposal to remove the 2-percent cuts in education, the rapporteur's party will support it? Because I think we can definitely agree on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132025	It has to be understood that as long as they are 2%. is part of a financial law that we are part of, we are, of course, behind the financial law that will then be passed. And it must be understood that if we are now to take forward the various discussions on research, education and training developments, we will have it included as a theme that will enable us to find a way to ensure that there are the necessary resources everywhere, both for research and for education.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132050	With this we thank the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party and move on to the Left's Mr. Mads Birded.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132108	Thank you. Thank you very much to the Minister for the written statement. It contains very interesting reading. There can be no doubt that research and innovation are crucial to the development of our societies. New knowledge creates new opportunities, and new opportunities create a breeding ground for growth and prosperity and new jobs for the benefit of the homeland. In other words, good research is the way to a better and richer Denmark. There are no two opinions on that. That is why it is also crucial for the Left that we give priority every year to creating a good framework for excellent research to be carried out in Denmark in the future too. As the report also highlights, research is a very high priority here, and we invest a lot of money in research and innovation. And even if one can get the impression that the government is swinging the savings knife over the training courses, it was particularly apparent from the first speech we heard, fortunately the statement also shows the opposite, i.e. that our level of ambition and level of investment are very high. We invest 1%. As long as we are able at home to have economic growth above price developments, there will always be more funding for research. It will still be the most important thing for the area. In 2017, we have set aside 22 billion. kr. for research and development. We are at the top of the OECD when it comes to public investment in research and development, and we can be proud of that. Fortunately, we can see that massive investments bear fruit. Danish research has a high international level, and as the report shows, Danish researchers are high when you look at which research is quoted most among OECD countries. I think there is every reason to rejoice. At the same time, however, we must not use the fine results as a sleeping pillow. Times change, and we change with them. Times change, and I change with them, and that's why I'm standing here. It's not just about King Lothar, it's about all of us, including the country. The world is changing all the time, and technological development is running away from us if we do not turn into more sustainable production. And Denmark will also be at the top in the field of research in 10 years' time, which is why I am very proud of the government's recently presented research and innovation policy strategy to prepare Denmark for the future. In particular, the two objectives that Danish research must continue to be of the highest quality internationally, and that research must make the greatest possible benefit in society, are a very good way of thinking about research applied. The strategy is based on 28 new initiatives designed to ensure the best possible starting point for Danish research and innovation in the future. With these words, the Left fully endorses the conclusions and analyses contained in the statement. We must maintain Denmark's position of strength and continue to give the research and innovation area the very best conditions. Investment in qualified knowledge is usually well spent, and I think this statement shows that the government is doing a lot to provide research and innovation with the best framework conditions for the future.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132443	Thank you. There are two brief comments. First, it is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132447	Thank you very much. I was just stunned that the rapporteur said that it might appear that the government had cut back on research. I would just like to hear the rapporteur confirm whether it is not entirely correct that the government cut 1.4 billion. kr. on research as the first when one came to. And as we can also see from the graph here on page 2 of this statement, the curve breaks, and it goes down from 2015. So is it actually not factually correct that the government has cut back on research?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132517	Now it is the case that our research is part of GDP, and when you have economic growth in the country and then you see a break in that percentage, then the percentage that breaks is not the total amount of funds. For growth has meant that the total sum has gone up. That is why I used that wording.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132536	If you want another brief remark, you press straight in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132543	In other words, there is a relation to GDP, but the rapporteur does not agree that when the curve goes down dramatically from 2015, it is due to the deliberate removal of 1.4 billion by the government. kr. from the research area? Is that right, or is it wrong?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132604	After all, it will be offset when the general growth of society catch up with the crack that has been in the percentage of increased GDP in the country.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132615	Then it's Mrs Christine Antorini.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132617	It is true that according to what GDP is like and we have a one-percent research objective, more or less money will come from it. Now we know what has come of more money for research, because fortunately growth is moving forward in Denmark. But is it not true that, despite the progress of growth, the growth resulting from the 1-percent objective does not offset the reduction of 1.4 billion? kr. Summa summarum is still less money for research, even though growth is fortunately better in Danish society.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132650	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132651	Then it must also be true that, with the current economic climate, we will be able to catch up with growth trends in the reduced share of GDP.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132705	We can thus thank the rapporteur. The next in line is Mrs. Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214132730	Thank you very much. There is no doubt that research is incredibly important for our social development, and it is for the benefit of our economy that Danish researchers are able to produce new, important results. You can, for example. In the environmental field, see how Denmark has been at the forefront in many areas of renewable energy, and how it also makes us, for example. can export a lot of important green technology to e.g. The United States, where there is a very high demand for it. As a motor for the development of society, research is also absolutely crucial because it is simply here, the basis for how we should live our lives in the future, is laid. It's both about finding important solutions to the climate challenges, but it's also about how we can organize our working life in a better way: It can be research in pedagogy, where there are also some really exciting things happening in Denmark, and it can be in relation to curing diseases. There are so many areas where we are deeply, deeply dependent on the research being carried out now to help deliver important results for our future. So research is insanely important, and that is why I am also glad that we have an opportunity to discuss this and that the government is actually making such an annual strategy here. Having said that, however, I think that we have so much to give priority to research and education in Denmark with some more resources, because it is quite obvious that you cannot get the same quality if you keep cutting back, and that is what has happened. The Minister has recently been out to say that there is a desire to attract more private funds into the field of research. That is also a good thing, but I think we should take our own bosom here and say that, first and foremost, we must ensure that we have a properly publicly funded basis for our research. That is why I also think it was a completely wrong priority when the government, as one of the first when they arrived, cut 1.4 billion. kr. from the research area. It is extremely much money to remove from research, and I have to say that that level has not been restored at all. I think that should be absolutely crucial for a government to get started and say: listen to me, that is actually what we have to live on in the future, so of course this is not where we have to cut back. That's the first thing. The second is about these 2% cuts in education. We can already see how they are hitting all around and weakening the situation in our educational institutions, and I have to say that is something that is going to affect research to such an extent. The scientists I've been talking to tell me, among other things. on how these cuts also mean that they have to spend much more time teaching, because there is actually being fired staff around the universities, and it also means that when you spend more time teaching, of course you have less time researching. It also means spending much more time on administration, booking meetings, conferences, etc., because much of the administrative staff there has also been made redundant. So all in all, we are now in a situation where these cuts also undermine the quality of research, because scientists really do not have enough time to actually do research because they have to do everything else. So I think it's very, very important that we address these economic challenges and discuss how we can actually raise the level of the conditions of our Danish research and get it back to the top. From Enhedslisten's side, we would like to allocate 1 billion. kr. extra for research, and I would like to see that it was something that the government would enter into an active discussion on, that is, how we could actually raise the limit of resources in this area, because there is no reason not to be ambitious here. Finally, I would like to say that it is also very important for me that we have confidence in the researchers and the strong environments that are around and that there is some freedom to research what we need to research. It is clear that we, as politicians, all want to help shape the development of society to some extent and, as I also mentioned, I think it is very important, for example, that we give priority to some of the green research, because we simply need to make it clear that there must be areas where we go in and say that here we can actually promise and do something special, and here Denmark has some special positions of strength. We can go along with this point, but overall I think we should pay close attention to the fact that as many funds as possible are actually allocated to free research. I am very pleased with the resources, for example. is located in the Danish Free Research Foundation, which is really here, there is also the possibility to think more out of the box and actually help make some of the inventions that may prove extremely important in 5, 10, 20, 30 years. We must also give that freedom to our institutions and our researchers, so that there is also a chance to think a little more freely there. This is one of the things that I think is important that we increase. When we have been around as research rapporteurs and seen some of the things being done around, it is very clear that there are some very, very competent people in our research environments where I really believe that if you invest properly in them and if you give the right freedom to researchers, there is really, really much to come for. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214133343	Thank you to Enhedslisten's rapporteur. Then it's the Liberal Alliance, and that's Mr. Simpson. Henrik Dahl. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214133353	Thank you for that, President. Of course, the Liberal Alliance takes note of the statement. A debate has taken place in the Chamber on the level of investment in the field of research and innovation. It is such a kind of political phantom pain that has to do with the Finance Act, which was adopted two years ago, but phantom pain also hurts, and that is why, of course, people who complain about it must also be listened to. I think it is good to have proof that Denmark is sacrificing the same thing on research and innovation as we have done all along, namely a fortune, and it is a fortune that can grow and fall slightly on the decimal places, but it is nevertheless a fortune we are talking about. For the sake of argument, I would like to take up the idea put forward by the Social Democratic Party that more money should be spent on research. Is that even a good idea? It would be a good idea if the quality of Danish research over a long period of time had decreased, but it is not. As several rapporteurs, including the Social Democrat own rapporteur, pointed out, our universities have a stable, high level. Danish researchers are extremely diligent when it comes to publishing, and they do not just write to be published. Researchers are widely read and quoted. So despite the lamentation we hear from the left, Danish research actually succeeds in hitting the high level every single day of the year. But it is also generally the case that there is no longer a link between price and quality in the public sector in Denmark, and we also need to engage in a more general discussion. We charge almost 46 per cent. of our gross domestic product in taxes and taxes, and that is the highest level of taxation throughout the OECD. But is quality also the highest in the OECD, and here I am not talking about research, but here I am talking about a general problem throughout the public sector? Far from always. There has never been a direct link between price and quality in the public sector, but in Denmark, the lack of consistency between price and quality is so systemic and so pronounced that it is appropriate to talk about a kind of general crisis in the public sector in terms of translating the enormous resources provided. And that was, of course, the highest percentage of GDP in the whole OECD when it comes to translating that quality in a way commensurate with quantity. So the allocation of funds does not indicate that there is a crisis. It is a little difficult to demonstrate what the problem that has to be solved by adding more funds should consist of, but there is no general correlation between price and quality in Denmark, among other things. Danish universities are some of the most bureaucratic in Scandinavia, and it would be far more sensible to do something about bureaucracy than to add more funds when quality is as high as it is. So I cannot really understand the arguments of the Social Democrats. As far as Chapter 2 of the report on innovation is concerned, I would first like to say that I am fully satisfied with the presentation of the state of affairs contained in the statement. However, I would like to make a few more general comments on the relationship between research and innovation. If you have to put the difference between the two things on a formula that is easy to remember, you can say that research is spending a terrible amount of money to create new knowledge, and innovation is using a terrible amount of knowledge to earn more money, and it is very, very important to remember that that difference exists and we have to bet on both. Without basic research, innovation cannot be done, and without innovation, as a society, we cannot create the growth that is both necessary for citizens to experience prosperity and necessary for the state to have the resources needed to invest in research. That is why there are two things that are important when it comes to the relationship between research and innovation. Firstly, it is important that we do not take the view that it is either research or innovation in general research policy. Secondly, we must not confuse research and innovation. It has two different things to do, and it has to be treated as two different things. If I am going to elaborate on the first point, I would say that I do not think it is in any way reasonable to demand that there should be an immediate income requirement for research. As I said, money is something you make from innovation, while research in turn is something that costs money, and it is surely money that you cannot in any way be sure that you will get back. That's why the research typically has a state as a sponsor. After all, it is the States which have the patient money or risk capital, or what they prefer to call what is necessary for research. I would almost say that the patient money is, in fact, one of the most important things about the modern research system. I can give myself an example. I once wrote a book based on the French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu. He had the French State invested so much money in that I am sure that the French State has never received it again. On the other hand, the innovative use of Bourdieu that I could manage to make was very, very profitable both for myself and for the company in which I was then employed. So, of course, it would be quite unreasonable for the French State to make concrete demands on a genius such as Bourdieu and his completely groundbreaking research, whereas, on the other hand, it was quite reasonable for my employer to want my much, much more pedestrian-like way of thinking and working to be documented, in other words, that I had used it wisely. So it is something essential to stick to the relationship between research and innovation. We must have both: the groundbreaking research that is not necessarily required to earn, and the prospectful innovation that hopefully one day will turn into an invoice. Then we are on the second point I made, namely that we should not make the type of economic requirements for research that we would have put forward for innovation, nor should we make the demand for groundbreaking scientific insight into innovation that we would have put forward for research. The last thing I want to say is that there are several rapporteurs, including from the left, who have been very, very busy speaking about political management of research and what needs to be researched. I must warn against this in the strongest terms. There must be an arm's length principle for research, and it is therefore best if it is not politicians who control what is being researched. It has to be on the basis of merit. The meritocratic system and the political system are very different, probably to frustration for many who may take a research course and experience voting for what is true. It feels strange when you're a researcher, but it has to be the best research that is being promoted. With these comments, as I have already said, I take note of the statement and thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134139	I do not think I am bothering anyone when I can say that the Left wants to deepen those views, so go ahead with Mrs Eva Flyvholm.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134148	Yes, thank you very much. I would just like to hear from the rapporteur whether it is not quite fresh to see that when the full consequences of the cuts have not yet been met, there will be no problems either. I know, of course, that the rapporteur himself is in the field of research, and is it not true that we are being warned in many places that the consequences of the cuts that have been made here in recent years, in other words, will be much longer, so that we will only really notice some of the problems in the coming years and that we cannot just read them directly from year to year?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134225-2	Of course, with special interests, they will always take care of their interests in order to obtain more funds. They have always done so, and they will probably continue to do so, but I take it cold and calmly because, as I said, there is no link between price and quality in general in the Danish public sector.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134244	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134245	But it is really interesting that there should be no correlation between price and quality. So the rapporteur actually believes that we could easily cut research down to, for example.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134305	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134306	It must be understood that if we are the OECD country which spends the largest percentage of its GDP on public services of one kind or another, then we should logically be number one in all areas. We're not. Therefore, there is no necessary correlation between price and quality.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134322	Then it is Mrs Christine Antorini, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134324	I have learned a very useful concept, namely that you can make a so-called strawman argumentation. I have even learned it from the honourable rapporteur who is on the platform. The idea is to build up a heroic argument against something you do not like, and then you will discuss what you really should not discuss. And I came to think of it because it was a very heroic discussion that was that the Left could not discuss changes in the public sector at all and that price obviously had to be the same as quality. Look, what we are talking about here is actually what is happening in terms of research and innovation. I recognize that price and quality do not necessarily have to be equal, but here we have figures on the table. So I would like to ask the rapporteur whether he can confirm that what is documented here is that the investments that have taken place since the globalisation pool and onwards can be directly read in the fact that we have become more skilled and more skilled, measured by the indicators that Denmark has measured internationally when talking about research and innovation.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134417	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134418	It is clear that we have expanded our activities, and it is also clear that these very talented researchers who have benefited from the expansion of our activities have been able to publish. But it must also be said, on the other hand, that nothing or very much has happened, that is, we are at a very, very high level now. That is why we must, of course, have a discussion about it; we cannot continue to add more funds, as was actually the case in the globalisation agreement. As the rapporteur himself pointed out, Danish research is far and away excellent and, of course, it will continue to be so when we allocate 1%. I would like to make a few comments on the Commission's proposals.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134455	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134456	In other words, the rapporteur can nevertheless confirm that this is not a discussion about more, but about better. Yes, more money has come, but it is also reflected in a marked boost. We have improved; we have simply come up in the international top league in selected research areas, which is necessary for a small country like Denmark. We can't be everywhere. Would the rapporteur also confirm that these figures will end with figures from 2014 onwards, and that, according to the rapporteur's arguments, they have actually gone the opposite way and have no effect?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134526	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134527	Our research had a virtually equal level before the globalisation agreement, but there have been more high-level researchers. And, of course, you can see that. But the level of research itself has not suffered from the decisions that have been taken.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134542	Thank you. We are moving forward in the rapporteur's line, and that is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, and that is from the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214134550	During today's debate, I remembered the expression that we all often use: Knowledge is power. Then I thought about who said it, and it's Francis Bacon who said it in the 1500s. He was a philosopher and a science theorist. The reason why I start by mentioning this is that he is an example of how important humanist research is in a social perspective. I will deal with that later. The previous rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, a little bit about the freedom of research and the arm's length principle. In the alternative, we want more freedom for educational institutions and for students and researchers in higher education. The educational institutions must be given a greater degree of autonomy and students must be given the opportunity to put together, for example: Bachelor, professional and master programmes should not be limited to one or two or three courses. There is no future assurance of that. In this way, we believe that incentives are being created for thoughtfulness, interdisciplinaryness and greater courage to put together education creatively and to stop and test its knowledge in practice and find its own personal talent. In the alternative, we want more creativity in higher education in research. Studying and researching is, in its basic substance, a creative process which must be supported politically. Curiosity cannot and must not be proved, and the unreasonable must also be taken seriously. We do this by giving students and researchers more space for reflection and idea development. As research is a creative process which cannot be predicted and where results emerge from the most unexpected, research, as I have just mentioned, must be made more free. The free research is useful because it makes space fail, space for reflection and space to let unexpected results appear. If we set research free, research itself will come up with solutions to the main challenges of our society, and at the same time we will ensure that artistic, spiritual and humanistic sciences are also given the place and recognition they deserve. A prerequisite for the good researcher is good education, and here I have to stress, like other rapporteurs, that good education requires educational investment. It is therefore sad that the present government has chosen to cut education as massively as it has. Whether you fail in your first semester during a bachelor study or fail in your research project, it is always part of the process of becoming wiser. Today there is too little room in our educational world and educational system to fail. As politicians, we have a responsibility for the structures that we have created ourselves, structures and frameworks that support the research culture that is currently out there, a research culture which, unfortunately, in some respects is a culture in which short-term results can promote careers and where competition for research funds is too extensive and also in some cases a culturally damaging part of the daily work of researchers. So the question is whether we can create a framework for a research culture in which it is recognised that major research breakthroughs require time, that good ideas and breakthroughs require a free framework, that they demand security and the courage to take chances, and that, as has already been said, there is also room for humanist research. In the alternative, we believe that we must show confidence in researchers. We believe that we must give researchers more freedom, we believe that we must support them in long-term research, including young researchers. We believe that they are wasting their time on paperwork in competing for funds. In the alternative, we are sure that free research without strategies, without always having concrete objectives, will come up with solutions to the main challenges of society that we face in the future simply because the nature of research itself will seek solutions to the current and most pressing challenges of society at all times. Finally, back to Francis Bacon, because my point is that in the future ethical and humanistic issues will arise, for example. automation, the introduction of robotization, personal medicine, big data, and other actions that lie in the near future, are among the most difficult and most important issues. That is why there must be room for more free and humanistic research and for, for example, for: It, tech and humanities are more closely linked across, and that we give more freedom to think things together, including things that have not been thought together before. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214135139	Thank you to the rapporteur. We go further, and then it is Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214135151	Thank you. This is a fine statement on research and innovation in Denmark, published by the Minister. Closer cooperation and closer coordination between state-funded research and research funding funds are very good and absolutely necessary. It has been a long time along the way, and if Denmark is to be a country in the future that contributes pioneering excellent research in line with the very best, then we need to be together about it. After all, the research funding funds make a significant contribution in Denmark, and thank you for that. Nor can anyone really be opposed to an ambition for a new Nobel Prize to Denmark, as long as we are not led to believe that we as politicians can imagine it. Research must be free of political interference, but we must, of course, set targets for what are the major challenges we will give priority to public research funding to solve. Then I am a little curious that, as this statement shows, a new model for the distribution of basic research funds is needed. It's a new model the government is setting up. It must promote the quality of research, says the report, and it is not obvious to be opposed either. That's good. In fact, it is basically the whole basis of the nature of research. Only funds are allocated to research in Denmark on the basis of this fine excelence principle. It is, and it must be, research of the highest quality that is allocated funds. So new quality indicators may sound promising, but it is a bit of a question of whether they are new indicators rather than those that are already there. Is it on top of those who are already there? Does this mean less time for research for the researcher and more time for reporting on centrally established indicators? Because that's when it sounds less promising to me. But we will see that, and I look forward to talking about it. Better career opportunities for talented researchers are also mentioned in the report. That's really good, too. It has to be said that the massive savings made by the government and the Danish People's Party on research in previous years have meant very large gaps in the food chain of research. And if that food chain isn't in place, it can have very long-term consequences, because it takes a long, long time. It's actually also very clear from the statement that building up research environments takes only one miserable financial law decision to start the degradation. This is a report by the European University Association, which has recently documented from a comparison of a large number of countries, including Denmark. In the area of innovation, I welcome the ambition of closer coordination between the Danish Innovation Fund, which I think is doing very well, also for a few years with far, far fewer funds, and then the various development and demonstration programmes administered in different ministries. We need to be able to look across those initiatives. That was the statement. A number of years ago we in the Danish Parliament in the time of the S-R-SF government agreed, not in law, but in speech, quite broadly, that the objective of using 1%. of GDP on public research should be a floor and not a ceiling. For this government it seems to have become a ceiling anyway, and that is too bad. It's too bad the government has saved so much on research. It is short-sighted, it is unambitious, it is backward-looking. So I hope that the government will return to the fact that the objective is a floor we can set off on, and not a ceiling on research. We've already got a backward-looking training ceiling. We'd like to get rid of that and we don't need any more ceilings. In the Radical Left, in our own plan, we have set aside considerably more funds for research and education. We hope, of course, that the government will do so in the future, because research is therefore a prerequisite. Good research delivers new solutions to our problems, new jobs, better life, cleaner planet, cleaner environment, more fun learning. There is almost no end to what good research can deliver. Research saves the world. And I would like to say from here that I love research, and I love living in a country where we have contributed so many solutions because we have world-class research. We shouldn't stop doing that. We must give priority to this, because it benefits all of us. And, of course, we would like to enter into negotiations on this at any time, should you be lacking some mandates for this at the end of the day. I should also like to congratulate the Minister on his call for more researchers to participate in the public debate and the importance of the dissemination of research. And praise to all those who do. I think it's in today's Politiken. This is really, really important, and here too we can all learn more. Experts are making us smarter, and we should not stop them, we should pay tribute to them.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214135831	Thank you to the Radical Left rapporteur. As I do not see the SF rapporteur in the Chamber, we move on to the rapporteur of the Conservative People's Party, Mrs Brigitte Klintskov Jerkel. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214135849	I would like to start by thanking the Minister for the written statement. Research and innovation are a cornerstone of Danish society, which is why I am also pleased that we have just landed a broad agreement on the research reserve in 2018. The brain is one of Denmark's finest raw materials, and with research at the highest level we can create growth and new jobs, and we can train all those who have to take a job, both in private and in public. We have a good progression from primary school to the world's best research programmes. We want to educate next-generation Nobel Prize winners. That is also why, in its new strategy, the government has said that it wants to establish a Nobel Pact. We must promote and recognise Danish research at Nobel Prize level. With the target of 1%. We ensure a massive research activity that creates new knowledge in Denmark. We can be proud of that. Overall, we are going to spend 70 million. kr. more on green energy research next year, which we from Conservatives are really happy about. Finally, I think we should pay tribute to all the good research and the link between research and private investment; private investment in research amounted to 1.9 per cent. of GDP in Denmark in 2015. We are heavily dependent on the good interaction between research and companies. Danish exports come from companies, and we make money from innovation and innovation, which helps to create growth and new jobs in Denmark. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214140043	Thank you to the Conservative rapporteur. Then we have actually reached the rapporteur's line and can welcome the Minister for Education and Research. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214140054	At the end of the day, as the rapporteur on the Radical Left said, I did not quite know what she meant, at least I am standing here. I would like to thank you for the floor, not least to the President-in-Office of the Council. I am pleased that the President has given me the floor right now and the nice words about the statement. We are one of the richest countries in the world, Denmark. We're a green country. We are a country where it is safe to live and move. I admit that when you look at social media or watch TV 2 News, it may not always look like that, but meta-considerately it is true. Danish research has a solid part to play in the success that Denmark represents: knowledge, active force, smart minds that generation after generation has brought Denmark to what we are today. We must build on the strong knowledge tradition. In the 00s, the globalisation agreement invested heavily in research and education. We doubled, for example. the number of PhDs. The promise we made back then, we've enjoyed it for many years. Now is the time to take stock and look forward. The starting point for today's debate is the annual report which takes stock of research and innovation in Denmark. Here the government has stressed the need to give a review of the development of the most central parameters of research and innovation, and the report highlights that research is a priority in Denmark. We invest a lot of money in research and innovation. The money's good for you. Danish research is doing well. Danish researchers are high in international comparisons. In other words, we have a strong starting point, but for such a thing there is also a change in the world. There is a rapid technological development. Global challenges call for a transition to sustainable production. International competition is tough. In these years other countries are heavily armed in the field of research. Danish research is strong today, but we must also be the leader in 5-10 years, and if we are to do so, we must do it even better. At the same time, we need to make the most of the money that society invests in research and innovation, and that is why we need a new strategy with a new focus, with new ambitions, with new initiatives, so that we can make it even better, and the government has presented this with the research and innovation policy strategy with the manning, captivating title "Denmark" ready for the future. With the strategy, we reach both for the stars and take a long way into the toolbox to solve some of the specific problems that have arisen over the years following the globalisation agreement. It has two clear objectives: Danish research must be of the highest international quality, and the research must be of the greatest benefit in society. At the same time, the government will maintain that at least of the gross domestic product for research and development is allocated at least annually, Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen. This is a high level of investment compared with other countries, and with the prospect of rising GDP, more public money will come for research. At the same time, the financing of research by private funds is increasing significantly, as can be seen in the annual report. It provides good opportunities to perform more research of the highest quality. With the new strategy, the government sets in with a wide range of initiatives to support the overall objectives. Some of the initiatives will take effect here and now, already in 2018, while others will support the goals in the longer term. Several of the initiatives envisage stronger cooperation between the different actors in the Danish research and innovation system. We need to make a joint commitment if we are to raise our ambitions. This applies, among other things, to: the Nobel Peace Pact proposed by the Government. The top of Danish research must be comparable to the very best in the world. The best Danish researchers must be at Nobel Prize level. Therefore, we will work to establish, over the years, special Nobel Prize Centres with an ambitious economic framework and a long time horizon. The centres are to create groundbreaking research similar to that of Professor Jens Juul Holst when he discovered the intestinal hormone GLP-1. The hormone has proven to be effective in the treatment and prevention of diabetes, and recently Novo Nordisk has invested 13 billion. kr. in developing a pill with the drug. The discovery has become a golden egg. I would like to invite both public and private research funding funds to work together on a Nobel Peace Pact, for an ambition such as this requires that we pledge together. Also in the breadth of Danish research, the quality needs to be raised. The government does, among other things. by focusing on good career paths in Danish research, younger research talents should be given the opportunity to move up the elite and become the top researchers of the future, and at the same time it is important to be able to attract the best international researchers to Denmark. That is why we must also resolve the much-discussed challenges relating to rules for the secondary employment of foreign researchers, where I have been having to talk to the Atlantic magazine for several days now, just to mention an example of some regulation that is so foolish that it must of course be changed. We are working to make the rules more flexible, and right now we are concentrating on finding a concrete solution which, of course, will then have to be discussed politically here in the Folketing. Another place where the government will focus on quality is in the way we allocate funds for research. I've got, like, sir. Jens Henrik Thulesen Dahl mentioned that he was preoccupied with quality from the outset in the Ministry of Research and Education. Recently an agreement has been reached and I am proud of this with all parties in the Danish Parliament on a new licensing system for higher education. It is a licensing system in which we better reward education with quality and good job prospects. Now the trip has come to the research. It is also important here that we do not have a narrow focus on quantity, but rather on quality. The so-called basic research funds for universities amount to almost 9 billion. kr. It is approx. 40% of the total public research budget. We intend to introduce a new model for the distribution of basic research funds which will help to improve the quality of Danish research. The final model will be drawn up after advice from an independent group of experts, and then, of course, there will also be the political discussion. Then we must hope that the quality requirements will follow there too. Of course, I have no doubt about that with the rapporteurs I am lucky enough to have in this area. So with a nobel pact focusing on good career paths it's also one thing that I know the members here and a new model of basic research funds the government intends to raise the quality of Danish research, both at the top with the nobel pact ambition and the entire scientific breadth. It is important that we do both. We also intend to strengthen technological research. More research funding will be given priority in this area in the coming years. We must be able to offer new technological solutions and take the lead in the race to develop new technologies such as artificial intelligence and the use of large-scale data. Here we need to get more professional skills in play. The Government therefore proposes to establish a new national research centre for digital technologies across the sector. In addition, the government will draw up an action plan to strengthen the capacity for technological research. It should not be secluded from society, knowledge should not live in isolation at universities, knowledge should be beneficial. That is why an important ambition is that Denmark should have an innovation system, as Mr. Henrik Dahl was in the world class. We need to create new knowledge in cooperation with universities and Danish companies and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. As indicated in the annual report, private research investment has been slightly declining since 2008. This is a development that we need to analyse in more detail. At the same time, we will ask a number of international experts to make recommendations on how we can raise innovation work in Denmark to new levels. Finally, it is the government's ambition to build a bridge between science and the Danes. Research must reach out more to the general public, we must have respect for researchers, and we must pay tribute to the wise and the wise. Therefore, it is part of the strategy to strengthen the dissemination of Danish research and enthusiasm for it. Fortunately, there is good breeding ground in the population for this. I can already say that now that I have held several meetings, and what is also documented in a recent poll by YouGov brought today in Berlingske. The strategy contains many important initiatives, which build on the good starting point, and prepare Denmark to seize the future • 28 initiatives, some more quantitative, others more qualitative, to be precise. Many of the strategy's initiatives require that we can find funding from the research reserve in 2019. There is a need for political support to implement the initiatives. I look forward to discussing this with the parties next year. I hope that the strategy, together with the annual report, will provide a good basis for a discussion of future research and innovation. I look forward to the debate now and so thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141028	Thank you very much, Minister. One person has now signed in, and that is Mrs Eva Flyvholm, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141033	Thank you very much to the Minister. After all, the Minister explains how it can be seen that private investment in research has been slightly declining, and that is what the Minister is concerned about, and that is why we want to do something. I think that is a good thing. Could one not also look at the fact that there has actually been quite a sharp drop in public investment in research from 2015? Was it not also possible that the government could intervene there and actually help raise the research funds to at least the level at which they were before the government came and cut down? Because would there not be any point in saying that we are both trying to support private companies' investment and research, but that we are actually going in and making a proper contribution to research here, so that we can get to the top? Wasn't that something the Minister could help investigate?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141136	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141138	I have heard Enhedslisten's view of this through this debate, and there are never any funding proposals for how this is to happen. But then the government has put forward another basic philosophy, namely that through reforms we want to create growth in Danish society, so that we get as much growth as possible, thereby triggering even more money for research, because we stand firm that at least 1%. of our gross domestic product must be applied to research. So there's a difference in philosophy. We do not want to be part of a bug is empty word use; we want to create growth so that more money will come to research. And that's why it would be nice if, for example, a party that Enhedslisten joined the government's reform objectives and thus helped Danish research well along the way.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141228	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141231	Yes, I think it is quite obvious that there are some philosophical differences. But I would like to ask the Minister: is it not the case that investment in education and research is also something that actually lays a very good foundation for our social economy that the investments we put into research can help bring Denmark financially ahead in a number of important areas? Would the Minister not agree with me that this is what it looks like?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141258	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141301	But if the idea that we should do what is best worthwhile should apply, Danish economic policy should be radically changed. Well, then you'd have to, for example. have top tax relief tomorrow, which I know the Enhedslisten is fiercely opposed to. So if the rationale is to be followed, I would like to follow it to the door with Mrs Eva Flyvholm. But then you have to sit down and make a completely different economic plan from what we are talking about. This government is trying hard to follow some of the rationale, namely by trying to get reform through the Danish Parliament, which actually creates growth, including, of course, investment in research and education.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141332	These are important ministerial statements, but now we move on to Mrs Sofie Carsten Nielsen, the Radical Left. Here you go. I thought the President would appreciate it!).
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141338	Thank you. I would like to ask a little more textually about that too, because here we have the occasion for these quality indicators for basic research and how we develop them. I think that this is a good idea, and I think that no one can be against an even higher quality of research and transparency, I assume, so that we can see what it is that contributes to quality. So could the Minister not elaborate on what preliminary ideas the Minister and the government are making in this area, and perhaps most of all whether we could give each other a hand to ensure that it does not develop into more bureaucracy, which is one of the things that scientists are already very much hung up with, and which means less time for real research?
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141437	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141440	I understand that the rapporteur is asking that. Because we need data, and if you need data, it also requires that they can be collected and that you can collect data requires bureaucracy. Our task is to reduce it, so that it is as little as possible, corresponding to the benefit we have from the data we obtain. That is why we are going to seek international expertise to say: how can we do this wisely and meritocratically, as Mr. Henrik Dahl said it, and so it is doing good at the same time? That is why I do not want to go down in detail very squarely, because it will require a solid piece of work which will also require the involvement of the political parties in the Folketing.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141531	Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141534	It's okay, and I understand that very well. So let it be just a statement of intent from this point of view, as I heard from the Minister, that we must endeavour to reduce the time spent by researchers on reporting. Yes, we need data and they need research, and there are already a large number of reports. Simplification is also one of the words contained in the report. Let us insist that it should be extended even more.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141604	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141607	I fully agree with that. I have a heartfelt desire to simplify and clarify. At the same time, I also have a wish that we can harvest data. How do we find the perfect system? I don't think we're gonna get to that. But we can certainly do better, and I hope we can reach agreement on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141623	Then it is Mrs Pernille Schnoor, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141626	I would just like to make a positive, appreciative comment to the Minister. After all, I spent some time in my rapporteur's speech talking about just this big data and knowledge centralized in the cloud and so on, which means, as I see it, and as others, megatrends and so on, that we must have a completely different research that goes across areas of research, in other words where humanist research is to be more mixed into other areas of research. That is what I heard the Minister say about a centre that goes across sectors. Then I would just like to hear the Minister briefly elaborate on what this is going to be about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141717	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141719	In general terms, we can see that the new discoveries are in a crossroads between the two, and yes, a crossroads between the scientific and the humanist, and we need to find that out. What is just important for me to say is that we have experienced before how a discussion of this led to a relaxation of professionalism, and we cannot. We should have learned from history there. We should have learned from that, for example. That, sir. Henrik Dahl says that there should be an unconditional meritocratic requirement. That should be for professionalism. But the new discoveries are merely an interaction between the excellent professionalism and the excellent interdisciplinaryism.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141816	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141819	The reason why I take it up is that humanist research, I think, has not been taken seriously in the past in some contexts, where it has, as it were, been trivialised to deal with some very microscopic challenges about what to say, very small issues which have no relevance to anything other than the tiny field of research, and I am just glad that I sense that the Minister recognises that humanist research is becoming more and more important and it has of course been all the way through. That's also why I mentioned this about knowledge being power. Because when you're researching, for example... It is, after all, humanistic research that is used for it, and such relations are of enormous importance in future research into what the Minister is also talking about.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141919	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214141922	It is no coincidence that I have used the word 'help' and not the word 'use'. That is because I see the responsibility we have as being wider than just an assumption of usefulness, and I very much agree with what the Liberal Alliance's research rapporteur, Mr. Henrik Dahl, said that the profit requirements for research and innovation are different. Research is risk capital, and there should be space on a meritocratic basis, where we, among other things, should be. leaves a lot to e.g. The Free Research Council to make some decisions about who should be supported. And sometimes something may look strange, but we have to live with it because it is ultimately a matter of benefit and not of usefulness. That is the incredibly clear answer.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214142014	With that answer, we thank the Minister for Education and Research. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-DK_20171214142030	There is therefore no more to be done in this sitting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 15 December 2017, at 12:00 p.m. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
