ParlaMint-DK_20170223100011	The meeting is open. Today is Thursday 23 February, which means that the President of the Danish Parliament will be 70 years old. We will have a good opportunity to mark this elsewhere, so we now move on to our ordinary important work and to the Danish Parliament's agenda today, Thursday 23 February 2017. From a member of the Folketing, Stine Brix, who is on leave, I have been informed that as from 1 March 2017, she will be able to rejoin the Parliament. Peder Hvelplund's duties as a member of the Folketing shall cease to apply from that date. To the Danish Parliament's agenda are the following reviews: Minister for the Environment and Food (Esben Lunde Larsen): Bill no. L 144 (Proposal for a law amending the Law on the operation of agricultural land. Bill No. L 145 (Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Use of Fertilizers and on Plant Covers. Søren Egge Rasmussen (EL), Kaare Dybvad (S), Merete Dea Larsen (DF), Roger Matthisen (ALT) and Kirsten Normann Andersen (SF): Motion for a resolution No. B 71 (Proposal for a Parliament resolution on the introduction of full-year residence requirements in newly constructed dwellings). Titles on notified cases will appear in www.folketingstidende.dk (cf. above).
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100150	If no one objects to the promotion of this request, I consider the consent of the matter to be given. It's a matter of course.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100216	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled. There is a proposal. Motion for a resolution (Doc. V 40 of Karina Adsbøl (DF), Karen J. Klint (S), Carl Holst (V), Pernille Skipper (EL), Henrik Dahl (LA), Pernille Schnoor (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV), Trine Torp (SF) and Orla Østerby (KF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote. In favour, 109 (S, DF, V, EL, LA, ALT, RV, SF and KF) voted against, 0 abstentions. Proposal for adoption No V 40 has been adopted unanimously. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100324	The debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote on the proposals for adoption. There are two proposals. The vote shall be taken first on the motion for a resolution No. V 42 of Pernille Bendixen (DF), Carl Holst (V), Joachim B. Olsen (LA) and Orla Østerby (KF), and voting is possible. I shall conclude the vote now. In favour of voting 57 (DF, V, LA, KF and 1 RV (by mistake)), against 53 (S, EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. Proposal for adoption No V 42 adopted. After that, proposals for adoption are: V 41 of Ane Halsboe-Jørgensen-Jørgensen (S), Pernille Skipper (EL), Torsten Gejl (ALT), Marianne Jelved (RV) and Trine Torp (SF) lapsed. That concludes the question.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100448	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100517	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100551	No amendments have been tabled. Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100613	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 86 (S, DF, V, LA and KF), against 24 (EL, ALT, RV and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100650	I would point out that, after the agenda has been published, Amendment No No has been tabled outside the supplementary report. 7 and 8 by the Minister for the Environment and Food. The debate is primarily concerned with the proposed amendments. Does anyone wish to speak? There is not, and then the debate on the amendments is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100736	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-4, adopted by the Committee on Amendment No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 5 and 6 were accepted by the committee or on Amendments Nos. 8 outside the supplementary report by the Minister for the Environment and Food? That is not the case, so they are adopted.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100807	The debate then concerns the draft law as a whole. Does anyone wish to comment on the bill as a whole? That is not the case and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100817	The final adoption of the draft law is being voted on and can now be voted on. We shall conclude the vote. In favour of 91 (S, DF, V, LA, RV and KF), against 19 (EL, ALT and SF), abstentions 0. The bill has been passed and will now be sent to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100849	Does anyone wish to speak? As this is not the case, the debate is closed and we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100923	PRESIDENT. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 1-3, elected by the Committee? That is not the case. The amendments have been adopted. I propose that the bill should go directly to the third reading without referral back to committee. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223100949	The debate is open. The first rapporteur to speak is Mr Beazley. Magnus Heunicke of the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223101027	Thank you for that, President. The bill here has two elements. One has a slightly more technical character, and that is where I think we can quickly agree, at least on the part of the Social Democrats, that we support the extension of work on the temporary compensation system, because we are also prolonging the work on restructuring the system of reimbursement in the field of employment because of the work on repairing housing tax. That part is, in my view, totally unpolitical, so I hope we can agree on it quickly. Then there is the second part of the bill which concerns a new special grant scheme of 300 million. kr. targeted municipalities with difficult economic conditions. There is no doubt that when you travel around Denmark, and when you meet with both citizens, but of course also municipal politicians, and that's the way it is, regardless of which party you come from, it beats you that there are huge differences in the framework conditions. There is a huge difference between the welfare that is being provided and there is a huge difference between the safety net that has to be there. There is simply too much difference, and the alarming thing is seen by the Folketing or at least it should be that the difference that has been has grown and that it seems to be even greater in the future, and therefore something needs to be done. So the intentions behind this part of the proposal, i.e. a new special subsidy scheme of the 300 million. kr. targeted municipalities with difficult economic conditions, it must be said, are good. I hope no one believes in it, but there is certainly a need to go that way. If you've followed this case here, you'll know there was a pool in the past that was actually bigger. Last year the pack was 420 million. kr. against the current 300 million. kr. The previous pool was created under the former S-R-SF government, and it had precisely this purpose, plus that it also went to some of the cities that have the proven greatest social challenges. It is therefore housing areas and that was defined in the law at the time, with many longterm unemployed and many mentally ill and many vulnerable citizens' groups, and if you had a concentration of them, then under the previous scheme you could also benefit from it here. Of course, some of them are in the big cities; we know that. The City of Copenhagen alone has 25 per cent. There is a great social task for Denmark's drug addicts, but it has been torn out of the present proposal. I think that is a pity, that is to say, reducing the pot and taking the big-city social measures out of this measure, because they are also needed. But for Social Democracy, the bottom line is that if not the full and full step, then a step in the right direction, and there is a need to go much further along this path when it comes to ensuring that there are better framework conditions for driving our welfare society out in all Danish municipalities. If you stumble as a citizen as a family then be sure that there is a safety net that picks you up no matter where in Denmark you live. It is too wrong today, and measures that go in the direction of correcting at least parts of it, we support, and we do so with this proposal, although it is with regret that the previous pool has been reduced and that an important element from there has fallen out. But that does not change the fact that the proposal itself, as it stands here, we can support it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223101455	Thank you, sir. Magnus Heunicke. The next rapporteur is Mrs Susanne Eilersen from the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223101505	Thank you for that, President. This bill stems from the 2017 Finance Act and is about the creation of a new special grant pool targeted at municipalities with difficult economic conditions. The special grant pool shall replace the former special social grant pool, which was wound up with effect from 2017. The former special social assistance pool went in particular to larger urban municipalities and municipalities in the metropolitan area, and the pool was earmarked for pre-determined social measures. In the Danish People's Party, we are very pleased that we are now getting the money reprioritized to municipalities that are economically disadvantaged as a result of demographic, structural and employment challenges. On the basis of the revised criteria, the plot will be aimed in particular at rural and peripheral municipalities, which have experienced major demographic changes in recent years through large relocations and job losses, with a much lower tax base and population composition with a growing number of older people. There has been some criticism from KL that the payout of the pool may vary from year to year, so that the municipalities are not guaranteed the same grant for years to come, but we also have to recognise that things are changing continuously. If an area finds that a large company suddenly closes or moves, it can pose huge challenges, and then a special grant will be extremely relevant. Therefore, it is also important that the announcement of the special grant pool is accompanied by the general announcements of grants and compensations per year. 1 July the year before the grant year, so that the municipalities have the opportunity to plan with it in their budget planning. The second point in this draft law concerns the temporary compensation scheme for the reorganization of the reimbursement system in the field of employment. It shall be extended until the end of 2018. This has to be seen in the light of the fact that the change in the compensation system has been postponed until 2019, as work is currently under way, among other things. a new housing tax system. So in that light, it makes sense to extend this scheme by one year. Therefore, the Danish People's Party can agree to the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223101730	Thank you to Mrs Susanne Eilersen. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Carl Holst from the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223101742	Thank you for that, President. Like the two previous rapporteurs, the Left can support the draft law. In relation to the previous pool which was abolished and which the Socialist rapporteur touches on in his speech, the new thing here is not only that we are now targeting aid to municipalities with particularly difficult economic conditions, and that the framework for what some municipalities need to have is what the prerequisite is for them to be given support, precisely by looking at demographic, structural and employment criteria, but also by targeting the pool against rural and peripheral municipalities, as opposed to the previous pool, which was implemented in a very targeted manner, we could see large municipalities that were characterised by the fact that they were large municipalities and not necessarily municipalities with particularly difficult economic conditions. Against this background, the Left supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223101852	Thank you, sir. Carl Holst. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223101906	Thank you. If we take the first part of the bill separately, the grant pool, the Enhedslisten supports it, because it is obvious, as several rapporteurs have said, that there are some very major imbalances and some major social problems in a large number of rural municipalities. And I just have to say that you should be careful not to overplay the importance of this 300 million. kr. I am quite sure that I know one hundred percent that my dear fellow party members in Lolland Municipality and other municipalities on those edges, on Langeland, will be happy to get a little more money, but they will not change the perception that there is an incredible bias in the Danish system compared to the municipalities' opportunities to solve social tasks. So this pool doesn't solve a lot of problems. But, of course, we support small steps, as we do in our party, even though things are not moving forward with the step length that Enhedslisten wants, we also support the small steps with tied knees, as this proposal expresses. I would also like to say that it is high time that, as in the case of the majority of Members, we recognised that we ourselves have been involved in creating problems. For the problems we see in the rural municipalities are not all rural municipalities, but in some rural municipalities and in the outermost districts, or whatever words we now need, is, of course, a product of centralisation that has taken place in Denmark since the structural reform was carried out. It has, of course, made schools closed down, day-care centres closed down, people looking for larger cities, but social problems remain many times in rural communities and in many cases become even bigger because there is no such thing, what can be said, operational bases in civil society and in the economy, which make it possible to have a sustainable economy. And I think that's a reality we should all deal with. You should not think that because you are now giving 300 million. kr. In such a special grant pool, the problem has been solved, because that is far from being done, and certainly not, when you actually finance it by closing down another pool which also served social purposes. It is true that it did so to a great extent in some large cities, but we cannot belittle the fact that there are major social problems in these large cities. So it's kind of borrowed feathers you dress up with here. And then you haven't even taken the step and spent all the money you saved by taking it from the other pool. So it's not to be angry and sprinkle salt in the wound and everything else, but it's, of course, for us to sort of put things in the right perspective. The second part of the proposal is also supported by the Enhedslisten. It is true that we are not involved in the conciliation procedure behind this, which was about the total reversal of the reimbursement to the municipalities, i.e. the State's reimbursement to the municipalities in relation to the social benefits. That's the way it is. 1 January this year, the municipality itself will have to pay 80%. • the cost of a social benefit when the citizen has been on it for one year. That's the general rule. There is one exception in the case of flex jobs, where the compensation is roughly the same, as far as I can understand, as it was before, and that is of course a good thing. But the second is, in the view of Enhedslisten, a disastrous development, because it means that in those municipalities where you have many citizens with social problems, many citizens on early retirement, for example. or other citizens who are very far away from the labour market or who do not have a labour market that will or can accept these citizens, the reimbursement model will act as a harsh punishment that will put pressure on the municipalities to ensure that the citizens are on the cheapest possible benefit and, perhaps, no benefit at all, which is often the consequence when you come to cash benefits and your spouse has an income. And that is why Enhedslisten went sharply against the change of the refund system. We believe it will have major social consequences. Another consequence was that the reimbursement reform created some new disparities between municipalities in the compensation system, and this had to be taken into account. This has been done by making a temporary arrangement so that the imbalances which arose as a result of the reorganization of the reimbursement system are somewhat relaxed. And you can't turn against that part of it. Since there has been a willingness to create new imbalances with a change in the refund system, yes, it is a good thing that a tiny bit of attention is being paid to it by making a temporary change in the compensation system, and that is the temporary change that we have to deal with here, and it can also be supported by Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102428	Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. Welcome to sir. Villum Christensen of the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102438	Thank you. I don't think the government is hoping that all the problems will be solved with this pool allocation. But it goes without saying that when you turn the screws in here, it is very important for the municipalities' economy. I am not going to repeat the many views on the great differences that we see in the municipal landscape, but just note that with this scheme we are aiming the outer municipalities rather than the large municipalities in the metropolitan area, which are actually characterised by brimming municipal coffers. So thank you for that change. We also look forward very much to the fact that when we get the final reform in 2019, which I understand we have pushed it to, we take care of the municipalities that have, like, entered a vicious circle. I will not mention names, but we all know them, and we know the examples. It can be incredibly difficult for a city council politician to look at the development that just goes the wrong way; it gets like a self-fulfilling prophecy that every time you do something, it goes the wrong way, because in these allocations there are some structures that make the most disadvantaged municipalities often even worse off, as the development goes on, it can be said that justice is not static, because there is always a population development that goes in and changes the framework conditions for the municipalities. That is why I am very pleased that we will also have a more permanent approach to this problem in the new system. And, of course, we have to push this reimbursement scheme in the field of employment so that it goes one more year. That's the second part of the bill. On that basis, the Liberal Alliance can support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102639	Thank you, sir. Villum Christensen. We shall move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Mr Beazley. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102656	Thank you. In the alternative, we are also pragmatically in favour of this proposal. We were sorry that the pool of 120 million. kr. We do not think that this new pool is a substitute for it. But that should not lead us to vote against a good small step in the economic arming of the poor peripheral municipalities. I would have liked it not to have been dropped from 420 million. kr. EUR 300 million; kr. But we can agree to the first point. With regard to the second point, we would also like to support and maintain the compensation arrangements, so that there is peace in relation to these compensatory differences as long as the property assessment system is in preparation. When it is finished, it would be really nice to have a quick and permanent solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102755	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn from the Radical Left. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102806	Thank you, President. The Radical Left is in favour of a balanced redistribution which ensures that municipalities are compensated for demographic, structural and employment challenges. At the same time, we are concerned that the changes in compensation are also taking place so that the municipalities can adjust and adapt in line with the changed economy. If we are to have a country in balance where it is also attractive to settle outside the big cities, we must ensure that there is reasonable distribution and that the challenges and demographic challenges that development presents in some of the country's outermost municipalities are taken into account. That is why we also welcome the fact that the Minister's proposal is de facto about making the special social subsidy pool a priority effort in the outermost municipalities of the country, and the question then is whether the pool is large enough, but at least the Radical Left will follow that closely. This is where you are not automatically involved in a recovery in these parts of the country, and the relocation and job opportunities are also different from those in larger cities. We also welcome the second part of the proposal, which extends the reimbursement in the field of employment, so that work on adjusting the compensation can also continue.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102927	Thank you to Mrs Sanne Bjørn. The next rapporteur we welcome is Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen from the SF.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223102934	Thank you very much. The proposal contains, as has already been said many times now, two elements. One is the special grant pool of 300 million. kr. financed by the block grant, so municipalities all contribute a little to the outskirts municipalities. That is sensible, and the question is mostly whether that is enough. The draft law says that the money is distributed according to objective criteria, and that may mean a little of each, so we will try to clarify what criteria are now. Although it is good to give priority to the outskirts, I will not fail to note that it is a problem that the pool replaces some pools that also gave subsidies to urban municipalities with many social problems, although this is not something that happens with this bill. We have heard that the government is saying that it is very concerned about solving problems in vulnerable residential areas, so I am concerned that this subsidy facility has now been abolished for the municipalities concerned. It is not wrong to give money to the outskirts, but it should be a boat and, without having to advance the Minister's line, I have listened to the fact that many rapporteurs here have also said roughly the same thing, so perhaps there was a basis for looking at that part too. The second thing you do is to extend the transitional arrangements that have been made following the government's reimbursement reform by one year, so it applies in 2018. This is done because work on a lasting solution has not been completed. This reflects a fundamental problem. A refund reform was rushed through without having given enough thought to the burden-sharing consequences, because when you reduce the reimbursement for example. In the case of early retirement, you are hitting municipalities with many early retirement workers, and these are practically exactly outskirts municipalities. It is really, really difficult to deal with the financial burden through adjustments in the compensation system, and therefore, reimbursement and burden-sharing should be resolved at once rather than rushing through the reimbursement reform and hoping that the burden-sharing problem could be resolved. I know that it is very much the Ministry of Finance that has steered that process, and that again is an example of how we do not always have things under control. The SF expects to vote in favour of the bill. It is a necessary patch solution to a larger and partly self-created problem.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103201	Thank you to Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. And we welcome Mr. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103209	Thank you. The draft law contains, as has been mentioned earlier, two elements: a proposal to create a special grant pool for particularly disadvantaged municipalities and then an extension of the temporary compensation scheme introduced in 2016 to apply until a new compensatory model has been established. And the Conservative People's Party cannot surprisingly support both elements of the bill. The draft law provides for the establishment of a special grant pool, which will be targeted at municipalities which already have a very tight economy. It is municipalities that are experiencing a negative spiral in which the population is falling and there are increasing numbers of elderly and caring citizens, while the employment rate among the citizens of working age is relatively low. It's municipalities that are having a really hard time. The plot will therefore focus particularly on peripheral and rural municipalities, which also generally have to be said to be municipalities most in need of extra financial support. It is important that we create a better balance for Denmark, where as a citizen of peripheral municipalities you also have access to the basic welfare benefits that you have in the rest of the country. It must not be the address that determines whether you can get proper and dignified care when you get older or whether your children can go to a school of proper standards, because it creates frustrations. I know it myself from where I live. You get frustrated when you as a citizen experience that shops close, that houses cannot be sold and that there is more and more municipal service. And that happens, at the same time that in other parts of the country, in other municipalities you have boxes filled as never before. It creates frustration and it is an imbalance that is being created and it is important that we get everyone involved. It is sound conservative policy that aid should start from the bottom up, so that we first help the most vulnerable. And it is, in fact, also a principle that permeates precisely this particular proposal for a special grant pool, a pool where we start from helping the most disadvantaged municipalities first. With those comments, I would like to say that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103417	Thank you, sir. Anders Johansson. Then we have come to the proposer, who is identical to the Minister for Economic Affairs and the Interior. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103430	Thank you very much for the rarely benevolent treatment of this matter. This is a good thing, and there should in fact be more attention sometimes to those cases where there is a broad consensus in the Danish Parliament about implementing the legislative proposals, and not just the conflicts that exist. There are some who have sometimes been in doubt whether it is only fun and a dance of roses to join a government, but I can say that as a representative of the Liberal Alliance it is at least something of an experience to be allowed to be the proposer and then get such broad support in the Folketing, so thank you for that experience. The overall aim of the proposal here is to create a new special grant pool for municipalities in a particularly difficult economic situation. With the proposal, the government has sought to create a very simple administration where the municipalities know the distribution of grants in good time, so that no problems arise locally, and so that no money and time is to be spent on the application process. In addition, the draft law, which many have also mentioned during the debate, provides for the extension of the temporary compensation scheme for 2016 and 2017 as a result of the conversion of employment to take effect for 2018. This is a consequence of the fact that the work to prepare for changes in the equalisation system resulting from the presentation of a new property assessment system has been extended so that changes will only take effect from 2019. There have also been several speeches about what else is thought of the equalisation system and who needs some extra funding. After all, the starting point for this pool is the financial agreement made by the former Left Government with the Danish People's Party, the Liberal Alliance and the Conservative People's Party, where it was agreed that the special grant should be distributed on the basis of a low tax base, objective criteria for demographic challenges, for example in terms of decreasing population and an increasing proportion of older citizens, structural challenges, such as low population density and long distances, and finally employment challenges in terms of a weak labour market due to relatively few jobs in the municipality and relatively large distances to the nearest city. It is therefore a deliberate political priority that has been carried out with this new pool, and I would very much like to be targeted for this, also following on from the discussions that have taken place. If there are further questions, to the extent that I am qualified to do so, I will be available for oral answers from now on, otherwise a written question will have to be asked, and I am sure that we will be able to answer them as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103727	It will then turn out. In any case, there is one question at first, and that is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103734	Thank you. I would just like to comment on the Minister's pleasure in having been so well welcomed here in the Danish Parliament and say that every time a minister from the Liberal Alliance comes here in Parliament and recognises that there are municipalities that lack money for core welfare, we in the Danish People's Party will always welcome a minister from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103754	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103755	I am quite happy about this, as long as the Danish People's Party is also open to the fact that the funding will eventually be via the block grant. Then I think we can find each other.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103807	The questioner. Fine, there were no more questions, and we thank the Minister. As no one else has asked to speak, the debate is closed. I propose that the bill be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, Internal Affairs and the Committee on Children's Rights. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103827	The debate is open. The first to speak is the Minister for the Elderly. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223103857	Thank you, President. Thank you for the floor. SF has tabled motion for a resolution B 39, which calls on the government to put forward a draft law on a reduction in elderly care from 2018 to 2021 and financial compensation for municipalities for the growth of older citizens. In the comments to the proposal, SF states that it will provide security for the individual elderly to know that no money is removed per year. older in the municipality and that the cut-off stop means that there will be no further deterioration in the area of the elderly. To create security for the elderly, I think it is very relevant and important. However, I do not believe that the proposal is the right way to create security. Dignified care cannot be reduced to a matter of money alone. It is also very much about how we spend the money and about management and values in care for the elderly. And then I think that the resolution has some unfortunate side effects, which I would like to warn against. Firstly, in Denmark we have municipal autonomy. This means that the municipalities can independently carry out and organise their work within a legislative and financial framework. I think that's a good idea. I believe that local people have more knowledge of the needs and wishes of the individual citizen than we have here at Christiansborg. If we lock up the costs of the elderly, we will deprive municipalities of the opportunity to give priority to expenditure in accordance with local needs, thereby limiting municipal autonomy, and that is the wrong way to go. Secondly, the proposers have not told us how to find the money for the proposal. The proposers estimate that it will cost 5.6 billion. kr., and if money is not included, this means that the money must be given priority in such a way that it is taken from other municipal tasks. Again I would like to say that I do not think that we from Christiansborg should decide in detail how elected municipal councils give priority to their money for individual tasks. We will get to that with SF's approach. It is the individual municipality that must look at local challenges and needs and prioritise between, for example. the elderly area and the children's area. I would also like to point out that the proposal envisages burdening municipalities with a great deal of bureaucracy. The municipalities must document in detail how they spend the extra money in the area of the elderly. Again, I would say that I think this is the wrong way to go. Thirdly, I believe that by giving the municipalities a fixed amount in advance for the elderly area, we will have a lower impact on the money we spend. This happens simply because we reduce the motivation of the municipalities to continue to develop the area of the elderly. If municipalities with e.g. a new organisation of tasks can free money that they can use for other initiatives, they will try to do so. However, if the money is locked, we risk the task solution developing less because the municipalities do not gain anything from it. Instead, our older citizens stand as losers because care and care have not improved and employees are not given the opportunity to participate in the development of the area. I think that is the wrong way to go. Fourthly, there can be no similarity between how much money we spend and the service provided by the municipalities, although there is of course a connection. In addition, the increase in the number of elderly people will not necessarily require a corresponding increase in older people's expenditure. There are several good reasons for this. The municipalities are constantly improving their efforts, e.g. by better organisation or with new welfare technology. The increase in the number of elderly has mainly occurred among the youngest elderly, who are less dependent on care. There is increased focus on rehabilitation. The health of the elderly has improved and their care needs have diminished. So if we force the municipalities to spend more money in the area of the elderly in line with an increasing number of older people, we risk not spending the money the best possible way and where it gives the greatest value. As a politician, I believe that we have a duty to ensure that the tax dollars entrusted to us will have the greatest possible effect on the citizens who have helped to pay the money. Again I would say that I think it is the wrong way to go if we require municipalities to spend a certain amount on the elderly. All in all, there is no doubt about my assessment of the motion for a resolution. The government gives priority to the elderly area, but we want another way. We have, among other things. in the last two financial laws, where the three-clover parties, together with the Danish People's Party, have allocated additional funds for increased self-determination and more dignity in the care of the elderly. We've set aside 1 billion. kr. Annually to more dignity in the care of the elderly, 380 million. kr. for a cutting card for all elderly people in nursing homes and 450 million. kr. in 2017 for better food and to get the kitchens back to the nursing homes. These are priorities which will make a difference to the elderly and which I am very pleased to lead as the Minister for the Elderly. The government cannot therefore support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104417	Thank you from here, too. There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104426	Thank you. I noted that the Minister for the Elderly said that more money is not the way to go, and I just want to know whether the Minister for the Elderly is of the opinion, with the revelations of very unworthy care conditions in recent weeks, that the standards should be good enough in the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104448	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104450	It is clear that there is room for improvement, but I am very pleased to be able to say that the current government parties and the Danish People's Party, with the last two years of finance agreements, have shown that we give priority to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104508	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104510	However, despite the older billions, which are earmarked money, which the municipalities cannot decide for themselves what they want to spend, it has nevertheless become apparent that there were major problems in the care of the elderly. And recent days' revelations of very, very unworthy conditions call for a solution. And when you get more and more elderly, does the Minister think that it is possible to solve the tasks with the same resources?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104537	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104538	A number of initiatives have been launched over the last two years, which will help to improve the care of the elderly and will strengthen the dignity of the elderly, among others. Dignity policies and dignity billions. And in the 2017 Finance Act there are new initiatives about kitchens in nursing homes and the clip card for the nursing home residents. In addition, together with KL and with the close involvement of organisations in this area, I have started work to see whether there are inappropriate rules and ill-thought-out documentation requirements that take the time of the staff and that stand in the way of the elderly being able to receive good and worthy care and care.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104623	Mrs. Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104625	Yes, I would like to thank the Minister for her reply, but I have to follow up on my colleague's question, because the Minister keeps referring to the financial laws of the two previous years when she talks about the financing of dignified care for the elderly in the future. And it is not, in fact, those who are being debated. What is under discussion is the financial framework for dignified care for the elderly in the future. The government has reported very clearly here, among other things. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. In fact, between 1 and 1.5 billion will be missing. kr. in the year, even when account has been taken of the fact that the elderly are more healthy and healthy. How can the Minister measure that there will also be dignified care for the elderly in the future, when every year the municipalities must start by reducing the care and care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104710	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104711	The current government parties, together with the Danish People's Party, have agreed in the last two financial agreements that we give priority to care for the elderly. It is not only useful to focus on whether there is a government base on this point about 0.3 per cent. Because the government's basis also provides for a number of adjustments, which means that money is released that can be spent on our core welfare. This shows that we have a belief that a better public sector is not only about adding money; it is also about many other things. Among other things: We will look at management and also at the values that things are being done after out there. So we believe that the tasks in the public sector can be solved in a smarter way, where there is also a focus on the needs of the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104802	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104804	I believe that the Minister has very broad support in this Parliament for debureaucratising. I think we will agree on that in all the parties when I look around the Chamber. But is the Minister here today saying that the debureaucratisation will be able to do so against the billions of kroner that will be missing year by year towards 2025 as a result of the government's economic policy? So, figures from the Ministry of Finance show that by 2025 we will have 16,000 fewer employees in the public sector. And it's just to keep the level we have today. Does the Minister seriously believe that one can debureaucratize oneself out of it, or is it because the Minister does not really want to stand here and admit that the government's economic policy will mean that the municipalities will have to start every budgetary year cutting down and finding savings in the area of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104849	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104850	For us, it is about dignified care and care for the elderly and much more than money. Of course, money is important, and this also shows that this government gives priority to the elderly in both the 2016 Finance Act with the dignity billion and again for 2017 with the 2 billion. kr., which is allocated to e.g. kitchens it's the 450 million. kr. So we believe that we can have a better public sector and that it is not just about adding money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104927	Then it's mr. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223104931	Yes, and sir. Finn Sørensen very sorry that he hadn't put the phone on silently. If there's a ticket box, I'll be happy to contribute to it. The minister keeps saying that money alone doesn't. There is no one here in the Folketing who believes that money alone does it. That is not what we are discussing. What we're discussing is that without money it hurts. And that is what we have seen for years more and more examples of, namely that there is no worthy care for the elderly in this country. Would the Minister not like to consider that the costs of the municipalities per year? have fallen steadily since 2008, and that they also continue to fall in 2016, despite the addition of an older billion and clipping cards?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105023	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105024	It is worth noting if we compare 2016 with 2015, that the municipalities have overall budgeted with increased spending on the elderly area of 1.2 billion. kr. And the preliminary estimate of the municipalities' budgets for 2017 shows that the municipalities' expenditure on the elderly area is increasing by a further 0.7 billion. kr. From 2016 to 2017, taking into account the boost resulting from the Finance Law Agreements. So the fact is that, overall, the municipalities spend more money in the area of the elderly under this government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105058	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105059	Thank you. However, what I would like the Minister to say is that the municipalities spend less money per year. older. It is true that the municipalities are budgeting 42.5 billion. kr. in the area of the elderly in 2016. That's 1.9%. more than in 2015, but this does not correspond at all to the increase in the number of older people over 80 years, because that number is expected to increase by 2.2%. It's just within a year, and that, of course, is the development we've seen all the way through. That is why it is quite natural to discuss a cut-off. Would the Minister not like to relate to the fact that since 2008 more and more money has been spent every year. in this country, and that this trend continues and that it will continue in the coming years with the government's financial bill and plans for a 0.3% public growth, which does not really match the increase in the number of elderly and heavily care-intensive older people over 80 years?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105204	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105205	Now there can be no similarity between how much money we spend and the service the municipalities provide, although there is of course a connection. In addition, the increase in the number of elderly people will not necessarily require a corresponding increase in older people's expenditure. There are several reasons for this. The municipalities are constantly improving their efforts, e.g. by better organisation or with new welfare technology. The increase in the number of elderly people has mainly occurred among the youngest elderly, who are less dependent on care, and there has also been a very good focus on rehabilitation. And then the health of the elderly has improved, and that is welcome, and their care needs have thus diminished.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105246	Thank you. And then it's sir. Magnus Heunicke.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105253	Thank you. I would really like to hear the Minister's opinion. After all, this debate is about the future of our elderly, the financial framework and the security of care for the elderly. And you know that the future offers that there will be more older people in this country, and if you look forward to 2025, you will actually see that we will be 200,000 more older people over 70 years of age, and it is true, as the Minister said, that many remain healthy thank God for that! And that is why the Ministry of Finance has calculated that if you are to be able to maintain the same service and reap the benefits of more older people over 70 years of age who remain healthy and so on, then it will require this 0.6% increase in expenditure, and there is the fact that the government is far below. So my question to the Minister, to which it might be interesting to have a clear answer: is it the case that the government has a policy that there should be more staff for the welfare of the elderly? Or should there be just as many, or should there be fewer employees? We know that there will be much more older people, and should there be more employees? Is it government policy that there should be more, just as many or fewer employees in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105415	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105416	It is clear that as a government you will follow developments out there and act on it. Some initiatives have also been set in motion. We have to say that this government gives priority to the elderly, so we will keep up with developments in this area.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105437	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105438	Oh, my God! I must then try to ask again, because we need a clear answer. What was given was the opposite, and we know that there are more older people. So my question is quite basically and it can't come as a surprise to the elderly minister that she gets this question: is it government policy that there should be more employees for our elderly, as many as today or fewer? That is the question. Perhaps it would be possible to get a clear answer to that question. Should there be more employees for our elderly, like many in the same day or less in the future? What is government policy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105529	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105530	After all, it is the Ministry of Finance that has projected the demography, which is why it is also the Ministry of Finance who can best explain the details of the projections. There is no 1:1 relationship between more elderly people and the cost of the elderly. Several older people cannot be mechanically converted into specific expenditures. In other words, the increase in the number of elderly people will not necessarily require a corresponding increase in the cost of the elderly. As I said, there are several reasons for this, among others. municipalities improve ongoing efforts; welfare technology; that an increase in the number of elderly has occurred primarily among the youngest elderly, who are less dependent on care; that there is increased focus on rehabilitation; and that the health status of older people has improved and their care needs are therefore less.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105615	Next is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup. No, it was a mistake. There is one more that would like to make a brief comment. Sir. Jeppe Jakobsen, please.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105639	Thank you. It is quite true, as the Minister says, that it is the younger elderly who come from the beginning. But I hope that we can agree in this way that we hope that these younger elderly people will also be allowed to one day become older and that they will be allowed to experience that joy. That is why, in the long term, pressure will be exerted on the elderly if it is to maintain the same level. That is why I agree with the Minister that this proposal may not be the best tool to take, but rather that we should look at the economic negotiations with the municipalities. And there I just want to hear what notes have been given by the Elders' Ministry to the Ministry of Finance in relation to the need for an economic agreement with the municipalities. Is there a priority for the government in relation to the fact that the municipalities must also give priority to the elderly area as much as the Danish People's Party has helped the government prioritise the elderly area?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105744	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105745	I appreciate that the Danish People's Party has helped create the conditions that exist today. That is very important. I am not going to stand here today and tell you what the financial framework will be like in the future, but it is clear that we must ensure that we create a good framework for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105806	We thank the Minister for the Elderly and turn to the rapporteurs of the parties. The first is Mrs Astrid Krag from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223105821	Thank you. I think the Minister is taller than I am. I'm gonna have to run down the platform. Let me start by saying that I have great sympathy for the SF resolution that we are discussing here today. I fully share the analysis that, with the government's economic policy, we are going to see an elderly care and public welfare at all under great pressure. By 2025 we will be more than 200,000 older people over 70 years of age here in Denmark, and although more will live longer, more will be healthy and healthy, we cannot ensure the necessary care and care for them if the municipalities are to start cutting back every year. I just have to say it quite clearly to the Minister for the Elderly here today. I see the Minister is still down here in the back of the Chamber: we cannot provide the framework for dignified care for the elderly in the future by means of de-bureaucratisation and better management alone. It's a fatamorgana, a desk drill to pretend it's enough. Dignified care for the elderly is also very much a question of the adequate financial framework. We know, it is not out of thin air, but from figures from the Ministry of Finance. As a result of the increasing number of elderly people up to 2025 alone, it will cost 2.5 to 3 billion. kr. To maintain the level of welfare we have today on an annual basis, bearing in mind that more elderly people will be healthy and healthier than before. That has been taken into account in those figures. However, the government's government base only provides an average annual growth of public consumption corresponding to approx. One-and-a-half billion. kr. annual. According to the Ministry of Finance's own calculations, it means that there will be 16,000 fewer public employees in 2025 than today in relation to the level of care we have today, which is fine in some places, but unfortunately other places also offer stories about older people sitting in wet diapers for far too long and have to wait too many hours to go to the bathroom. We know the sad stories. It goes without saying that we must save another 1.5 billion. kr. Year by year, it will be felt by the elderly. That's not gonna work. That is why, in the Social Democrats too, we have ensured in our economic input to the 2025 negotiations, which then did not become so much, that there is an economic space of the average 3 billion. kr. annually up to 2025, so that we can ensure security about our welfare also for the elderly. So we are fully in line with the SF in relation to the intentions of the proposal, but we cannot support the concrete motion for a resolution in which there is a new structure with legislation from the Folketing on the economic priorities in relation to the municipalities and an ongoing amount of bureaucracy in relation to annual applications and documentation. It is the responsibility and duty of the current government at all times to negotiate the economy with the municipalities in the annual economic negotiations and then, moreover, to answer for them afterwards. In addition to this, the motion for a resolution states that the total amount of compensation will amount to 5.6 billion. kr. It is not clear how it is to be financed, and for this reason too the Social Democrats cannot support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110134	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110137	Thank you. And I would like to thank the rapporteur, whom I agree with in the criticism of the government's policy in this area. If we look forward a little, then the main point is that with a growth of 0.3 per cent, which the government is proposing, we will not be able to match the large increase in the number of older citizens, including those over 80 years of age. So we have to get at least the 0.6% that the Minister of Finance has calculated to do in order to cope with the demographic trait, as it says in that language. Then it is just that I ask the rapporteur whether it is the case that the Social Democratic Party, both on the Board of Directors of the Municipalities' Association and here in the Danish Parliament, will help to ensure that no economic agreement is reached unless it meets the economic growth that we agree at least needs to be achieved.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110237	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110239	Yes, I think that it might in fact be a bigger break than the SF motion for a resolution if I were to stand here in the Chair during the debate on a motion for a resolution and start negotiating on behalf of my party's members on the KL's Board of Directors in the context of the economic negotiations that will take place here sometime in the spring. However, I can say, as I also said in my rapporteur's speech, that in the Social Democrat proposal for negotiations on the 2025 plan with the government, we have secured funding for the money to be able to keep up with what you say in finance ministers' language is called demography, that is, that there must be money for our welfare, even in the future, towards 2025. That is the position of the Socialist Group. But we must not go into specific economic negotiations on behalf of either side of the House here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110325	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110326	Thank you. I am well aware of the position of the Social Democrats with the 0.6%, and it is at least twice as good as that of the government, but if it is good enough then we will have to find out when we get a majority together. However, the rapporteur himself gives the ball up, because the rapporteur points out something that is absolutely right, namely that in here at Christiansborg we can have all sorts of objectives for how much we need to improve welfare in the municipalities, but if the National Association of Municipalities signs an economic agreement that actually means that the development where there is less money per person. We have at least two parties in here, and the Danish People's Party and the Social Democratic Party have said that if there is an agreement, we will vote in favour of it, even if it means that the ugly development we have seen over many years continues. That is why I would like to hear the rapporteur's position on it. It is the rapporteur himself who gives the ball by referring to the economic agreement. So will the rapporteur's party say 'yes' to an economic agreement which means that the tedious developments in which the welfare of the elderly in this country is deteriorating are continuing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110436	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110438	Well, the Enhedslisten's rapporteur reveals it in his long question itself, namely that it is of course not something that we two rapporteurs have to stand here and discuss hypothetically with each other. What I say in my speech is, after all, respect for the contractual system that exists and that I believe that a very large part of the responsibility is borne by the government that sits. That is why I am very, very excited to see what is happening. We have now heard an elderly minister say that we should just take it easy, that more money will come to the municipalities. She doesn't want to end the government's economic policy. But the first opportunity we get to weigh the minister and the government on this is, of course, when we see what kind of presentation they will make to the economic negotiations that will be with the municipalities this spring. And I think there are many of us who will keep a very close eye on that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110520	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110522	I also welcome the fact that Mrs Astrid Krag and I agree that more money is needed if we are to solve the problems of the elderly. Mrs Astrid Krag and I have been sitting in several consultations over the last few weeks, when we have dealt with the elderly minister on the issue of the lack of follow-up to really critical care conditions. I have seen the drawing that Mrs Astrid Krag has produced during a consultation. It shows the difference between not forecasting the economy and the need for projection in order to meet the challenge of demographic development. This proposal takes account of the fact that it is not the 65-year-olds who are necessarily first in line. Can it be expected that the Social Democratic Party agrees that proposals must be put forward to meet precisely this particular problem of huge care challenges in the care of the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110631	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110633	We have made very clear in our proposal for the 2025 negotiations, which is after all the debris on the basis of some very long top tax discussions, as I remember, that we will use the room for manoeuvre that exists to ensure that the economy follows demography. I was just doing my sketch from the consultation again. I think I will have to put it on some social medium soon, because it is the huge problem that, although older Mr. Jensen, who I have tried to draw, is becoming healthier and healthier, so there is a big gap between the increase that the government wants in public budgets and what is needed, according to the Ministry of Finance, just to keep up with today. I would say that I do not really see that we have been sitting on the conciliation and thundering. In fact, I think we have a very good tone and a good atmosphere between us and the Minister, but I very much agree with Mrs Kirsten Normann that we have just been able to point out that there is not enough to take off out there today. So many places have been cut into the leg, and there are too many examples of things that are just not worthy. Therefore, it is very untenable to have a government which insists on having what is really less growth year by year in the area of the elderly. It just doesn't work out. I very, very much agree with the SF on that. So I do not agree quite so much with the method. It might be that SF here will reveal how it is intended to finance this cost of 5.6 billion. kr. After all, it is a kind of money both at the beginning and at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110750	The questioner. The next is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110757	Thank you. At any rate, I agree with the Social Democrat rapporteur that 5.6 billion. kr. Also is some kind of money. And I certainly share the point of departure that we should not stand here in the Chamber today and abolish municipal self-government. Having said that, I am a little surprised by the recent interest in the area of the elderly shown by Social Democracy. I can only welcome this, but I would just like to ask the Social Democratic rapporteur here to confirm that, overall, the municipalities spend more money in the area of the elderly under the current government than under the previous social democratic government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110844	This can be done shortly by saying that more older people have arrived so that more money is spent. Nevertheless, I would like to add a few more words to this. After all, there is no recent interest in the area of the elderly. The current government, together with the Danish People's Party, has something called a dignified billion. When we had the power of government, something called an elderly billion. It was the same amount in kroner and ear. It has been given a new name and has been linked to some policies. That is a good thing, but it was precisely a government that was deeply concerned about the area of the elderly who placed an elderly billion together with its parliamentary basis. The rock map now in the country's nursing home was made from a model that came when we had government power that went to home care. That's how you could go on. Who put dementia on the agenda? I think Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt has been one of the only prime ministers and, at least, one of the first to stand on the platform and talk about dementia in an opening speech in the Folketing. So the attempt to draw a picture that there was no interest in the former socialist-led government for the elderly is wrong. I just have to say that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223110943	I would therefore like to acknowledge that together we have just launched a new national dementia action plan under the heading of the rate pool. Social democracy and all other parties besides Enhedslisten are included. I would like to sign for the work we have done together. However, I did not quite hear the rapporteur confirm that more money is being spent in the municipalities as a whole in the area of the elderly than did under the former Socialist-led government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111008	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111010	We have never concealed the fact that we took over government in the midst of an economic crisis. It was, in fact, everyone who held for this country to get us through that crisis, including the municipalities. That is also why there is such a tight financial framework out there in municipal care for the elderly right now, because it has been tough years. So I replied in my very first sentence to what the rapporteur asked. Yes, there is more money for the elderly in the municipalities, but there are also more elderly people. If you think this is an important point on the part of one of the government's parties, it gets off the ground, because it could mean that there are some who may be working within the government to ensure a more realistic framework for dignified care for the elderly in the future. Then the rapporteur must at least have my warm support in taking that fight in the Left and in the government.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111058	Then there are no more brief comments. Thank you to Mrs Astrid Krag, and welcome to Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111105	Thank you. Let me start by stating that I share the concern that has led the SF to present the motion for a resolution here. At a time when we are seeing more and more elderly people, more and more demented and more and more pressure on our care for the elderly, it is incomprehensible to me, both as a member of the parliament, but also as a former member of the municipal council, that one can choose to cut care for the elderly in a municipality. That is why I can understand the idea that has led the SF to table the resolution here today, simply to put a bottom below how much one is allowed to cut in the area of older people as a municipal council. If, however, we do not choose to support the resolution here today, it is, as many other rapporteurs have also mentioned, because this is a subject which rightly falls within the scope of the economic agreement between the government and the municipalities. There should be no doubt about what we are calling on the government to take to the negotiating table and what we are calling on our members of the KL board to ask the negotiators to go to that negotiating table. It is that there must be a hand held under the elderly area. It is, of course, a pity that the Minister for Finance is not here today, so that we as a whole could say that this is something that matters to the Folketing. It is also something that should mean something to the government, especially when you have an elderly minister who says that the government gives priority to the elderly. So we would also like to see that implemented in the context of the economic negotiations. Then, as rapporteur for one of the parties responsible for the Finance Act, I must also say that this is a good custom when you have a good deal more than 5 billion. kr., just to indicate where that money is to come from. You don't do that in this case. It also makes it somewhat difficult for us to support the proposal. Finally, I would like to mention that, in connection with the rate pool, we have set aside some funds to be used to create a model for measuring the quality of care for the elderly, including across municipalities. This is a discussion which I think is very relevant. When it is implemented, I am also looking forward to seeing whether we are not, among other things, looking forward to seeing whether we are not doing so. together with the SF could look at solutions that make us at least put a bottom below the quality experienced by our older fellow citizens. We share the concern about the elderly, which has been broken down and needs to be rebuilt, but we do not feel that this tool is right when it comes to building up again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111411	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111413	Thank you. Thank you to the rapporteur, and thank you for your concern for the elderly, who are also glowing from the rapporteur's speech. I would just like the rapporteur to confirm that the Danish People's Party, as a parliamentary party and as a party on the board of the National Association of Municipalities itself, is jointly responsible and is behind the economic policy that has led to an ever-increasing use of money per year since 2008. older in the municipalities, of course on average. The Danish People's Party has supported economic agreements that have had this consequence in the Danish Parliament and in KL, and the Danish People's Party is behind a budget law with a very, very strict policy towards the municipalities with sanctions and, in general, an economic framework for the municipalities, which means that the municipalities are forced to save, not because they want to, but because a majority of Christiansborg forces them to do so, including the Danish People's Party. I just need to know if the Danish People's Party can confirm that this is the case.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111517	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111519	Sir. Finn Sørensen knows just as well as I do that it is not the Danish People's Party that has members sitting at the negotiating table, neither as government representative nor as negotiators for the municipalities. So we're not the ones making the final deals. It is true that we will vote in favour of those agreements when they come in this Chamber, and that is because such an economic agreement is not just about the elderly, but it is about the whole economy of the municipalities. Therefore, if we were to say on one parameter that we want to override a whole agreement, then we might as well not hold these negotiations and then just agree the economy of the municipalities in this Chamber. If we go where the municipalities do not want to negotiate, but instead we think that the Folketing should decide their economy, then it is clear that we are also going into it. And then we're gonna have to look at ensuring the conditions of the elderly. Let me just add that it is clear that, when it comes to the economic agreements in which cuts have been made in the area of the elderly, when we have had the possibility of financial legislation, we have, among other things, matched it. a dignity billionaire, cutting-edge schemes and more money for food for the elderly. So when we have direct responsibility, we also go in and say that if the agreements made by the municipalities and the government are too bad for the elderly, then we will correct that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111635	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111636	Thank you very much. I think that was a whole new variation in the definition of responsibility. Well, I guess they're the ones who vote for the responsibility in the end. It is true that some negotiators are being sent in here in the Danish Parliament in relation to the government, and this is what is being done in the economic negotiations and in the KL, but the agreements will not be implemented unless there is a majority for them in the KL and here in the Danish Parliament, and I just want to confirm that the Danish People's Party is part of the majority that has been pursuing an economic policy for years, which has forced the municipalities to save, and which therefore also forces the municipalities to save in the area of the elderly. That is just what I wanted to confirm, i.e. that the Danish People's Party is part of a majority.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111729	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111729-2	But it is not true that the municipalities are forced to save in the area of the elderly. This is something that each municipal council decides in the course of its budget negotiations, in other words where they will translate the conditions that exist, and, furthermore, when we have set aside earmarked pools specifically for the elderly, the municipalities have all the prerequisites for ensuring that the elderly area does not experience savings. It's not in here in the Folketing that we make the municipal budgets. We are setting out a framework, and within that framework there are some options. Even under the former Social Democratic-led government, which led to less growth towards the municipalities, as a municipal councillor I have been able, for years, to keep an older area of savings free from budget expenditure. So you can, if you want, even if there are some other conditions on the part of the Danish Parliament.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111819	Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111821	I am, of course, very pleased that the Danish People's Party shares the concern about the care of the elderly, and Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen and I have been in consultation together and have just discussed these things with unfortunate conditions in the care of the elderly, so I wonder. I understand that 5 billion. kr. is a great deal of money when it comes to demographics, compared to how many more older people we get, and it has been taken into account that it is the elders who most need help, but then I just have the question: What is the Danish People's Party's bid for what is needed of money to solve the task in the future?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111859	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111900	Without really remembering what this percentage is in relation to growth, I believe that we have stated in the past that it is 0.7 per cent of the growth in municipal budgets that is needed if we are to be able to receive reasonable welfare, or at least the same welfare, and that remains our ambition, and that is what we are trying to push the government to do in the first place in the context of the economic agreements. And if we do not deliver there, we will take the demands into account in the budget negotiations, where we also give priority to core welfare.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111938	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111939	Well, then I'll just have to see if Mr. Keating's gonna be okay. Jeppe Jakobsen agrees with me that the examples of extremely unworthy care in recent weeks are an expression of the fact that resources have simply not been allocated enough so that it follows demographic developments in relation to care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111955	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223111956	I agree that not enough money has been set aside in the municipalities in general, but I believe that within the framework of the financial laws to which we have voted, funds have been set aside for the growth that is needed in order to obtain the same quality of care for the elderly as has been the case up to now. We will also work forward to ensure that the economic policy pursued at national level also leaves room for dignified care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112028	Thank you, sir. Jeppe Jakobsen. There are no more brief comments, so we will move on to Mrs Jane Heitmann from the Left, the Danish Liberal Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112039	Thank you. Today we are debating the SF resolution on a reduction in elderly care and financial compensation for municipalities for the growth of older citizens. I must be quite honest and say that I almost had the morning coffee in my throat when I read the motion for a resolution, because the reality is that, overall, the municipalities spend more money in the area of the elderly under this government than under the former Socialist-led government. However, I recognise that we are facing a reality with an increasing number of elderly people who, in time, will require care and, of course, also have a need for treatment. This is an issue which we in the Left take very seriously. Indeed, we take it so seriously that since the change of government in 2015 we have had a very sharp focus on the elderly area. We have received an elderly minister, and the Left, together with the other civil parties, has secured a marked boost for the elderly area. Let me give you a few examples: with the 2016 Finance Act, we set aside 1 billion. kr. extra, namely the dignity billion, and with the 2017 Finance Act we have over a four-year period added to the elderly area 2 billion. kr. extra. We have set aside funds to strengthen the efforts of the elderly medical patient, because it is our view that it is unworthy for our elderly people to be in public view on cold hospital walkways rather than being screened in hot bedrooms, and we have just launched a completely new national dementia action plan together with the SF. The hand on the heart, I do not think there are many who doubt that we on the Left are even very concerned about ensuring our elderly a dignified old age with self-determination and influence on their own lives. The influence and the right to decide and choose for ourselves are essential turning points for us in the Left. Yes, I would go so far as to say that these are liberal core values. It is therefore surprising that the SF now wants to limit municipal autonomy by fixing the costs of the elderly area. This is incomprehensible to me. I have been in municipal politics for more than 10 years, and one of the great strengths of Danish democracy is precisely local self-government. The municipalities are closest to the citizens, and they know where the shoe prints. And from my chair it will be deeply problematic if we here at Christiansborg manage the municipal budgets and deprive individual municipal councils of the opportunity to prioritise across service areas. I have always appreciated the fact that local authorities can give priority, for example. schools, day care centres and the elderly according to the very different local needs of the municipality of Denmark. And it has actually been my impression that my former municipal political colleagues, including those from the SF, have appreciated that freedom. Now that we are in freedom, I am surprised that the SF has not taken the liberty of thinking the thought to the end. Because if you freeze expenditure in the area of the elderly, you take the initiative from the municipalities and remove the incentives to use resources in both the best and the wisest way. Let me give you another example: today there is a varied range of welfare technologies that help both employees and older citizens to improve their daily lives and, for some, a more self-reliant everyday life with more freedom. If we freeze the costs, we will remove the individual municipality's incentive to consider innovative solutions. Everyone can benefit from this and it can even free up financial resources which can be used either in other areas or for new initiatives in the area of the elderly. Economics at Christiansborg is also an important factor in prioritising state funds. And I have to understand that SF expects the compensation cost to the municipalities in 2017 to amount to 5.6 billion. kr. And I hope that later today the SF's rapporteur will reveal how the proposal is to be financed. I should now like to ask whether the idea is that other welfare areas should be maintained and, if so, which areas. Proposals which have not been financed are, in my opinion, a free round. Having said that, we in the Left recognise that in the coming years we will see an increase in the number of elderly people. And fortunately, the young elderly are a group that is relatively fresh and self-reliant and therefore does not have the same care and care needs as the elderly. This means that there is no one-to-one relationship between expenditure and service level. More older people do not have to mean exponentially increasing costs, especially if you have a strong focus in the municipalities on innovative solutions and welfare technology, and if we here in Christiansborg do not destroy the incentive structure that helps to maintain focus. If we on the Left cannot support the proposal, it is mainly for two reasons: the Left wants a strong municipal autonomy and it is put under pressure with the resolution here and, in addition, the resolution is unfunded at an estimated 5.6 billion. kr. The Left cannot therefore support the proposal, as does the Conservative People's Party, from which I welcome it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112549	There are a few brief comments. The first comment is from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112553	Thank you. When you hear the rapporteur from the Left, it is almost as if you forget that the rapporteur comes from a party that would actually have liked to see us have zero growth in the public sector, and that is not just missing the one and a half billion which we are going to miss with the government's policy, but as much as 3 billion. kr. Every year, just to keep up with the demography and the level we have now. Big words are used about how wild you are to be allowed to invest in welfare, but the truth is, if the Left could decide for itself, we should have zero growth in our welfare. That is the first question. The second is that the rapporteur himself now confronted me with how much money was spent under the various governments, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur to confirm that equal amounts of money have been spent per year. older in 2015 and in 2016. It is the key figures of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior, which show it around 41,000 DKK. per older people have been used for both years. The rapporteur is also very pleased to confirm this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112651	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112652	I think we should allow the Left to define its own policy itself and not put anything in their mouths. What is important to me is that we have dignified care for the elderly, that we have an elderly care which we can be familiar with, and that is one of the things that is important to me. The reason why we have set aside 1 billion together with the other blue parties. kr. We have also given priority to 2.2 billion. kr. over the next four years. As I said in my rapporteur's speech, this is a significant increase in the area of the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112724	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112725	I did not get an answer lately, and that is enough because the reality is that just as much money was spent per person. older in 2015 as in 2016. If you're going to be totally pedantic, and you might want to be, about 100 kroner was actually spent. more per older in 2015 than in 2016. I would just like to say to the rapporteur of the Left that I am not going to put anything in the left's mouth; it is the Left who has chosen to have zero growth in public welfare, and that is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur of the Left if it is not true that the policy on the elderly, the economic policy which the rapporteur of the Left now stands and highlights as extremely important, would not have been possible if the Left itself had obtained a majority in this Parliament and had been able to achieve their desire for zero growth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112806	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112807	For me, of course, it is about how we can ensure the best care for our elderly, how we can ensure the good schools, how we can ensure the good day care institutions. I just have to be completely honest and say that it isn't always equal to more money. It may be, but it isn't always. It is about using the resources at your disposal in the best way possible, so that makes sense. It does in the care of the elderly. Now I mentioned welfare technology here as one of the opportunities that we can actually get more for the money and at the same time make older citizens more self-help.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112843	Sir. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112846	Thank you. If you think it is so easy to get more for the money all the time, I do not understand why the Left has contributed to both an elderly billion in the 2014 Finance Act and now the Dignity Bill. It is, of course, a recognition that something is wrong, so that argument is not really coherent. I would just like to ask the rapporteur: is the Left happy with the development we have been able to see by the fact that, overall, since 2010 there has been a decrease in expenditure per person. In the case of older people over 65 years of age, and what is of interest is how much money there is per person. • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per cent elderly • 16 per
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112938	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223112940	I must be quite honest and say that I do not know what figures the questioner is referring to. What I can say is that I am both proud of and very, very pleased that I am part of a blue majority, a bourgeois government which has given priority to the elderly, which has given priority to an emergency package so that we can get older medical patients away from cold hospital halls and into warm rooms; that I am part of a blue majority who has given priority to a dignity billionaire so that we ensure that the elderly in the country's nursing homes receive a decent care. I am proud to be part of a bourgeois majority which has contributed to a national dementia action plan. I'm sorry Enhedslisten didn't want to join us.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113021	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113023	Well, that could have been done, because that action plan is an excellent thing. It has also been praised by Enhedslisten. It could have been financed in solidarity rather than left to all the poor people in this country who are on transfer income to finance it. It would probably make sense if it were also people like the rapporteur and myself who were allowed to contribute to it. So it's just an answer to that. I am glad that the Left has voted in favour of helping to add money to the area of the elderly. That's not what I'm criticizing. We are discussing whether this is enough to prevent further cuts. That is what we are discussing today's debate, and that is all I want the rapporteur to say about the fact that, even in 2017, the amount that has been paid will not be sufficient to take account of the increase in the number of older people over 80 years. We know very well that this is where the many carers are. That is what we are discussing. Will the rapporteur please deal with this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113128	I would very much like to do so, and I think I did so in my rapporteur's speech, where I said just now that you cannot move into a path where you do a 1:1 comparison or a 1:1 terminology. The reality is not that, because the elderly are different, and what we know is that the increase in the number of elderly is for the younger elderly, who, fortunately, have much, much better health than the elderly. After all, there is a difference between how much care and care a younger elderly person needs in terms of good health compared to an elderly person who is challenged in health. So I don't recognize the premise of trying to do this 1:1 terminology. It's not a reflection of reality.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113217	Then it's Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113221	Thank you. That feeling of getting the morning coffee up my throat, I know. In fact, I think that the last few months have shown a great many unfortunate examples of a lack of resources, unless we believe that it is bad will in the municipalities, that we see time and time again examples of citizens who are not being helped on time, who have to wait for toilet visits, who have to go in too wet diapers and who do not get help to eat. I do not think the rapporteur thinks that the municipalities are thinking this, and that is why the proposal is simply being put at risk in order to solve that particular problem. Yeah, 5 billion. kr. is a great deal of money that we will not force the municipalities to spend if it is the case that the resources are not there. I would just like to ask the Left's health rapporteur whether, in reality, the elderly billion is not also an expression of earmarking funds in the municipalities for a very specific purpose?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113319	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113321	I should like to start by saying that I have some doubts as to whether the rapporteur thinks the elderly billion or whether the rapporteur thinks the dignified billion is different. But the rapporteur can follow up with an answer to that in a moment. I would like to be quite honest and say that every time we have been able to follow on television these unfortunate cases of elderly citizens, which have not been dealt with in a dignified way for one reason or another, I am deeply touched by it. I get worried, and I get sad. Sometimes I also find it difficult to understand how it is possible at all that people can sit out there in reality and call four times with an emergency call and there is no response. In relation to the case from Lolland, I have at least noted that there are both authorities that have gone into the matter and that they themselves are also following up on the part of the municipality. I think it is an important signal that we have sent to the municipalities that we in the Left give priority to dignified care for the elderly. We have not just sent out the signal; we have actually also allowed money to follow through the dignity billion. And I've actually been thrilled that 86%. of dignity billionaires, if I do not remember quite wrong, go to warm hands out there in nursing homes, out there in reality, where life is lived, and where both staff and older citizens must have a daily life to care for a higher unit. I am pleased that the money has been used for warm hands, because that tells me that it has been needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113446	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113449	Nevertheless, despite all the billions and despite all the good intentions, we find time and again that local authorities are saying that the resources are not enough to solve the tasks more adequately than what we have seen examples of over recent weeks. So what would the Left's bid be to solve the problems that we see, despite the fact that resources have been allocated?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113512	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113514	I have to be quite honest with you and say that the legislation that forms the basis of, among other things. the way in which tenders are being made today is the 2013 legislation led by the former Socialist Government, which we in the Left voted against. And we did, among other things. because we were worried that the municipalities would have a very one-sided focus on price and not on quality. Now I understand that the Social Democratic Party would like to see an investigation into what is at the root of these bankruptcies. And I actually welcome it if the Social Democratic Party has thought that it was a rather unfortunate piece of legislation that was passed at the time, because then we can take the discussion again. Because it is important that, when you make tenders, you also have a focus on what quality you get for the money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113600	Thank you to Mrs Jane Heitmann. There are no more brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Finn Sørensen from Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223113618	First of all, I would like to thank the Socialist People's Party for making this proposal. We cannot often get the discussion on what is actually behind the many boring examples that we see running and that we have seen for many years. It's nothing new. The boring example from Lolland is not a new thing. Over the last few years we have seen one example after another of the fact that there is probably something lagged behind in the care of the elderly in this country. There is a reality behind the economy, and it is not everywhere a nice reality. I must also hurry to say that you should not paint it all black either. I would like to send a greeting to the staff I visited yesterday in a nursing home here in Copenhagen. It was really encouraging. And I can also confirm that one is pleased that some extra money has been provided, which in this case has also been allocated in the form of more staff. But that is also what this is all about, and they are no doubt out there in reality, where they are struggling with things and trying to make the best of the money there is. But we have to deal with the fact that there is another reality that is contagious out there, and that is the economic reality, and that is the debate that the Socialist People's Party wants to raise. Therefore, I would like to spend a little bit of time on some facts about what has actually happened in this area. For that is true, and it is also confirmed by the government's own figures and the thorough research that Denmark's Radio has done, that there is no raffle about the fact that since 2008 less money has been spent each year. older in this country. It is as simple as that and, of course, it will have consequences. Let me just mention a little about the figures: if we all take over 65 years, we can see that the average cost of the municipalities to them has fallen continuously since 2010. Overall, we are talking about a fall of 16 per cent. per older in the period 2010-2015. If we look forward, we can see that there is also a problem. It is true that the government has contributed more money to the elderly area in 2016 • 1.9%. to be precise but that does not correspond to the increase we have in the number of over 80-year-olds. This is expected to increase by 2.2%. In 2016, so just within that year, you can see that we have problems. After all, there are also some staff consequences that speak their own language. Since 2008, I think it is, the number of employees in the social and health sector in this country has fallen by 11,500, and we all know that the vast majority of them belong exactly to the group that is concerned with giving our elderly a dignified care. More than 5.5 million home help hours have disappeared and the number of home help recipients has fallen by 33 per cent. It is, of course, the underlying economic constraint, if it is to be said, that we see all the boring examples. So thank you to the SF for making the proposal. Then we have had an interesting discussion about the economic negotiations, because there are some people in here who would very much like to pass on all the responsibility to the municipalities. They forget, as for a moment, who lays down the financial framework and forces the municipalities to save, and it is the case that if the municipalities do not have to save on the elderly, they will be forced to save on something else, and then it is the children or young people who suffer. It is, after all, a very boring task that has been given to municipal self-government. To put it bluntly: local self-government has been restricted in that area, so it will be something that, if things are to be put on the head, the municipalities have been allowed to use local self-government to distribute the misery that the majority in Christiansborg inflicts on them. So I look forward very much to this great willingness to protect and take care of the elderly and welfare in general also reflected in this year's economic negotiations, both on KL's board of directors, where the same parties are represented, and in here in the Folketing. We'll get back to that. As far as the proposal itself is concerned, I have to say that the Enhedslisten is trying to be a deeply responsible party, and we can, as others have said, that is something that I regret to agree with the others in this House, so we cannot vote in favour of a proposal that has been put at 5.6 billion. kr. off to this area. We would very much like to be involved in this, but we also need to know how it is to be financed. But otherwise I would like to thank the SF for the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114127	There is a brief comment from Mrs Jane Heitmann. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114129	Thank you. I understand that Enhedslisten is concerned about fewer public employees. Now it is well known that if I do not remember quite wrong it may be that the rapporteur can remember the figures better than I do that the number of public employees fell by about 11,000 under the former Socialist-led government, if I do not remember quite wrong. I just want to hear something. Now I could understand that Enhedslisten is a responsible party, and I am delighted, but how did Enhedslisten assert its influence in ensuring that there are the absolutely necessary warm hands out there in the nursing homes?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114207	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114209	In fact, I believe that the right figure is 14 000 fewer civil servants under the Thorning Government. But, of course, we used our mandates for what some mandates of this kind should be used in that situation, namely to make demands on the government, to negotiate. But to the extent that the government is looking to the other side, namely to the Left, when it comes to implementing the reduction policy, which resulted in 14 000 fewer, the Enhedslisten will vote against. When you come up with an economic agreement after negotiations with KL and want to translate it into an act in the Finance Committee, Enhedslisten votes against unless it is an agreement that improves the municipalities' finances. In fact, we had only one example of this during the period when we were a parliamentary basis for the Thorning Government. That's the difference. It is true that it is the Left that helped the Thorning Government through the economic policy which has resulted in the cuts in the area of the elderly and, moreover, in the welfare sector that we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114314	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114316	As the questioner himself pointed out, we have just been a support party and the guarantor of the Socialist-led government, and so I think it would be appropriate if the rapporteur could perhaps point out just one or two or three very specific initiatives in which the Enhedslisten has made his mark and said that here we have precisely ensured that there was, for example, one. More warm hands out in the care of the elderly, which I can understand takes up a lot, including for the rapporteur. It certainly does for me. But just give a few examples of concrete prints, i.e. that Enhedslisten has made a difference as a support party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114349	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114351	We have not been able to make up for the cuts that the VK government had made in the past when the Thorning government came to because of the fact that the Left constantly offered itself to do so. Every time we proposed that we should now have secured welfare in the municipalities, the Left stepped in and helped Thorning government through economic policy. This has prevented us from implementing the improvements that need to be made. This has prevented us from ensuring that there were no cuts that we are experiencing today. It is the political responsibility of the Left that we are in this situation as simple as that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114436	Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114439	Thank you. The rapporteur is concerned that there are more than 65 years of age who do not need home help at home. The rapporteur says that this is the result of economic coercion. Could it not be that it was because we are fresher longer, we are longer in the labour market, we are later worn out? Personally, I know a lot of people up in the 1970s who have never asked for home help because they do not need it, not because there is financial coercion, but because there is no need for it. Could it not be that this was the reason for it, and would the rapporteur not welcome it rather than be concerned about it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114524	You can say, "He says..." That's the third person we're talking about, and that's why. You can't say "you," so there was no problem in saying, "He says." So there is some room for manoeuvre in the rules of speech. It is the rapporteur's turn.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114541	Well, I also know examples of fresh elderly people over 65 years of age. We can just look around here in the room. We can all give examples of this. I have just as a basis for the debate we have here presented to the Danish Parliament some facts about what has happened in the area of home help, namely that in the period from 2008 to 2014, the number of home help hours has decreased by 5.5 million and that the average home help recipient receives almost the same number of hours of home help per week that has been received all the time. But it does cover the fact that far fewer people are receiving home help today than they did then. In 2008, 18% received aid. of the elderly over 65 years of age, home help. In 2014, this figure had fallen to just 12%. In other words, there is a sharp reduction in the group receiving home help, despite the fact that the number of elderly people is growing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114656	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114658	Yes, but it emphasizes that it is because there is no need anymore. It is not a matter of knowing a few examples. I know of oceans of people well up in the 1970s, who have never ever asked about it, and the point made by the rapporteur at the end of this point is that every recipient of home help does not receive less hours than they did in 2008, because it stresses that it has not been reduced beyond what corresponds to the lesser need. When each of the people in need gets the same help, what is the problem?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114737	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114739	The problem is that there are a lot of people who do not get the help, even if they want it. It's as simple as that. And the rapporteur himself, if the rapporteur wants to open his ears to it, can go out to the municipalities and find out. Does the rapporteur really think that cuts do not leave some consequence in the municipalities? That must obviously be the attitude.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114803	Mrs May-Britt Kattrup cannot answer that immediately, but she will shortly have her rapporteur's speech. Thank you, sir. Finn Sørensen. No further brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs May-Britt Kattrup from the Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223114820	Thank you. Good care for the elderly is one of the most important things in our society, and unfortunately we have seen too many examples of care for the elderly that are not good enough, and we need to change that. Before the elections, the Liberal Alliance wanted to give priority to care for the elderly, and we still want that to happen. At no time have we planned downgrades in the care of the elderly, quite the contrary, nor have we set down priorities for elderly care in the government base. Our starting point is that good healthcare and decent care for the elderly are among the cornerstones of our welfare society, and we must safeguard that and we must develop it. We have already taken the first steps. With the 2016 Finance Act, we have prioritised a significant increase in health with a focus on the elderly. The 2017 Finance Act provides additional funding for the area, while both years we have strengthened our efforts for dignified care for the elderly. But we are not in goal and we will continue to give priority to improving our core welfare, also after 2017. We will pursue an ageing policy based on the five fundamental values of the Elder Commission. The first is influence on your own life. All our lives we have decided for ourselves who will come to our homes, when we will get up in the morning, when we will shower, where we will live, etc. I don't want to change that just because we're getting older. The Liberal Alliance will fight for everyone to have free choice and decide their own lives. The second value is respect for diversity. Just because you're getting older doesn't mean you're turning into a grey uniform mass. Individuals with different needs and desires are still missing, as they have been throughout their lives, and this must be respected. Without self-determination there is no dignity. The third point of value is humanity in focus. Older people are not machines or chess pieces. There must be time for care and personal contact. The fourth point we are looking for is good experiences. In the nursing homes I have visited, there has been a desire for meaningful activities without exception. One of the examples that we see great success is bicycles, rickshawer is shown to be called, who have gained a great deal of ground, and who are extremely delighted for the elderly. It allows everyone to breathe fresh air and a tour around the community. The last, but not least, value is a dignified end of life. In order to make these things possible, a number of initiatives have been initiated under this government and more funds have been allocated to older people than has been the case for several years. Nor for the years 2018-2021 have there been any reduction in priorities in the area of older people. That is why there is nothing to stop, as proposed by the proposal, and that is why LA is voting against the proposal. There is also another problem in the proposal. The billions that you want to compensate for are not being told where to come from. In addition, it is also to be expected to bring with it a great deal of increased bureaucracy. So LA cannot vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115208	Thank you. There is a brief comment from Mrs Astrid Krag.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115210	Thank you. I just have to say to the Liberal Alliance rapporteur, who says that there is more funding for older people than for many years, that I was able to read out to the rapporteur of the Left from the key figures of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Home Affairs, which show that per. the elderly, there is the same amount in 2015 and 2016. And when the rapporteur says that it doesn't matter that you don't want to keep up with the increasing number of older people in the future, then you are on a slightly different planet. That is why I would like to ask the rapporteur whether the policy of the rapporteur's own party, which is, after all, about getting less growth in the public sector and making it more efficient by 10%, has been judged by the Liberal Alliance that we should. It amounts in crowns and ears to an amount that is greater than what we spend overall on our care of the elderly. But should I hear the Liberal Alliance now that they suddenly do not think so anymore, and that the Liberal Alliance will not be more efficient in the public sector, which they have resigned themselves, and that the Liberal Alliance no longer wants to see negative growth in the public sector? Is that how I should understand the rapporteur today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115313	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115314	The Liberal Alliance certainly still wants to make the public sector more efficient. Now Mrs Astrid Krag refers to our 2025 plan, and it is true that in our 2025 plan we had an efficiency improvement potential of 10%. This was a general improvement in efficiency throughout the public sector. It is not a green harvester; it is not a rigid system in which you go in and say that 10% of people need to be made more efficient. in the area of the elderly. In fact, in our 2025 plan, we had set aside a total of 26 billion. kr. It is not a question of the Community's own resources, but of the Community's own resources, and it is also a question of the Community's own resources. So the area of the elderly was definitely taken into account, because we would like to focus on an increased priority for the elderly.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115403	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115403-2	If I am to understand that the Liberal Alliance does not recognise the figures of the Ministry of Finance, which documents and then let us not discuss the policy of the Liberal Alliance; I think that sounds like a hokuspocus, but we can take that in a different context. If we are to follow the demographics, then we must have a growth which is about 1.5 billion. kr. higher every year to be able to keep up with and just keep the level of our core welfare in the care of the elderly that we have now. Doesn't the Liberal Alliance recognize that? Is that just the kind of thing where the Treasury has stuck a finger up and made it up? Or is it a very real problem that by 2025 we will be lacking 16,000 employees in the public sector just to keep the level we have today?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115446	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115447	First to what Mrs Astrid Krag calls hokuspocus. It is, in fact, calculated by the very same Ministry of Finance to which Mrs Astrid Krag refers. So this is the Ministry of Finance's own figures, which were just called hokuspocus here. But please don't do this. As far as the finance minister's projections are concerned, it is true that it has taken into account a partial improvement in ageing, what we call healthy ageing, but what has absolutely not been taken into account in this projection and this is directly shown by the Ministry of Finance's own notes is technological development, smarter workflows, and how much can be made more efficient and achieved through it. And there's a lot to pick up. I can just take an example from Aarhus Municipality, where you can see that they have picked up savings of 15 million. kr. In the field of technological development. Among other things, it has. were robot vacuum cleaners, lifts, wash toilets, eating robots and automatic window and door openers. And they expect to save even more money in the future by using technical aids, among others. in rehabilitation, and they even experience a great joy in the elderly by doing so. They have even experienced being scolded by a citizen because they did not realize that there were rinse-dry toilets so that they could be free from people coming in and wiping her in the most intimate places. So there's plenty to pick up. And there's plenty to pick up, too. No, I guess I'd better end now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115638	Yeah, there's plenty to pick up, but I'm afraid there's no time for it all. There are no more brief comments. May-Britt Kattrup No, that's too bad!). Yeah, that's how the day goes. However, we thank Mrs May-Britt Kattrup for today's work. And before we go further with Mrs Pernille Schnoor, I can tell you that we need both Mrs Pernille Schnoor, Mrs Lotte Rod and the draftsman of the motion for a resolution, so we will not make it unless we include very large parts of the dinner break to be completed before the midday break. So we are now going to go before the midday break, Mrs Schnoor's speech as rapporteur and the brief comments that have been made, and then we will take the midday break and finish the item after the midday break.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115719	The alternative recognises the demographic challenge facing municipalities with an increasing number of elderly people. We recognise that it is a major challenge for municipalities that expenditure on the elderly area is increasing and that therefore, in many cases, municipalities are taking money from other areas, for example. day institutions and primary schools, and that is problematic. It is therefore sensible to look at how the municipalities can be compensated for the costs associated with the increasing number of elderly people, as the SF is proposing here, but we are not convinced that the SF's solution is the right one anyway. The group of citizens over the age of 65 is larger and more diverse than ever. A large proportion of today's older people do not live up to the stereotype of being a social burden, and especially the younger elderly are well-functioning and able to cope with everyday tasks, to do volunteer work and to contribute to the communities they are part of. Having said that, we also have elderly people who live unacceptable lives, and the WHO estimates that one fifth of people over 60 years of age suffer from mental illness. In the alternative, we believe that something greater needs to be done: a change in culture. A constant effort must be made over the years to bring about a sustainable change in culture. This is a cultural change, which includes our approach to education, our management practices and our controls, and it is an effort in which we focus on health promotion and preventive initiatives • initiatives that can ensure that older people have the highest possible level of function in the longest possible time. We actually know specific examples, for example. The Buurtzorg model on so-called neighborhood care from the Netherlands, which is a project or programme that indicates how a new management approach can flatten the organizational structure and shift the focus of the care staff away from paperwork, desk work and bureaucracy to the elderly themselves. So we share SF's concern, but unfortunately we do not think this is the solution.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115954	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Finn Sørensen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223115957	Thank you and thank the rapporteur. Cultural changes are always good • Perhaps • if culture is the main problem. However, I understand the rapporteur's point of view that it is quite in addition to talking about the elderly being given more resources, so that account can be taken of the high growth, in the number of elderly people and also in the number of elderly people requiring care. There are some here who like to make it look like they're all so healthy, so it doesn't matter. Well, the group of over 80-year-olds is growing too. Then it is the rapporteur's message that it is uninteresting to discuss the 5.6 billion. kr.? It is a problem that they are not financed, but I think the order of magnitude is correct. What is the rapporteur's position on this? Doesn't the money matter if we change the culture?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223120046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223120048	I can reply very briefly to a very long question: no, it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223120053	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223120055	Thank you. It was because the rapporteur said that this was not the way it was to be done, in other words, as the SF proposes, and what the SF proposes, and which I think is positive, is, in fact, precisely the part where more money is to be provided. It is not financed, and it is a problem, but the idea is good enough. Then I just thought that the rapporteur did not think it was important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223120118	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223120120	As I also mentioned in my rapporteur's speech, I believe that the focus should be on health promotion and prevention. New models must be focused, for example. new principles of governance, which I called a change in culture, and I do not exclude that from the cost of money. The reason why we, among other things, are... Don't say yes to this is that I think it's not enough. This isn't enough. It's not the ideal solution in our world to just add money to this area. Those are some other things that need to be done that are more difficult, yes, I recognise that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223120157	Thank you to Mrs Pernille Schnoor. Then we are prepared to have a lunch break until 8 a.m. 13.00. The first rapporteur after the break is Mrs Lotte Rod of the Radical Left. Nice break.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130005	The sitting is resumed. Before we proceed, I can inform you that the debate on statement No. R 7 on the development of EU cooperation in 2016, not as previously announced, shall be negotiated on Tuesday, 21 March 2017, but on Friday, 24 March 2017. We are dealing with the first reading of motion for a resolution. B 38, and in the line of rapporteurs we have reached Mrs Lotte Rod, the Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130037	Thank you. How you feel when you get older and need care is something that concerns us all. Maybe you are in a nursing home yourself, maybe you have a mother or father who is, maybe you have a grandmother or grandpa, or maybe you just think a lot about what it will be like when you get yourself into that situation, because we sometimes hear some really amazing examples of places where it is meaningful and beautiful to be old, while we sometimes hear some examples where you think that you don't want to be old there yourself. It is important that all people have a dignified time, even at the end of their lives, and that is why I think it is important that we keep talking to each other here in the Folketing about what we can do to make it that way. On the one hand, it is both a question of leadership, it is a question of professionalism, and it is a question of the human vision we have when we meet older people. But it is also a question of money. When we know that there are more and more older people, we have to spend more and more money on it, of course. I just don't believe what the SF is presenting here today. I really think you other rapporteurs have been very nice, so may I say a little more directly: I think this proposal is actually rather irresponsible. The SF writes in the proposal and I quote: SF imagines that the total amount of compensation for the municipalities is in the order of approx. 5.6 billion. kr. Quote out. And there's not a single word about funding... not a single word about funding. Quite frankly, I feel that it is a waste of time for us in the Danish Parliament to discuss a proposal which costs more than 5 billion. kr., without any effort being made to show a single place where you will find the money. That is why we in the Radical Left are opposed to this proposal, but we would very much like to work with the SF and with the Red parties, moreover, to have a new policy in which the money is actually set aside for the welfare that is needed in Denmark. I think that the blue parties, the government, the Left and the Liberal Alliance, and the Conservatives, together with the Danish People's Party, have committed a huge failure when you know that in order to maintain the same welfare we have today, we need public spending to increase by 0.6%, but then you only choose to set 0.3 percent. off. Then you look with open eyes into one saving after another, which will not only affect the elderly, but will also affect children and young people. If something is going to make a difference when we hopefully have a S-R government soon and soon again, it is that we will give priority to putting as much money off for welfare as is actually needed. In my view, this idea, which SF has, namely crown to the crown tank, does not necessarily make so much sense either. Of course, the economy of the municipalities must take into account how many older people there are. We already do that today, but it is part of a total calculation, because there may be a development in the municipality, which means that there are some things that you need to spend more money on, and something else that you need to spend less money on, and that is why I think it makes very good sense that it is part of an overall calculation. So the Radical Left is against this proposal, but we will do everything we can to ensure that we will hopefully soon have a new government with the Social Democrats and the Radicals, which can give priority to the money needed for welfare, both for the elderly and for children and young people.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130505	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are a few brief comments, and the first is from Mr. Jeppe Jakobsen, Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130516	It is just as good enough to stand there as a representative of a party that swung a minus growth over the municipalities when they had government power, and then accuse the majority of the Folketing, which now ensures growth in the municipal economy. It's just pretty. Then I heard the rapporteur accuse the Danish People's Party of only providing funds for a growth rate of 0.3 per cent. in the public sector. Will the rapporteur document that claim? Where have the Danish People's Party voted for a growth in government of only 0.3 per cent.? As I remember the financial laws to which we have voted, including the economic consequences thereof, growth has been somewhat higher than these 0.3%. So will the rapporteur either deny or document that claim? Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130605	I think it is very clear that the Danish People's Party spends an enormous amount of time distanced from the government and criticising the government and saying that the government does not do well enough, but every time it does, you hold hands under the Left Government. If you think that the Left Government spends too little money on welfare it has a plan that there should only be an increase of 0.3 per cent.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130638	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130641	You have to be measured by what you do and not by what you say. Then it may well be that we now have a government that says that it does not want very much growth and that we previously had a government that said it would like to grow, but what is the fact and what has happened is that the government that Mrs Lotte Rod represents, for her party, was sitting in it, led a negative growth policy towards the municipalities, and that the policy of the current government brings much greater growth than the government says it wants to. However, I would just like to repeat that Mrs Lotte Rod was told that the Danish People's Party says that there should only be an increase of 0.3 per cent. in public budgets, and I would ask the rapporteur to either document or deny that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130722	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130725	I hear it as if the Danish People's Party will try to assert its influence and say that they are not satisfied that public consumption in the future will only increase by 0.3 per cent and that they will therefore try to influence the government. I think that's fine. I'm just saying, basically, there's a difference between what you plan on doing. And right now we have a government that plans with a growth of 0.3 per cent, and it is supported by the Danish People's Party. On the other hand, hopefully we will soon have a SR government that will have significantly higher public spending, because we know how many more children and how many more older people there will be and that more money will also be needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130807	The next question is Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130810	Thank you. The rapporteur says that there will be a huge gap, because the government has only expected to spend money on a growth rate of 0.3 per cent, but that the Ministry of Finance has calculated that 0.6 per cent is needed. Does the rapporteur not at all recognise that there can be efficiency improvements in productivity improvements, in other words in terms of technological development and smarter workflows, which could cover perhaps the whole gap or at least part of it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130842	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130845	I certainly believe that there are things you can do smarter and smarter. But I would also venture to claim that there are places where it makes less sense, and these are the places where it is about having time and presence, because a person is a human being and costs the wages that he costs. That is why, as a Parliament, we also have an obligation to ensure that, if we want there to be time and presence, there will also be enough staff to do so. And when we see that there are more and more elderly people and, by the way, more and more children, then it makes sense that from here we take responsibility for disposing of the money it costs.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130926	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223130928	I fully agree that time and presence are one of the most important things and that we must give our older people proper care. But precisely in Aarhus Municipality, the elderly care has saved 15 million. kr. on technological development and by technological aids such as robot vacuum cleaners, lifts, wash toilets, eating robots and automatic window and door openers. And the elderly have been happy about it. There is even a helper who has been scolded by a citizen because he was unaware that there were so-called flush-dried toilets. For the citizen was so happy that you didn't need a person to wipe yourself in the more intimate places. So while you can streamline and get a great deal of money, you can also do something good for the elderly. And then you can have more time for presence and care as we talk about it. Is that not something the rapporteur wishes to recognise?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131024	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131027	Yes, and I think I started by saying that there are, of course, some technological developments that make some things easier and therefore cheaper. But I would also like to point out that being older and being in a nursing home is not just about getting cleaned up and getting bathed. After all, it is also about the quality of life and the opinion that prevails throughout the day, and that means that there are enough staff, for example. I'm gonna sit here and talk about memories if you want to dance if you want music. This requires that there should be sufficient staff at all to do so, and that is why we cannot ignore the fact that the policy advocated by the blue parties is actually that we want to cut back and that we therefore see savings in savings. And we do not believe that in the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131120	The next question is Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131124	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Radical rapporteur. I understand that the Radicals are starting from the assumption that there should be enough staff, and I therefore fully agree that there should be staff to ensure a decent care for the elderly. Now it is a fact that, overall, the municipalities spend more money in the area of the elderly under this government than they did under the former Social Democratic-led government, of which the Radical Left was part. It is also a fact that under the former Social Democratic government, of which the Radicals were still a part, 11 000 fewer civil servants were employed. I would just like to ask: does the rapporteur think that there were enough staff in the care centres, in the nursing homes, out there in reality, where life is being lived?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131221	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131223	Now we're gonna knock this down once and for all. For the Danish People's Party, it said, and now the Left also says so, so this is that there was a huge slowing down in the municipalities under the SR government. Yeah, that's right. And why did that? It was because before then we had a VK government that was so economically irresponsible that the budgets had run out of control and that there was therefore a bottom-up task in making the budgets fit. It has hurt so much in the municipalities that I believe we have a common obligation that this will never happen again. And I really hope that the Left and the Conservatives will learn from it for the next time, because we can simply do better.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131305	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131308	In fact, I think it has been a rather funny debate today, because earlier we heard the Enhedslisten say that it was the fault of the Left that no one had been able to put any prints in relation to strengthening the care of the elderly during the time that they had held hands under the former Red Government. And now we have to hear the Radical rapporteur say that it is also the fault of the bourgeois, and it is the fault of the VK government that 11 000 fewer civil servants were employed under the former Red Government. I simply cannot understand how difficult it is to take responsibility. I believe that government responsibility has been in place for four years, and I would just like to ask again just as quietly: does the Radical rapporteur believe that under the former Red Government, with 11 000 fewer civil servants, there were enough staff in the nursing homes and care centres?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131400	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131403	But listen to me. After all, it is a fact that the slowing down that took place in the municipalities was due to the irresponsible economy that the Left and Conservatives drive. It's a fact. That is why, as politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure that this does not happen again. We've learned from it. I also hope that the Left and Conservatives have learned from this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131427	The next question is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131435	Thank you. I was just curious, when we talk about proximity and time to the elderly and personal contact, to hear the rapporteur confirm or deny whether it is true that out of the welfare billion that was deposed goes 86 per cent. of the amount to warm hands, precisely because the current government and the Danish People's Party think it is really important that more money is spent on exactly personal contact, more time for the elderly and more presence. Then the rapporteur can confirm or deny that 86 per cent. of the welfare billion goes to warm hands?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131509	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131512	I cannot do that in my head, but if the rapporteur says so, I am sure that is true. What is just the case is that it is not new money; that is to say, we had already set aside that money. So that's how it's gonna be a little weird.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131525	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131528	In fact, I do not think it is a strange discussion when you stand here and get shot in your shoes, that you do nothing good for the elderly, that we then determine how much more we channel out to the elderly. And can the rapporteur not also confirm that the more welfare technology we get, the more technological tools we have, the better it is for the elderly, because extra time is then set aside; in other words, the time saved by welfare technology can be spent on the elderly by those who help the elderly. Is it not also a good development that must be acknowledged, that there is therefore more presence and better time for the elderly?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131607	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131610	Yes, I am happy to confirm this once again, namely that when technological developments take place, we will, of course, have time to do something else. What I am saying is wrong with the Liberal Alliance is, firstly, that they talk about it as if it were new money. No, we had already set aside that money. Secondly, when we look forward in time, we know that there will be more elderly people, just as there will be more children, and that means everything else being equal, that we also have to allocate more money. That is why the policy that the Liberal Alliance has put forward with open eyes is underfunded in relation to at least having the same welfare as we have today for some nursing homes I would also like us to be able to do more than we do today but just to have the same welfare that today requires significantly more money than what the Liberal Alliance chooses to set off. In this way, LA sees with its eyes open that there will be one saving after another. We in the Radical Left think this is a bad policy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131706	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. Then that is the last in line, namely the rapporteur for the authors of the motion, Mrs Kirsten Normann Andersen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223131714	Thank you for the many fine intentions of dignified care for the elderly. There is hardly a party with respect for itself that does not share the view that we must ensure a dignified old age for the elderly. On the basis of a number of examples that it is quite serious to achieve this objective, we in the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly have also had a number of consultations on the subject. Here we have again and again, among other things. established that demographic developments have resulted in an increase in the number of older citizens, and this will continue for many years to come. If we just look forward to 2021, we are talking about an increase of 80 years of age among older citizens and +80 years of 15%. It has created and will create a great deal of pressure on the resources for care for the elderly. This has so far been compensated by tightening up the requirements for the granting of aid or by allowing the employee to perform relatively more tasks in a shorter period of time. That development cannot continue, and it will result in us expecting more elderly people to experience unworthy care for the elderly, as we have witnessed over recent months. We have two options: we accept the state of things for economic reasons; or we solve the problems by allocating the necessary resources because we want and because we can. This proposal is based on the fact that we have to solve the problems. In recent months' many consultations, I have listened to the rapporteurs share the view that the challenges are real and that we must address them. This is what this proposal is about: we are requiring the government to put forward a legislative proposal which ensures once and for all that the municipalities are compensated for the increasing costs of care for the elderly, as municipalities get more and more elderly people with care needs, against the fact that the municipalities actually spend the money on care for the elderly as well. I regret a discussion when it comes to who has done what and who has voted for what it does not necessarily help citizens to have the necessary bath. I recognise that we can have a discussion on funding for the benefit of us. But it is basically about what is the available framework that needs to be applied. 0,3% growth will mean 6 billion. kr., which we have as a frame, and they would all have to solve this just the right problem. You could also choose the 0.6% which will at least allow us to maintain the standard that we have today. I also note that we have a government right now which prioritises tax relief in its government base rather than welfare. It's a choice. You can choose whether you want one or you can choose whether you want the other. I think that as long as we clearly need better care for the elderly, we also need to give priority to better care for the elderly. I also recognise that one can think in terms of debureaucratisation and one can think in terms of sick leave, and one can think in terms of cultural change, and one can think in terms of management and technological development. Many good suggestions have been made here from the platform today. I believe that the municipalities have tried to use them all, but that does not change the fact that we still had to leave and just last week to see that there were again examples of extremely unworthy care for the elderly. I don't think we can be familiar with that. That is why I do not think this debate has been a waste of time or a waste of time. In fact, I think it is irresponsible for us not to try to find a solution to a completely correct problem. I welcome the fact that nobody has rejected the calculation and that perhaps I can see it as if we agree that this is the framework we are talking about if we are going to solve the problem, so that we do not have to cut the care of the elderly further in relation to what we are seeing today. That is why I would also like to look forward to a committee procedure in which I hope we may have the opportunity to discuss further what it takes to meet a real need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132147	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs Jane Heitmann, Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132152	Thank you. I would like to start by acknowledging that the SF is debating a worthy care for the elderly. We in the Left are also concerned about this. I also explained this in my rapporteur's speech. We have given priority to giving billions to worthy care for the elderly. I now hear the rapporteur talking about precisely financing. I hear the rapporteur talking about the availability framework and about allocating the necessary resources. To me it sounds hollow. It sounds like pure symbolism, if I'm to be honest with you. The SF has had the office of Minister of Health itself. Astrid Krag was then Minister of Health, elected by the SF. Astrid Krag led an action plan for elderly medical patients. She prioritized giving 200 million. kr. I can say to ordinary citizens' information that we have also presented an action plan for elderly medical patients, in which we have given 1.2 billion priority. kr. Then you have to hear from the platform that the bourgeois wing does not give high priority to dignified care of the elderly. Perhaps the rapporteur would like to explain why 200 million people were thought at the time. kr. Was everything enough for an action plan for elderly medical patients?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132317	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132318	I think it is a pity that the Left is using this debate over and over again to discuss what has happened rather than what we need to do to resolve the problem. I would like to take the lead in having a debate on what is needed to solve the real problem of the fact that there are now fewer and fewer resources to solve the problems of more and more elderly people with care needs. This results in an everyday life where the staff experience that they sometimes have to be in two places at once. If you have to, you will eventually become so stressed that you risk not being able to solve the tasks expected of you. I think we are responsible for this. There is little other option than to set aside the necessary funds to ensure that there is the salary for the employees that is needed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132407	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132409	To be honest, I believe that the elderly medical patients who are lying out there on cold hospital walkways up and down elevators and washrooms are experiencing this as a real problem. You lie there instead of lying in hot hospital rooms. We have addressed this problem by giving priority to 1.2 billion. kr. to that area. I cannot understand why the rapporteur does not just recognise that, when it comes to government, it does not want to give priority and the resources it needs. I have mentioned an example here where we have given a significantly different priority than we have chosen to do in the bourgeois government. The rapporteur will not recognise that with a bourgeois government there is indeed an opportunity to give considerable amounts of money to a very, very vulnerable group of citizens, namely the elderly and the elderly medical patients.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132506	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132509	But with a growth rate of 0.3%. We will see cuts in welfare. It's a fact. 0.6% is needed. Just to maintain the standard we have today. When you look at the care of the elderly, you see that the challenge is greater, because demographic development shows that there will be more and more elderly people who will eventually have a need for care regardless of all the good measures we take together to help people take care of themselves for longer. But more and more elderly people with care needs also mean that more and more hours are needed to solve that task. It's payroll hours, it costs money.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132554	The next question is Mrs Lotte Rod, Radical Left. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132558	Where's the 5.6 billion? kr. Come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132603	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132605	You have two options. Either you set aside the necessary means to solve absolutely right problems, or you choose to say that the economy is balanced by people's real needs. With a growth rate of 0.6%. We would have had the opportunity to give priority to the need to allocate more resources to care for the elderly in relation to demographic developments, on which we all agree. After all, none of us do not recognise that this need is a real need and that it is a real problem. Then we can choose to say that it needs to be resolved within the existing framework. I only note from some of the things that we have seen over the past week, but also from some of the feedback we get from the employees who are out there, that it is not possible to continue to solve the problems in this way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132654	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132656	But why has the SF not made more effort to show in concrete terms where the funding should come from? I feel a bit that if you put forward a proposal that has not been financed, it would be tantamount to not having put forward a proposal at all, because there will be nothing about the fact that money has not been set aside for it. What does the SF think of putting forward a proposal costing 5.6 billion? kr., but that you don't show where they're supposed to come from?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132719	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132721	But the question is not so much where the money should come from. The question is more about how much it costs to provide dignified care for the elderly on the scale attributed to demographic development. And it will be a question of whether we want to give priority to tax relief or whether we want to give priority to a growth rate that can simply compensate for this right need.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132747	Then it's Mrs. May-Britt Kattrup, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132751	Thank you. I fully agree with the questioner about how important it is for us to have good care for the elderly. Unfortunately, we have seen some examples of something that is just not right at all and that we cannot be familiar with, and we really must correct that. Then the rapporteur goes on to say that the government does not give priority to the welfare of the elderly, but only to tax cuts. In other words, the government's legal basis says that we give priority to care for the elderly, and it says that we will pursue an ageing policy based on the five fundamental values of the Elder Commission. And with regard to tax cuts, I would say: yes, tax cuts must ensure that there is growth in society so that there is prosperity and so that we can pay it here, so that it can be financed. The rapporteur keeps saying that it does not matter where the money comes from. But now my question to the rapporteur is: does SF have a tree from which to pick the money, or what? You have to point out where you are going to get 5.6 billion. kr. from. You can't just say that it's not important where the money comes from. So I want to hear about that from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132906	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223132908	I have noted over the last few weeks, including in the consultations we have had together, that all the rapporteurs agree that we must ensure dignified care for the elderly. And that's what this proposal is about. I do not recognise Mrs May-Britt Kattrup's assessment that we must first make tax cuts and then there will be plenty of money that we can use to secure the five values that Mrs May-Britt Kattrup read out in her rapporteur's speech. On the contrary, I believe that we are going to solve real welfare problems first and that in this way we will also be freeing up resources which, in the long run, can help to make things easier for us. In fact, I believe that if you do a proper job in the care of the elderly, you will also get cheaper care in the long run because you will have more satisfied citizens and secure citizens. However, this presupposes that we will devote the necessary resources to resolving it and patching up the gaps that are obvious right now.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133009	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133011	After all, it is not only Mrs May-Britt Kattrup who estimates that welfare costs money. Well, I think that, like there is general agreement on that. Among economists there is a general consensus that growth is needed and that prosperity is needed before that money is there. So, again, I would like to ask the rapporteur: where is this money going to be obtained? How do you get 5.6 billion? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that it is important that they should be there and that priority should be given to care for the elderly, which we, as the rapporteur himself says, are very much in agreement with all of us? We cannot be familiar with the way things are going in some places. However, we must remember that it works well in many places, and part of the exercise is also about learning from all the skilled employees who are and all the well-functioning places that are. But where will the rapporteur get the 5.6 billion? kr. From?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133103	I have no doubt that here and now we have an acute problem with the lack of resources for the care of the elderly. And if you raise the rate to 0.6%, it will eat about half of the amount of availability that will then be if you want to solve that problem right now. We recognize that in the SF as well.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133128	The next question is Mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133136	My question to the rapporteur is a direct follow-up to the answer to the last question, namely that there is recognition that some money needs to be set aside. We're talking about 5.6 billion. kr. I would therefore like to hear from the rapporteur: why has the SF proposal for a 2025 plan not set aside the 5.6 billion? kr.?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133200	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133203	Now I do not think we have made a real 2025 plan in this respect, but we recognise that it costs to correct the care of the elderly. If we are to correct the demographic trend resulting from the increasing number of elderly people who are getting more and more care needs, then we also need to allocate the necessary funds to do so. That amounts to 5.6 billion. kr. Until 2021.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133230	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133235	In the SF's proposal for temporary welfare contributions and a strengthened effort to combat tax fraud, where you are just trying to look at what it is for an increased welfare that you want to advocate, it is not clear to me that the 5.6 billion has not been set aside. kr. I have a feeling that when others believe that welfare improvements can be made within the existing framework and that welfare cannot always be measured by who can spend the most money, it may be problematic for the rapporteur's party, whereas when you look at what you want, you forget that middle bill. I think that is a little muddled for a debate that should be about what we should do to make a proper elderly welfare. And it is not necessarily a matter of crowns and ears, but a matter of organizing it in the right way.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133328	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133332	It is quite true that SF's temporary welfare contribution is intended as an effort in the area of children, where there is also a great need to do something extraordinary because of the current too limited resources in the day institutions. Because we believe that if you do a good job at the beginning and with the children at an early stage, that money is also saved in the long run. What is really the art is to get a job done so well that we do not have to do it twice. But we get to that when we repeatedly under-priority the areas and thus solve the tasks so poorly that we end up having to do things twice.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133417	Then we would like to thank the rapporteur. As no one else has asked to speak, the negotiations have ended. I propose that the draft parliamentary resolution be referred to the Committee on Health and the Committee on the Elderly. Are there any comments? It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133436	I would point out that votes on any proposals for adoption will be postponed until Tuesday 28 February 2017. We need to justify this question, and Mrs Pernille Skipper, the Enhedslisten, does so. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133505	Thank you. We have asked the Minister to address an open letter from 17 social organisations of 11 January 2017 to the Danish Parliament and, in this context, to explain the development of child poverty in Denmark and what the government is actively planning to do to counteract child poverty and the social consequences resulting from it. As I said, it is because of the request from 17 social organisations and the open letter to the Danish Parliament that we have put a question here today. Because this is a request that we in the Enhedslist believe should be taken very seriously. The request shows that the organisations are sending out what they themselves call a cry for help, because the reform of the social security system affects thousands of children and risks leading to lifelong consequences for those very children. Among the many organisations are the Children's Council, the Children's Association Council, Save the Children's Board, Children's Conditions and the Danish Social Advisor Association, Danish Handicap Organisations, Mother's Aid and many, many others. It is therefore some organisations which are very actively involved in the everyday life of vulnerable children in Denmark and who have sent what they themselves call a cry for help. They say that if the Folketing does not respond to the development of child poverty, it will have consequences far into the adult lives of children and therefore also consequences for society. It must be a bottom-up task for the Folketing to prevent it. The discussion here today must then go on how we respond to that request. In other words, how do we carry out the task of preventing the violent consequences of child poverty? I hope, of course, that the Minister will and will be able to do so.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133656	Thank you to the rapporteur for the questions. And then it is the Minister for Children and Social Affairs for an answer to the question put. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223133706	Thank you, and thank you for the question. I have been asked to explain the development of child poverty in Denmark and what the government is actively planning to do to counteract child poverty and its social consequences. And the background is an open letter to the Folketing from 17 social organisations, which I have also had the opportunity to see when it came. I would like to say that the messages that the organisations are sending are messages that I am actually taking in. These are also messages that contain some themes that I will be acting on with the social policy tools that I have at my disposal. And I also have a very good dialogue with a great many of the organisations concerned, and I would also like to add that I appreciate the very valuable cooperation with the players. First of all, I would like to say that, of course, it makes an impression when children live in a daily life where the money only goes to what is strictly necessary. But my basic starting point for this whole debate is that we do not solve challenges such as deprivation and negative social inheritance by providing parents with higher benefits. Instead, we need to focus on lasting solutions that solve the underlying causes of low income and social problems and that are based on a documented effect. Estimates of poverty do not help to solve social problems, and letting income be the only indicator of deprivation becomes simply too narrow. Because we risk precisely ignoring people who are not economically poor but who are nevertheless socially at risk. For example, it may be the parents of children with alcohol problems, where the economy as such is not wrong, but where abuse makes the needs of children both materially and emotionally neglected. Conversely, there may be children in families with relatively low income, who have a good childhood and a safe upbringing, where parents prioritise children's needs and take strong care for their well-being and development. So the picture is not quite that simple, and a poverty line, such as the United Kingdom. the former SR government set out, shifts the focus from the root of the problem, i.e. the social problems, to a focus exclusively on low income. In the longer term, education and a job are the best protection against poverty and the best way to make people master of their own lives and be independent of the systems. We must therefore deal with the deprivation and social problems that people experience in everyday life, and there are many aspects of it. In the letter, the organisations refer to the SFI's deprivation study, which shows that there is a link between education, health and poverty. But the study also shows that half a million Danes experience basic deprivation in everyday life. 97% of them would not be poor according to the poverty limit mentioned above, so it is much more and much more than a cramped economy that leads to deprivation. People can feel poor for a wide variety of reasons. Most of us can agree that there should be money for clothing, food, and medicine. But, compared with many other things, attitudes are divided. For example, are you poor if you don't have a bike or if you don't have a computer or even a certain kind of computer? The experience of deprivation is individual and by its very nature will also be different. I want to say that I fully agree that there will be families where it can be difficult to get the money to reach, and this requires tough priorities in the individual family. I accept that as a matter of fact. And as the organisations have said, we see a need for more cheap housing. Therefore, the government will discuss with the municipalities what can be done to provide more small, low-cost housing. The cash benefits reform and the cash benefits ceiling must ensure that it is worthwhile to work in relation to receiving public support. It is both common sense and fair and fair to all those who go to work every day, also to a modest salary. But the stakes are on two legs. On the one hand, it must be worthwhile to work and, on the other hand, people on cash benefits must have the best support to become part of the community in the labour market. The latter is just as important as the first, because cash benefits must only be a temporary benefit, I cannot stress that enough. There are people who have social problems that prevent them from working, and my task as Minister for Children and Social Affairs is to ensure that social solutions are developed and disseminated that make a real difference and bring them closer to work or education. And it requires more knowledge on how to solve the social problems that prevent some people from being able to participate and work. That is why the government is organising social policy in order to achieve the government's ten objectives of social mobility, which is that more people should be part of the working community and that fewer people should be socially vulnerable. Lack of resources in the family can be a low level of education, it can be a lack of links with the labour market, it can be poor health, limited networks or a low income, but the low income is usually the result of a low level of education, of poor health, a limited network, not the other way around. We know that not all children grow up in families where the learning environment supports that there is also a natural focus in the home on language development and learning through e.g. reading aloud, conversations at the dinner table and involvement in cooking, and the consequences are already seen in the early years of the children. Some children are two years behind, both at the age of three and at the start of school, when we look at their linguistic and social skills, and that is something we just have to take seriously. The most important thing for children and young people to break the negative social heritage is that they grow up in a secure environment with sufficient cultural and social resources. Niels Ploug is also mentioned in the book Social Inheritance and Social Injuries. That is why it is crucial that we ensure a good framework for families as an institution in society so that we can help children well in life and so that the upbringing you get and the values you have with you from home follow you all your life. As a society, we must provide parents with the best basis for taking responsibility and taking care of themselves and thereby becoming good role models for their children, and parents who go to work also create, as a starting point, a family community based on healthy values to contribute to the community, to be an active part of society. A part of it is a social aid that works and brings vulnerable people closer to education and jobs. One thing is the parents, and then there are the children themselves. It is at the heart of the government that all children and young people should have a good starting point in life. They must not be lost because of a need for special support, but also because of a lack of professional qualifications. The skills that are formed early in life are of great importance for the children's further development, and therefore it is important for me to support that children find a stable foothold, where they thrive, where they learn and where they develop in the early communities so that they do not fall outside the later communities of life. Here is my focus for vulnerable children and young people. It is primarily about ensuring a good daily life in day care, school and later education. With our social mobility objectives, the government will therefore also be measured by the fact that more vulnerable children and young people acquire better professional skills in primary and secondary education, as education is the best foundation for building adult life. The social efforts sought with the development programmes in the rate pool are therefore aimed at working and increasing the conditions for participation in the Community in the long term. By the autumn, we have set aside just under 200 million. kr. More than four years in the area of children, the children's framework, and the pool of rates have agreed to spend the funds on active interventions. Furthermore, the development and investment programme for vulnerable adults has an ambitious aim of effective methods and can have a secondary impact on children when efforts for their parents are successful. Families are the foundation of children, and daily offers are their everyday life. This is where the power needs to be put. Indeed, the foundation of everyday life is essential for early preparation of children for a good life, and this is the reason for the day-off play that comes here later in the spring. We also know that the best investment in children is to make early investments. Denmark is in the top five in the world, measured by how much money we spend on day-to-day offers compared to GDP. This is very good, but our day-off offer is not enough to break the negative social heritage. That's thought-provoking. This is among other things. the reason why the government is making the day offer, where we have set aside 580 million. kr. extra over the next four years in order to enhance the quality of daily offers, including: by ensuring better learning environments and thereby increasing focus on learning and well-being for all children and by focusing on reducing the negative social heritage. My message to the debate here today is therefore: yes, there is a shortage of children and families, but it is a mistake to boil the problems into a matter of economy alone, when, moreover, we have a considerable task in solving social problems and getting more people into the community. In fact, I think that sometimes it can even be harmful to focus so unilaterally on social benefits when so many people at risk need social assistance that works better than today. It is not so often that politicians give such promises or guarantees from the parliamentary platform, but I would guarantee to do my best and my utmost with the social policy tools that I have at my disposal to prevent children and their parents from suffering deprivation or living long-term outside the communities of society, and therefore I also welcome the debate and professional expertise when it comes to finding solutions. Thank you for the floor, I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223134738	Thank you, Minister. Any questions for the Minister will be saved for after the rapporteur round. In a question, the order of the rapporteurs is that the first to speak is the rapporteur of the authors of the motions. Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223134802	After all, the government's own figures show that the number of children who have to live in economic poverty will almost double as a direct consequence of the cash aid reform that is going through in these days. Then it may well be that the government will not recognise the poverty line of the previous government, or that it would rather talk about some other things than the economy, but the fact is that there will be more economically poor children. Against this background, 17 organizations have written to us in here. They themselves call it an emergency cry, and they want us to do something to stop child poverty and its consequences, because that has consequences. Children living in poverty often have poorer health, and they often have a worse chance of attending primary school or of getting an education beyond school, and therefore I am also surprised that the minister is standing up here saying that a low income comes from low education and not vice versa. In other words, it may actually mean that if you grow up in a low-income home, you have a worse chance of completing an education. Children who suffer deprivation are excluded from communities, and children who live in poor conditions often go and take parents' concerns on board instead of thinking about what children should think of: football, girlfriends, finger painting and such things. Although one believes that parents do not bother to work and that this is probably why they are on cash benefits and that if you just push them on the wallet and if it just pays to work, then we should at least agree that it is not the children's fault. Even if you choose to ignore the fact that two thirds of those affected by the cash aid reform are not really ready for work at all, then we should agree not to ignore the children. Even if you do not even have sympathy for the children who are affected, you should know quite rationally that this is an incredibly bad long-term investment, because children growing up in poverty often also have some problems or are at greater risk of doing the things that cost society, that is, health, social problems, etc. I wish the government would start to act more on these issues. Because we are often told that social problems are about much more than economics and the amount of cash aid, and the Minister has also repeated this now, and that is, in fact, true. The economy cannot do this alone for socially vulnerable people, but poverty tends to exacerbate social problems, and things always become a little more incalculable by the fact that you also have to worry about how to pay rent, and that is, in fact, very trivial, but still not really recognised from in here. It may be that the government thinks you get to work if you get pressured on the wallet. What we are told is that there are a lot of people on cash benefits for whom it is not worthwhile to work, and if you put them into income, they will get into work, and then they will not likewise have social or health problems that prevent them from doing so. I am convinced that making sure that people have a secure and solid financial basis to live on will make it easier to understand the social problems and find a job and ultimately become self-supporting with a solid economic basis. However, if we agree that this is not just about the economy, then we should be able to talk about what we do now. In fact, the government has carried out a cash aid reform which is only about the economy and which is based on people getting into work only by giving them less money, and then you stand on the platform and claim that we others are only talking about the economy to solve social problems. The Minister also says here from the platform that what we have to do now is that we need a social effort that has a proven effect. I just have to ask where the documented effect of the cash benefits reform is. So, who has documented that all these people who are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, the integration allowance, the 225-hour rule, are going to work? There is no evidence of this. Yet you just assume it. I would like to suggest to the government and I know that you are tired of discussing the cash benefits reform, but we will probably continue to do so a little further. At least you will start to become something more concrete about what tools it is that you will then use to mitigate the consequences. I have heard that they must have a proven effect, and I have also heard that some funds have been set aside around them, but what exactly will be done has not really been said. My speaking time has now passed and I will read out a proposal for adoption, and it is on behalf of the Enhedslisten, Social Democrats, Radicals, Alternatives and SF: Proposals for adoption The Danish Parliament notes that 17 child organisations have sent an open letter to the parties of the Danish Parliament with a request to change the course that sends many children into poverty with the risk of serious and lifelong consequences. It must be taken seriously. The Danish Parliament notes that political action towards parents also affects children. Children who have lived in poverty often have poorer health, are at risk of poorer education, are at higher risk of becoming unemployed and have lower income as adults. At the same time, child poverty reduces social mobility and the deprivation suffered by children due to low income in the family often means that children are excluded from communities and become lonely. The Danish Parliament notes that the government's policy increases child poverty and therefore calls for a change of course and instead work intently to eliminate child poverty in Denmark. V 43).
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135411	Thank you. The proposed adoption is now part of the further negotiations. There is a brief comment from Mrs Pernille Bendixen, DF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135424	Thank you very much. Mrs Pernille Skipper says that now the government must act and get started looking at what we can do, and I agree with Mrs Pernille Skipper about that. So I just want to ask in all piousness whether Enhedslisten will help to see what we can actually do in concrete terms to alleviate child poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135449	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135451	I am incredibly pleased with the question, because it is about exactly the part of my speech that I did not manage to make, namely what I think should be done. And some of what I think should be done is, among other things. to ensure that social workers are associated with all day-care institutions, so that there is both a professional sparring with the educators, how to be aware of which children may be exposed in one way or another, and that direct contact can be established between a social worker in the day-care institution and the parents. There is good experience with this in several municipalities, so I think we should do it. I also think that the scheme should be extended to public schools, so that you have a social worker, just as you used to have a health care provider. Now I have run out of time, but if the rapporteur asks me again, I have more to say.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135542	The rapporteur then does. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135544	Yes, the rapporteur does so, and the next question, of course, is: will the Enhedslisten then put forward concrete motions for resolutions in this Chamber, and what could it be?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135553	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135555	Some of that, for example. In the past, it has been suggested that social workers should be assigned to all day care institutions. Something else we would also like to expand on is a special effort for exposed and poor pregnant women, because we know that some of the social problems can start really, really early, so if you make an effort and help early, yes, then you will also get some of that done. So we have already put forward concrete proposals on a specific midwifery effort and special mothers' groups to expose women who give birth.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135629	The next question is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135632	Thank you. Thank you, too, for your speech and for the start of the debate. I am just a little puzzled by the text adopted by the rapporteur, because it does not seem to me that I could hear the ceiling on cash benefits being included. If this is so crucial to child poverty, why has it not been written in the text of the adoption that the ceiling on cash benefits will be abolished?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135656	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135658	As the rapporteur well knows no, I do not know that the rapporteur is very well aware but, as the rapporteur may know, the Enhedslisten has previously put forward texts for adoption which state precisely that we want to abolish the cash aid reform with our votes as soon as possible. There are other parties in here who have promised that. It is very close to being something that might remind us of a majority after an election, but one party has yet to make that promise. If we are really lucky, the Socialist rapporteur will come up here in a moment and then she will give it up.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135730	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135733	Thank you for that clear answer. Then the rapporteur also says in his speech: if only you had sympathy with these children. Does the rapporteur not believe that the Liberal Alliance, the Conservative People's Party, the Left, the Danish People's Party have sympathy for children who grow up in discontent? Does the rapporteur honestly believe that we do not care about these children, or does the rapporteur think that this is about our having different political positions and that we have different approaches to how we think we help best?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135812	I will start by correcting the rapporteur. It may well be that I have not made myself clear enough in my speech, but I actually said that even if you do not have sympathy for this, you should realise that it is socially a bad investment to let social problems develop because it costs on the long track. It was not an accusation that some parties in here do not have sympathy for some groups. On the contrary, I know that Mrs Laura Lindahl has great sympathy. I believe that Mrs Laura Lindahl's policy harms people in socially vulnerable positions and makes the problems worse, but I know that the rapporteur owns sympathy.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135848	And so we can thank the rapporteur. And after several events, it is now finally Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223135858	Thank you. Yeah, maybe I'll get to know the procedures when I have my 20th anniversary in Parliament. That would be appropriate, wouldn't it? Well, first of all, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for calling the question. Like the 17 social and professional organisations that have written the letter referred to, we are also very concerned and we think that we should heed the warning against government policy. And what we are concerned about is the consequences of the ceiling on cash benefits, and that is the consequences of the 225-hour rule. And the consequences that are referred to are that you have to do without winter boots, and you have to do without medication, and you have to see parents do not have three meals a day because they simply cannot afford all three meals if the children are also going to have something to eat. Or, worse still, we are concerned about the long-term consequences of growing up in poverty with great deprivation resulting for those children and also for our society. For when educators and social workers and children's organizations like the Children's Conditions and the Children's Council and the Children's Association Council together with the nurses and the Mother's Aid and the Church's Cross Army say no, there is something wrong. These organizations know what they're talking about, because they're the ones who have these issues every day. And it is they who daily experience the negative consequences of the government's sanctions against children. And they say no. They tell how they experience children who have to do without clothes and social activities and the good children's life that we others would like all children to have because their parents are hit hard by the reduced benefits. Children who have lived in poverty have worse health, they are at risk of lower education and are at higher risk of becoming unemployed and, moreover, of having lower income than other adults. Poverty reduces social mobility in our society. There is an analysis from the Workers' Employment Council that concludes that the chance to pass the 9th-class test falls sharply if a child has been poor for just one year. That is to say, children who would not even be included in the poverty line of the previous government. So we are talking about the possibility of passing the 9th class test being drastically reduced if you have been poor for just one year of your childhood. Letting children grow up in poverty is such a bad investment. And one thing is that it is in the economic sense, but it is also so in relation to people, in relation to breaking the social patterns we have in our society. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Social Affairs. It is also the responsibility of the Minister for Employment. It's kind of messing around between the two chairs. However, it is very, very clear in this area that we have a single government which does not intend to make it easy for the Minister for Children and Social Affairs, I would like to say that it is the voice of the children and the socially vulnerable at a time when a ceiling is being implemented. That's what you call a urian post. Because the number of poor children is rising, and it also went up through the '00s, the last time we had these low benefits. The government and the minister will certainly not tell us exactly how much and have abolished the tools we have to measure. And of course it's incredibly convenient when you know that last time you had these benefits, child poverty increased. And it is not numbers that are nice to be confronted with in public, so the smartest thing is, of course, to abolish the border. It is clear to everyone that the current government is not interested in measuring the number of people who are poor. And the way you talk about it is to say that poverty is not just about money. Yeah, it may be, but I guess it's about money too. So it wasn't possible that in this area too we could go in and look at what the consequences are for people? Well, they won't. The ceiling on cash benefits came into force on 1 October last year, and the first month alone affected 43 500 children. And it is absolutely true that it is far from all the children who will fall below the poverty line of the previous government. A smaller proportion of them will, but there is no doubt that this must be the biggest social policy event that has taken place since this government took office and not just the 3-party government, but since Lars Løkke Rasmussen became prime minister. Then the minister says from up here that the government will provide more cheap housing, and they have started discussing this with all sorts of people. So, that is an order that is completely on the moon, because in it there is some recognition that there are actually people in this country who can't afford to pay rent, typically in the larger cities, because there are simply no cheap dwellings that need to be built. Well, wasn't it possible to change the order? In other words, was it not smarter to say: then we start by providing the cheap housing, and then we can discuss benefits? I mean, the other one seems like a real collective punishment. If you recognise that in the big cities in Denmark there are not enough cheap housing, then you can turn around on the order. The other one just seems like such a fig leaf policy. You know that you will be attacked for this because the differences between the country and the city are incredibly large in terms of cheap housing. So I guess this is what we're gonna attack for when you implement the cash benefits ceiling. And so do we to God in heaven. And then you come up with some talk about you sitting around talking to all sorts of people about something. If you mean it, put your hands on the hot plate and wait to introduce the ceiling on cash aid for the larger cities until the cheap housing has been provided. Then there is one question which I had just on my tongue, which I was able to press on to at a time when it was against all the Rules of Procedure. Now I put it in my rapporteur's speech, and it is: the Minister says in his speech that it does not solve social problems with higher benefits. Okay, but does it solve them with lower benefits? Well, if you don't want to focus on the economy, you could say that you actually give people money so that they can survive every month and make things stick together. And then you could focus on the other tools that you think are more important. But I have to ask: does this actually mean that the benefits should be even lower, and what is the balancing point that we think is the right thing to solve the social problems that exist? We fully recognise that more things need to be done. That's one of them. Therefore, we demanded all the millions we have set off in connection with the rate pool. But we need to talk about economics.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140528	Thank you to the rapporteur. We stay in the ranks of rapporteurs named Pernille, however, here it is Bendixen, the Danish People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140538	Thank you. Yeah, it's a little overwhelming with all those Perniller. We must provide the social assistance that works. The idea of sending more money, and then all the problems are solved, is therefore too easy. In fact, it is also a kind of disclaimer which waves off a flybone: we have sent more money, the problem has been solved. In fact, one might also fear that it could become a kind of sleeping pillow, where one says: we have now increased the benefits, and then we really do not have to do any more. Some kind of minimum standards, you could call it. Instead, it would be more constructive if we looked at the individual family and looked at the specific problems they have, and did not cut everyone off and think that all problems are solved in the same way, because we cannot. Low incomes are often not always, but often the result of low or no education, poor health, mental illness or lack of employment. With their query text, the questioners ask what the government will actively do to counteract child poverty and its social consequences. That must therefore be the starting point for the debate we are having today, so what can we do together here to combat child poverty? It is therefore also my expectation that the questioners themselves here today will offer constructive ideas as to what we can do together, and the questioners have already done so. Our approach is to help those who do not have an education to get one. We need to keep people on the labour market and we need to get unemployed into jobs. First of all, we need to break with the negative social heritage, and that is why we need to strengthen our day-off offer so that they can be better at fulfilling that task. So we must also help parents to help them to carry out that task. A simple thing like reading aloud with a child can actually help lift the child up the ladder of education. The Danish People's Party, together with the government, has made a proposal for adoption, which we naturally hope the authors will support, so that together we can make that effort for our children. I read out the text: Proposals for adoption • All children in Denmark must have the opportunity to acquire the conditions for a good adult life, and vulnerable children and families must have effective and caring help that is about more than material deprivation. Poverty must be counteracted by the fact that much more people join the community. For vulnerable children and young people, it is primarily a matter of ensuring a good daily life in day care, school and later education. Unfortunately, many families do not succeed on their own. Parliament therefore urges the government to invest in developing and anchoring effective methods and promising social practices targeted both at vulnerable children, young people and their parents and to ensure social consideration in the upcoming day offer. The 45 billion. kr. We must use social contributions every year so that even better results can be achieved than at present. Parliament will therefore take action so that the path to good education, education and employment is supported for vulnerable families. • V 44).
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140841	Thank you. The proposal is part of the further negotiations. Then there are a few brief comments and we stay in the Pernille family, because now it is Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democrat, who is the first questioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140855	It makes it in some way incredibly easy to ask questions; you just have to remember that people are called Pernille when we discuss social policy. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party in what way the ceiling on cash aid contributes to the elimination of child poverty.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140911	The ceiling on cash benefits is not designed to counteract child poverty, so it is a strange comparison to make. The ceiling for cash benefits is made because people, many people not all, I fully acknowledge that just go on passive support, and so it is harmful for the children to have parents who have nothing to stand up to. One might say, in fact, that you can have a low self-esteem from going home and having no connection with the labour market and the community that belongs there, and that is therefore an important part of resolving other social problems.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140941	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223140943	Then I really just have two questions. Does this mean that the rapporteur recognises that it actually contributes to the creation of child poverty? That is the first question. The second question is this: does the rapporteur recognise that more than 50% of the budget is spent? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. The bourgeois always answer that they should not be on cash aid, but what if as a concrete example it is a person who is blind and who just has not been able to find a job? So why doesn't he have to be on cash? Everyone wants this to be a temporary benefit for the blind, for society, for employers. So where is it that the blind person who is looking for work, who really wants to work and has done so for years, must be at home if it is not on cash benefits until he or she finds a job? This is probably the right place to be, for they are not going to take early retirement, because early retirement is a permanent benefit and they actually want to get a job. So where is the blind person supposed to be in the Danish People's Party's optics?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141046	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141048	Now I would like to say that what we are discussing today was called on because the proposers wanted to discuss child poverty, and I am a child's rapporteur, and if it is that you really want to discuss cash aid reform, then you have to call the rapporteurs to do so, because I do not have that petty knowledge of where the individual benefits should be and where they belong. I would like to say that sick people should of course not be on cash aid, but then there may be grey areas in it, but that should be taken with the person who is the rapporteur in that area. In terms of creating child poverty, I would say that I think it is very dangerous to enter into that debate, because I actually think you can stigmatise people in a way when you suddenly tell them that they are actually poor, even though they did not really see themselves as poor, and I think that can actually be really bad for them, and I think they would think: well, are we poor, we may be bad people, or what? I don't think we should go into that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141139	Thank you. The next question is Mrs Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141144	Sir. Carl Holst is sitting here feeling left out because his name isn't Pernille. No, I would actually like to stay a little bit in the discussion about the economy, because we are discussing child poverty and, of course, you can be mentally poor, but you can also be economically poor. Does the Danish People's Party recognise that economic poverty has negative consequences for children's upbringing?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141225	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141227	Both, and, I would say, because of course it makes a difference whether your parents have a lot of money or whether they do not have a lot of money, but it also makes a difference how parents handle not having a lot of money. There is a big difference between whether you as parents either try to lift yourself out of the problems that exist or just get stuck in them and actually spread a negativity to the children. But of course the economy makes a difference.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141254	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141257	In fact, I very much agree with the rapporteur on this. There is a big difference between how to handle and go to having very little money. I have two questions for that. One is: does the rapporteur and the Danish People's Party recognise that it is true that poverty often leads to social problems? It may be a bit a discussion about the hen and the egg, the two things can complement each other, but does the Danish People's Party recognise it and that it can therefore also affect the parenting ability to be put in a poor financial situation? That's one thing. The second question is: Is it the children's fault that parents either have a good or poor parenthood? And is it fair that they suffer from it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141355	I'll take the last one first: is it the children's fault? I'd say it's never the children's fault. Children are pr. definition of innocents in everything that may hit them. That is also why I really think we should sit together and find out what we can do. For now there is a ceiling on cash benefits, and that is the starting point. There are many things that can be done. The rapporteur himself mentioned to me some of the things that can be done and there are plenty of other things. That is where I think we should sit together and see if we can find any constructive solutions. In relation to what the rapporteur says about poverty following social problems, I would say that sometimes it does and that it is sometimes the other way around. However, I think we should recognise that there is of course a good chance of doing so, and I think we should also see whether we cannot find a solution or solutions to that. There is no solution to that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141446	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. And then we move out of that circle and we go to mr. Carl Holst, Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141458	Thank you. Thank you to the authors of the motion for a resolution for having wanted to have a question debate on child poverty. I think it is important that we do not have a fixed opinion that child poverty is merely a matter of crowns and ears for spiritual poverty is an equal challenge in a lifelong process, compared to what is being stimulated with. It is in this light that we need to see the text of the proposal for adoption by government parties and DF to focus on children in day-to-day offers. I also think that one should have the approach that if crowns and ears should be the answer to everything, also in terms of increasing social mobility, then it is surprising that social mobility in Denmark is significantly lower than in countries with which we usually compare ourselves; this also applies to countries where the level of cash benefits is significantly higher than in Denmark. I am sorry that the debate is being turned into a matter of crowns and ears alone, because for me it is a question of: has Danish social policy so far proved to be conducive to social mobility? No. Has it shown that crowns and ears for socially disadvantaged people are the only solution to the challenges? No, Denmark is at the top. That is why I am actually pleased that we have agreed widely among the pool parties to look at what is having an impact on social policy. And that is in that light, one has to read the penultimate section of the government party and DF's proposal for adoption, in which we call on the government to invest in developing and anchoring effective methods and promising social practices targeted both at vulnerable children, young people and their parents and to ensure social consideration in the upcoming proposal for daily offers. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141743	Thank you. There are a number of brief comments. The first is from Mrs. Pernille Skipper, Enhedslisten.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141747	Thank you. I think it is an exciting approach to stand on the platform from the Left and tell you that it isn't all about crowns and ears at all, and then don't give a single estimate of what this is all about, that is to say, other than you have a few crowns and ears that you are going to put in the day-care area at a later stage, but not how. I really think that is an exciting approach. I would really like to stay in that with the fact that it is not just about crowns and ears because, by the way, I agree, it is not just about crowns and ears. The government doesn't deliver anything else. The government's own cash aid reform was designed to remove people from cash aid and get them into work, that is to say lift them out of what you call passive support, and into work exclusively by means of pressure of crowns and ears. Well, where's everything that's not about crowns and ear from the government's hand?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141901	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223141902	I am pleased that the questioner thinks that the Left has an exciting approach and that after a few sentences she points out that she agrees. Then we both have an exciting approach, namely that it is not just a question of crowns and ears, because if it was a matter of crowns and ears, many problems might have been solved, given that we are at the top in terms of the cost of day offers compared to countries we usually compare with. We are at the top of the level of cash benefits compared to countries we usually compare with etc. As far as the question is concerned, we may not have been good enough to clarify that we are trying to explain our approach by writing in the text of the proposal for adoption that the government will invest in developing effective methods and promising social practices; so we are saying that it is not a question of crowns and ears, but a question of looking at whether there is something that works and something that does not work. We are saying that it is not just a question of the level of dependency. One must also look at the fact that social mobility is created by leaving primary school with some skills; one goes out of the day offers with some quality; in other words, it is other than economic poverty, it is also spiritual poverty. After all, civil society has a role to play here too. I can look at the President, and I have to stop now. I hope the questioner will ask again.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142031	The questioner then does.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142033	I think it's getting more and more exciting. I just have to say that. It's not about crowns and ears. Ergo, the Left has chosen to make a reform aimed solely at how many crowns and ear people get. And then you're going to look at something with civil society and something with proven impact. Let me ask you this: I can hear from the rapporteur of the Left and also from the Minister that the government is happy about the social stakes with proven impact. Is there any documented effect that putting people on lower social benefits increases social mobility or increases the chances of their getting out of social vulnerability?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142120	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142121	I can't really figure out where the questioner is. On the one hand, the questioner agrees that it is not just about crowns and ears, but also about other things. And on the other hand, I'm being blamed for talking about things other than crowns and ears in the answer to your question. I'll answer the question you asked me when I come down from the platform, but now I only have one question I can answer. It is not unimportant, then, that we find that in Denmark we spend more money than other countries we usually compare with and that those countries that spend less money than us have greater social mobility. We have to take a look at that. If we do not have social mobility with the amount of money we spend, perhaps there is something in our methods, our means that are not good enough, and that is what we want unveiled. I do not think it is just a question of reducing the level of cash benefits. No, the purpose of the ceiling on cash benefits was to create a better balance so that it would pay better to get into the working community compared to being on permanent public support.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142239	We need to be helped to remember the charges, even if you become eager. The next in the line of questioners is Mrs Marianne Jelved, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142244	Thank you. I noted that the rapporteur of the Left says that these are not just economic problems, and I quote: spiritual poverty is equally important. Finally, the rapporteur concludes by saying that crowns and ears do not do so alone. There I would like to demonstrate that Mr. Carl Holst actually admits that the economy plays a role, but not only but then the economy also plays a certain role. That's just what we can't see the government recognizing.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142325	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142328	Economics also have a role to play. I've been trying to spread it out a little bit, that it's about something that's wider than that. I do not think I have ever had the approach that the economy is not I am happy to measure the level of the cash aid ceiling, as the level that is among the highest in the world is something we can be familiar with in terms of helping people who temporarily go outside the labour market.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142413	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142415	Yes, that is a rather inappropriate way of standing in the dialogue, because I would very much like to discuss this further with the Left. Now I quote from the bourgeois' proposals for adoption in the first and vulnerable children and families must have effective and caring help, which is about more than material deprivation. Poverty must be counteracted by the fact that much more people join the community. I fully agree with that. I just have one question: how? We haven't really heard that: how?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142452	I recognise that this is perhaps an inappropriate form of dialogue, so let us also continue it at another time. In this context, the Community is the working community. That is what I tried to explain and argue in relation to the level of cash benefits, but it is also another community: the social community, the civil society community, what was widely criticised when the then government, with Karen Ellemann as minister, launched the ten social objectives. But I believe that the fact that, as part of temporary passive support, you are part of voluntary social cooperation or association is one of the promotions. For social poverty is almost as bad as economic.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142541	The next question is Mrs. Trine Torp, SF. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142544	Thank you. I would just like to put a very specific question to the rapporteur. The rapporteur talks about spiritual poverty, but what is it?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142602	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142603	It is that you do not get good education, education and employment, and the frequency of socially vulnerable people who do not get it is too high.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142618	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142619	I would like to say this to Mrs Trine Torp and not to Mrs Pernille Trine Torp, as the President said. The Pernille thing is getting out of hand.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142626	After all, not so many Perniller are there, but thank you for that. This means that when there is economic poverty, there is also spiritual poverty. I can understand that only about education. Is it correct to understand that spiritual poverty is only about education?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142642	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142650	No, that's not correct. I have not said at any time that economic poverty and spiritual poverty cannot be linked. Nor have I ever said that spiritual poverty is exclusively about education. I am talking about poverty in a broad sense and being excluded from social, social and other matters. That is the kind of poverty in the broad sense that I am talking about. Where the education part comes in is, of course, that we can see that socially disadvantaged people are getting a bad start to life. They get too little out of the day offer and elementary and higher education. Here we have non-existent social mobility in Denmark. This is the starting point for government initiatives, according to the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142744	Then, on the other hand, we're on solid ground again. Now it is Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, the Social Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142750	Thank you. Now I understand from the rapporteur of the Left that the benefit, the economy can play a role. The benefits may be too high. I agree with that. What then is the big question is whether the rapporteur also agrees with me that the benefits can also be too low, so that in themselves it becomes a dynamo for other types of social problems than that of the economy alone. It is a rather simple question: can the benefits be too high, but can they actually be too low?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142822	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142823	Yeah, they can. I do not think that one of the world's highest levels of cash aid available to Denmark after the ceiling on cash benefits is that. But, of course, services can be too low. I think the questioners generally tend to think that this is black and white, either-or. I acknowledge that it may be difficult to relate to what I say, other than that you find it exciting. But frankly, what must be the nuances of social policy in Denmark is that we do not believe that this is a figure we can make from a statistic, but that we look at the individual in relation to the challenges and opportunities they have. That is just what I am trying to do with the text of the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142913	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223142915	Now it is the government which has set up a ceiling on cash aid, where the individual social worker is not allowed to go in and put in all the nuances that Mr. Carl Holst is talking about. You must not go in and say that here there is a family where it is precisely the economy that makes the difference. They can't do that. Then I'll just have to go into a little more detail about whether the benefits can be too low. Because when there are 17 organizations that are addressing themselves and shouting seriously in arms, maybe it is not an indication that they have just become too low; that you have actually fallen below the fine limit that is, between the fact that it must of course pay to work; that is what most of us think; but that, on the other hand, it must also be the case that people have a decent standard of living? I would just like to appeal to you to listen to 17 organizations. By the way, I've heard the minister say it just before that the government is going to have to provide more cheap housing. It must, of course, be an expression of the recognition that, especially in the larger cities, this is causing some really big problems. And that's exactly what these organizations are supposed to say. That is why I would just like to ask the rapporteur once again: could it be possible to get there, where the benefits are particularly those places where the rents are very high, have simply become too low, and that it creates child poverty at a level that we have not seen very long in the history of Denmark, and that is why so many organisations are shouting as loudly as they do?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143038	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143039	The rapporteur's party itself helped to make young people's benefits, which reflected the belief that economic incentives were a way forward for people to move forward in their lives. Again, I do not think that the cash benefits after the ceiling are of a size that creates problems for living. Then I've just been trying to spread it out more. The rapporteur then mentions a number of questions and comments. I'm trying to see how many of them I can answer. More cheap housing is already under way. It is part of both the two and the three-way negotiations to see whether they can be promoted. I think it's 642 million. kr., you've set it off. Finally, the rapporteur asks whether we are not listening. Of course we're listening. We simply do not believe that the way forward is merely several crowns and ears, but that we are doing what we propose to do in accordance with the text of the proposal for adoption.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143147	Thank you. Then it's mr. Christian Juhl, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143150	I think it is very one-sided when liberals talk about how to get people who do not have jobs into work. Because you always look only at those who have no work and say there's probably something wrong with them. You don't look at the labour market that doesn't let them in. If a liberal now believed in his own theories of incentive and such things, a liberal dared also offer the right to work, the guarantee that there is a job for everyone who is not in work. Why on earth do you dare not give it the right to people in our society: Hello, here is a place for you, we guarantee that, because we believe in you? Then we were free to discuss the suspicion of people who do not have a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143236	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143237	I do not quite recognize the fact that, as a liberal, I just think negative about people who do not have any work at all. I just disagree in terms of attitudes and values with the fact that the societies in which all work has been guaranteed have been communities that are worth striving for as a happy society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143302	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143303	The rapporteur was sneaking around there. We are constantly discussing whether the amount of benefit benefits the opportunity to enter the labour market. That is not why I am looking for a job, that is that I feel bad, that is because I want a job and I want to take care of myself. But I have seen plenty of people who both seek 30, 40 and 50 jobs a month and never enter that labour market. Then we can keep talking about that benefit forever. That is where I think the liberals are irresponsible when they dare not give that guarantee to those people who so want to enter the labour market. Then you're just gonna start talking about the performance being too high. It is a silly discussion; it is a discussion which leads nowhere and which only points to the fact that there should be something wrong with those people who do not have a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143352	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143353	I disagree with the interpretation. The 225-hour rule could actually be interpreted as an attempt to say to people: You may not be able to contribute full time, but you may still be part of a community and have a working identity. That way you have an approach to what they say: We believe in you, and we will not just place you so that we can have a good conscience by giving you some money without having to take care of you being self-supporting. See, that's liberalism I call it belief in the individual and the awareness that helping self-help is more the way forward than cold on the part of the state saying to people: Here's some money. We have a good conscience, and you are on permanent public support without being part of a community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143441	In doing so, we would like to thank the rapporteur. The next rapporteur is Mrs Laura Lindahl, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223143448	Thank you. Well, basically, such a general debate on child poverty is a little absurd to have here in Denmark, where we have some of the world's highest benefits, even after the ceiling on cash benefits. Well, the situation in Denmark is that, fortunately, the vast majority of children and young people have a very good life, but unfortunately there are also children who are miserable. And I believe, in fact, that by sticking to wanting to talk about child poverty as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits, we are removing focus from those children who are actually facing problems. They are children who are being careless; children who are being violated; children who grow up with violence as part of everyday life. These are the ones we should focus on in Denmark, and not children who suffer material deprivation during a period when mother and father or father are not at work. The best thing we can do here is get Mom and Dad to work, and we in the Liberal Alliance are preoccupied with that. It's also one of the points with the ceiling on cash benefits, so that it should pay better to take a job, because then the incentive to take this job increases. And we think that's the best way to break the negative social legacy, that is, to see Mom and Dad get up and go to work. In the article which Enhedslisten in the question debate here asks the Minister to take note of, the concerned organisations describe some examples of how wrong things are in Denmark. We can read about a woman with three children who has moved from a two-bedroom apartment to only be able to rent a room with a friend. There's also a woman who has three boys who can't afford winter clothes. And there's a mother for a child, and she only eats once a day to make sure her child gets something to eat. It sounds really hard, but I would like to insist that we get some facts in place in a debate about economic poverty and the economy. The woman with the three children, who cannot afford to live in a two-bedroom apartment, but must rent a room with her friend, receives DKK 20,300. paid each month. 20,300 kr. paid per month, after tax, after the ceiling on cash benefits. In addition, she gets free space from her municipality for the children if they go in daily offers or SFO, so there is no cost to that. So this is 20,300 kroner. must cover rent, consumption, household, clothing, savings, unforeseen expenses, and whatever else we have. And I'm surprised if you can't get 20,300 kroner paid out to cover more than a room with a friend. The woman, who only eats one meal a day to ensure that her child is fed, receives 14,500 DKK. paid after tax, after the ceiling on cash benefits. That's not much money. I'm not saying that 14,500 kroner. is a dance on roses, but 14,500 kroner. should be enough for both mother and child to get food three times a day at least that you can have a roof over your head and that you can get food. The signatory organizations in the article strongly urge the Folketing to abolish these benefits and prevent someone from being put out of their homes. And we can just take the numbers in relation to people who are exposed. If you compare the figures, as has been done, from January this year with the figures from January last year, then the figure is lower than ever in relation to delays. Right must be right, it can come. I understand that the ceiling on cash benefits has not been in place for a long time now either, so that they can get there. However, as is currently the case, there is no indication that more people have been evicted as a result of the ceiling on cash benefits. The Left makes it sound as if Denmark has become a social mass grave after the introduction of the ceiling on cash benefits. If you try to look a little bit at how much help there is for families in the municipalities, then I think it is a completely different picture that is being drawn. Frederiksberg Municipality, where I live, naturally has a family department that responds to notifications. And besides, there are a number of ways to get help. Of course there is a passport system, and I am of course saying this, because that is what has become of course, namely that for those families who cannot afford children to participate in the association, there are some leisure facilities. Then there is anonymous advice for young people, families, their parents, where they can freely obtain advice. You can also seek financial support for a number of things. These are the costs that have arisen as a result of sudden changes in one's life situation. You can receive subsidies for changes in your life when you stop living together, change in your job situation or the like, temporary assistance in paying rent, medical treatment, medicine, dental care, general dental care, removal expenses and expenses associated with your association with children who do not live with you. For children and young people with disabilities, there are also special consultants available, plus that there are a number of costs that are covered with additional costs. Then you also have a health centre where a number of forms of assistance are offered. There are exercise counselors, smoking cessation courses, alcohol detoxification, dietists, guidance for overweight children. Pensioners are entitled to a pension for retirement. I think that if you look at all the offers there are, they try to create a really fine-meshed safety net in the municipalities, and they do very well in the vast majority of municipalities. So the picture of Denmark as a social mass grave is simply out of step with reality. And I do not believe that child poverty can be reduced to a matter of the ceiling on cash benefits. As previous rapporteurs have also mentioned, it is very much about social policy. And here I would like to help look forward, because what I have been talking about here, and many of the other rapporteurs have also spoken about, has been a bit backwards-looking and a cash aid ceiling that we have introduced and what the consequences have been. However, if we are to look ahead and say how we can help those children who are actually in difficulties and where it is about something other than the ceiling on cash benefits, then I think that some of what we have set in motion in the pool of rates is very good. I think it's going too slow. I think this whole pool way you do things, that's putting something in a pool and trying it out, has become too uncertain. At least not very good evidence has come out of it so far. But we are, after all, some who are in the pool of rates and who are actually working to make it much better: increased volume, whether you can really find out what works. So that way is right. And then I will hold on to the fact that it is also important to get Mom and Dad to work because it can help break the negative social legacy. It is important for children to see Mom and Dad get up in the morning and see Mom and Dad be happy because they become part of a working community. So that is clearly also something that we must continue to focus on. The Liberal Alliance supports the adoption text which the rapporteur of the Danish People's Party read out earlier. Then I would actually like to sign for the debate, because I think it is important that we take the debate. However, I hope that in the debate we can also have more nuances than what I actually thought the debate was about to begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144317	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144319	Thank you. I have to understand the rapporteur correctly because it sounds as if the rapporteur thinks that there are many of the problems children have in Denmark that have little to do with the economy. That is how I understand it, and the rapporteur must correct me if I am wrong. But if it is the case that many of the problems that children have, which must be taken seriously, do not come from poverty, why on earth does it help that their parents get a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144346	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144348	After all, it is not because I do not believe that poverty has an impact on children. I just don't think you're poor when you're living on cash benefits in Denmark as a provider. I really don't think that like a mother of three kids who get 20,300 kroner. paid out every month, is poor. However, just as the rapporteur of the Left put it on the floor before me, I would like to say: of course economics means something. But I don't think you're poor when you get 20,300 kroner. paid each month. I also believe that there are other things involved in seeing Mom and Dad go to work, seeing Mom and Dad be part of a community, which is very good for children; I think we all agree on that. That is why it is important.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144430	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144431	Thank you for your answer. I would like to ask, in general terms, why the rapporteur thinks it is necessary to set up a cash aid ceiling and a 225-hour rule when we have a good economy in Denmark. We have increasing employment, and it goes really, really well too far, by the vast majority. Why, then, is it that we need to create a situation where there are some at the bottom of society that only gets worse? Why is this necessary?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144501	In other words, it is to create an incentive for even more people to join the working community that we have. This isn't for me or for the Liberal Alliance about wanting to make somebody feel like trying to keep people in poverty. On the contrary, it is actually about us wanting more people into the community. I fully recognise that we have a different view of how we believe we can succeed in doing so. But my opinion is that I believe that if you are pressed on the money, you are willing to take some jobs that you would not be willing to take if you were not pressured on the economy. It's a matter of opinion, and that's where we just disagree.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144542	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144543	Now I can't memorize the single mother with three children. On the other hand, I can say that for the second time, the sum of DKr 14 600. is a gross amount. I just think we should bring that. The 14,600 kroner. is a gross amount. It's gonna shake your head. Well, then we'll have to give the documentation for it, because I'm standing with the text of the law in front of me. The amount is DKK 14,600. or $2.50 (U.S.). to be precise and that is a gross amount. The personal allowance is then about DKK 45,000. a year, which means that it's all about people who have to pay taxes on this. Now both Laura Lindahl and I live in one of the most expensive municipalities in the country, and then we can start discussing with each other how much an apartment costs at Frederiksberg. For that matter, it could be a one-room apartment and then we can see what is left of money afterwards. I think that is a crucial point. There are so many people who think that living in Copenhagen should not be a human right either. No, of course not, but a lot of single parents have an ex-husband, and what about the ex-husband, and what about the 7-7 scheme and the child's attachment to the one parent if they move to Lolland? That's why in this case of child poverty there are some tentacles that are very long and have a very long reach. I am aware of a case where the mother is forced to move outside the city, and then there is a father with his hair in the mailbox, because she is a resident parent, so she can decide where she wants to live, and then the children are moved far away from him. So I would just like to ask: will the Liberal Alliance not recognise that going in and taking such a dramatic approach to people's economy obviously have very far-reaching consequences for the families we are talking about?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144725	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144725-2	When I say it's 14,500 kroner. For a single parent with a child, it's all inclusive, and then it's the amount after tax. This means that it includes housing support and child support. This is what is being paid in total, including child support, housing support and special support. With everything you get, a single parent lands with a child of DKK 14,500. That is certainly the figure provided by the Ministry of Employment. Yes, I fully recognise that it has far-reaching consequences for families when you go in and pillage them substantially in their amount of money available, but that is also the point because we want to push them into work. I just have to say that I believe that it makes a difference what you get in public support, compared to the willingness to take a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144817	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144818	Well, then we'll take the example of the blind, which I also had in front of the Danish People's Party earlier today. It is a blind person who has been looking for work for years without being able to get a job because he is blind. This blind person has some children, and those children are now going to live in poverty because of the government's cash aid ceiling. In what way does Mrs Laura Lindahl think that the ceiling on cash benefits should contribute to the fact that someone who has been looking for work for years should suddenly be able to get that job? It is usually said by the bourgeois side that they should not be on cash aid at all. Yes, of course they should. Well, you're not planning on blind people suddenly going on early retirement when they want to get a job, are you? And that's the alternative service. So don't want to park people. However, allow people with disabilities to work and do not make them poor because they are actually trying to make an effort for our society.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144909	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223144910	It is quite crazy to say that, because we have introduced a ceiling on cash benefits, we will not give people with disabilities a job. Well, whatever the performance is, that's not where the dog is buried. The blind woman, who has applied for 40 jobs a month, or whatever the example is, does not have much easier to get a job because the benefit is DKK 2,000. higher or lower. And that's why there's an independent point in saying: we just have to help her in work. We do not hold her in passive support, and we certainly do not want to sicken a woman because she has lost her sight, because we do not believe that she is. We think that she can help in the labour market, but that requires something quite different, for example. a growth agenda to get businesses moving, which will create better opportunities for getting a job. But it has nothing to do with the ceiling on cash benefits that a blind woman has difficulty getting a job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145006	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145009	That is where Mrs Laura Lindahl is wrong. It has something to do with the ceiling on cash benefits that people with disabilities find it difficult to get a job. For if they are on cash benefits, they are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits and their children are affected by the ceiling on cash benefits, and this has consequences for their upbringing and their everyday lives and their opportunities to get an education and a job later in life. This has consequences for their opportunities to be part of the community as children. So it has something to do with the ceiling on cash benefits, and I think it is telling that Mrs Laura Lindahl is actually admitting to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil that a blind woman on cash benefits does not come more or less to work on whether the benefit is DKr 2 000. higher or lower. That's what Mrs. Laura Lindahl said. Nevertheless, the Liberal Alliance has chosen to make a cash aid reform that takes a great deal of money, including from people with disabilities, to push them into work. Well, that's contradictory. I would like to ask whether the Liberal Alliance has any evidence at all that the cash benefits reform will have an effect and get more people into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145126	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145127	Then I'd like to correct. In relation to the ceiling on cash benefits and the question of how high the benefits are, we believe that if the benefits are lower, the incentive to take a job will be greater. I spoke to an electrician who had applied for a lot of jobs in his profession. He had been refused, and then he asked me: What should I do? Now I'm being hit further by the ceiling on cash benefits. Then I said, "Well, have you looked anywhere but in your own profession?" No, he didn't, because he was an electrician, and of course that's what he wanted to work with, he said. There was my message to him that he has to take another job outside his profession until he can get a job as an electrician. And there is exactly what we think, that it is not appropriate or reasonable if the ceiling for cash benefits or the benefit you receive is so high that you can sit back and wait for an empty seat to become available for you in the electrician profession. In fact, we believe that he should take a job in any business to support himself until he can get what for him is the dream job. That's what this is all about, and we believe in it and feel absolutely convinced that it works. This is also what the Ministry of Finance's figures indicate, i.e. that there will be an effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145248	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145249	The figures from the Ministry of Finance indicate that there will be an effect, that is, there is simply evidence that people are being pressured on the wallet to work? I am asking because we are people in here who work on social policy on a daily basis, and I think I have heard Mrs Lindahl say 100 times! That things should be evidence-based and that we should do things that work. Do we know that the cash benefits reform is working, or is it something that the Liberal Alliance believes or is the effect documented? That's what I asked. Then I would just like to correct one small thing, and that is the completely insane picture that you can sit back on cash benefits. For one thing, two thirds of those on cash benefits are considered not to be ready for work at all. They have a lot of things that make them by no means reclining. Second, they're being shoved through an activation system, so we just got it in place, right?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145353	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145354	Well, it's absolutely true that it's wrong to give a picture that you can just sit on the couch on cash benefits, that's how I know the system isn't. I know you get pushed around in all kinds of bets. So I admit, it's a wrong picture to give it up as if you can just sit at home on public support and enjoy yourself on the couch, because you can't. I guess that's what's kind of the essence, is that you can do two things. If you believe in incentives, you can either have a level of performance that is so low that you believe that people themselves actively want to go out and find a job because they want to get away from the low benefits, or you can have a system that we have, where we hunt people's free time, if they are on transfer income, in the hope that they will then come out. I only see the two options because I believe in incentives. And I am not sure that I like the model we have chosen in Denmark, where we have a high level in our transfer income system, if you compare with the countries we usually compare with, and in return hunt people's free time. In fact, I think that I am more in favour of having lower benefits and then not chasing people as much, but that people themselves have incentives to get out more quickly in any job.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145504	Mrs. Trine Torp.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145507	I'm gonna be curious about that electrician. Has he got a job after maybe he's started searching somewhere else? I mean, when I ask, of course it is not just polemics, but it is also because of the example that Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil mentioned earlier, with a blind man or woman who has been looking for years. We know from the disability organisations that their members want to work so much, but those jobs have not been set up for people with disabilities. These people are completely innocent. They will live on poverty benefits. That is just where I would like to ask whether it is quite reasonable that children who grow up in those families should be placed in a much worse position than their peers during their childhood because their parents cannot get a job. They must live in the uncertainty of whether their parents can afford what it should be. They may be forced to move to another part of the country. I just want to know, does Mrs Laura Lindahl think that's okay?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145621	..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145623	Of course, I think that all people should have a job. It is clear that when you hear stories about healthy people who want to enter the labour market but who have difficulty in doing so, it is sad; but it is hard to know whether some single case has worked. Compared to this electrician, I don't know if he's in a job now. But I hope that he has lowered the bar for what his next job should be so that he has fewer demands on what it should be, because he just wants out of the now lower benefits, but for me to look away still high benefits. I hope he lowers the bar and says: the next job is not my last job, and it may not be my dream job, but it is a way to increase income. I hope the same thing with the people who have a disability. I understand that it may be harder for people with disabilities to get a job because they have some challenges, but I think that the 225-hour rule is in fact also an indication of how to get closer to employment if you do not have the opportunity to work full-time.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145741	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145742	Okay, so we don't know if this thing about pushing people on their services actually works at the general level, and we don't know that at the specific level of the electrician either. I very much agree with the rapporteur that incentives can then make sense if people actually have the opportunity to move, i.e. they have the opportunity to get a job. But what about all those who can't?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145810	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145811	Well, all those who can't do that, you work very intensively in the municipalities enough for but you work very intensively on this, that is to say, to get the activity ready to become job ready. It's not like because you're ready for activity, you just get left in that box. You work very systematically to get these people into category so that they can get into work.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145837	There are no more brief comments, so we thank Mrs Laura Lindahl from the Liberal Alliance. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Torsten Gejl from the Alternative. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223145848	I doubt if you can get the blind to see by moving them around and pushing them into the cash assistance system. I would also like to remind you that, according to the Ministry of Employment's own calculations, this whole exercise, called the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, will provide 600 jobs. Well, we're not talking about a job party here, we're talking about a very, very limited effect. Thank you to the 17 Danish organisations for their cry for help in relation to the consequences it has for children when you cut into thousands of families' cash benefits consequences, which are even completely unnecessary, because there is no argument for cutting the help of the cash benefits recipients. In the alternative, we must therefore note with great surprise that we are choosing to make the deteriorations here which amplify the problems of vulnerable children and parents at a time of good economics and increasing employment. Why would you do that? But it is, in fact, the Minister for Employment who should be asked about this. Once again, a situation in which wrong decisions have been taken in the Ministry of Employment, in this case the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, has very serious negative consequences to which we must address, among others. in the social field. Overall, I believe that the money made and saved on the cash aid ceiling in the Ministry of Employment is again lost in health expenditure, in the judiciary, in the social area, as a result of making these families and children poorer. Because, as the 17 organisations write, children who have lived in poverty have poorer health, they are at risk of poorer education, they are at higher risk of unemployment and lower income as adults, and they are therefore SFI researchers to whom they refer here. This development is reinforced by the ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule, and the most important thing is to get it rolled back, to re-establish a better economy among the country's unemployed families, and not least the 75% who are ill and cannot respond to financial incentives. But until we get this far, we have to fight to alleviate the problems that we create in children's lives by making their families poorer. When it comes to remedying the social consequences for children at risk, I would like to mention a few initiatives, some of which we in the Committee on Social Affairs are in the process of doing, while others are ideas which I hope we will get started with. I think the Herning model is really interesting, where you make sure you get more case workers on the field. Care is taken to make a faster, earlier effort for children with the same caseworker as far as possible, involve the family and make an overall effort. It turns out that it is a model that spreads very much because it turns out that it naturally creates fewer children at risk. Another method is to reinforce the resilience of children to life. We are currently looking at a mentalisation model in the context of the wage-pool negotiations. I hope that we will be able to introduce a model that can be used by all children who have been placed, where help is given to get from alarm to thinking brains, that is to say that you will be able to deal more with your own life and get a robustness that you can use throughout your life. Something else we need to look at is the care area. In 2014, we spent 9.3 billion. kr. 11,000 children. That's 850,000 kroner. per child that year. We need to do what we've been talking about for a long time, and soon get that care area looked through properly and make supervision for foster families etc. We have promised each other that for a long time, we simply have to get on with it. Something else is after-protection, so we ensure that children, such as: has been placed, has a bridge out in reality, so we ensure that they get a proper foothold. Finally, I would like to mention some of what many children, who have broken the negative social legacy and have actually moved on, say. It is: What was important to me was that I met an adult who took me seriously, an adult who taught me what is up and down, what is right and wrong and who believed in me as an individual. It may be one in civil society, it may be a leader in a leisure scheme, it may be a school teacher, it may be a football coach, it may be a scout leader. This is very, very often, the story that lies behind a real pattern wrestling, and we must of course understand how to exploit and create opportunities for this, including in civil society with voluntary mentors, etc. All in all, it should not be so difficult to grow up in Denmark. It shouldn't be so impossible. 1% of all children become e.g. Stand down. It shouldn't be that difficult to grow up in a rich society. Right now we just have to recognise that we have a growing negative social heritage. The ceiling on cash benefits and the 225-hour rule are a very large factor in reinforcing it. So thank you to the 17 organizations that have been involved in making this distress call. As both social and employment rapporteurs, I have a humble hope that one day I will go up this stairway to this platform to announce that we are abolishing the ceiling for cash aid once and for all. This is perhaps the best we can ever do for the poor children of Denmark.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150359	There are a few brief comments and the first is from Mrs Laura Lindahl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150412	Thank you. It was the rapporteur's opening remarks that the ceiling on cash aid would hardly make a blind person see again, and I would just like to ask the rapporteur whether the rapporteur believes that this is what is needed in order for a blind person to be able to get a job, so that she can see again. Does the rapporteur not think that a blind person can get a job in today's Denmark?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150423	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150427	Yes, thank God. However, I think that the rapporteur for the Liberal Alliance makes it sound as if by pressing the poorest people on cash aid, especially the part that is sick, they can somehow be cured. In other words, it is as if there has been such an idea in the government that work or company practice in itself is medicine, and that is what I am reflecting on there.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150451	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150453	So I would just like to make it quite clear: does the rapporteur think that a blind lady is ill and that she will be well if she can see again?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150500	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150502	I don't know if I'd call blindness a disease. There are many, many blind people in the labour market in Denmark, but it does not help to cut the aid to them; they do not recover from it. The rapporteur referred to the fact that we are making all these efforts to make people healthy, and that was precisely an answer to Mrs Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil, who had talked about this example with a blind person, and there is just what I am saying: Dear rapporteur, in this way we do not get blind people to see.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150530	Mrs. Pernille Bendixen.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150534	Thank you. I think it was a rather awkward remark, that is to say to make a blind person see again, because we are talking about something else, and I wonder why you should say something like that. However, I would like to know in concrete terms whether the alternative, in the event that they have government power or become a support party for a future government, will remove the ceiling on cash aid.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150558	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150602	I think that is a OK question, but I cannot understand why the rapporteur is asking it, because the rapporteur would like to keep this talk away from the ceiling on cash benefits. But the answer is: Yes.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150611	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150614	The reason I'm asking is that you're doing nothing but harcelating over it, so it's a logical question to ask, I think. The rapporteur says that you want us to help families to have a better economy, and that must cost some money, so how will you finance it and how much money will you throw into ensuring that families have a better economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150634	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150637	We would like to have the cash aid ceiling rolled back so that we get the rate that was before the cash benefits ceiling. And there are many ways to finance it, for example. could not be sacrificed 800 million. kr. in job prizes that you don't know about working. You could spend half, or you could spend half billion, it would cost money, to roll back the cash aid ceiling.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150709	Mrs. Pernille Rosenkrantz-Theil.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150713	Now a lot is being said about this blind thing and seeing, and the Danish People's Party goes so far as to say that it is an unfortunate remark and asks why one should say something like that at all. Then I have to ask the rapporteur to confirm that it is the case that the blind, who have a desire to get a job and have been looking for years, are being hit by the ceiling on cash benefits. So when you stand and say that all sorts of things have been put in place, because that is actually what Mrs Laura Lindahl said, that the government has put all sorts of things in place to help people get closer to the labour market, I would say that what is the challenge for the blind is that nobody wants to take them into the labour market. It is true that some blind people are getting a job, but it is a huge problem that there are not enough jobs for the blind and, therefore, they are more affected than all other groups by the ceiling on cash benefits. So when we talk about all those things that the government should have so obviously put in place to help people enter the labour market, I would ask how in the world they could remedy the structural problem that blind people cannot enter the labour market. For the blind, they have the experience that, in order to enter the labour market, they must be able to see that, because they are blind, they cannot enter. It is not about being sick or healthy or one thing or the other; it is simply about blind people having a real difficulty getting a foothold on the Danish labour market because it is not particularly spacious. Can the rapporteur confirm this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150831	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150835	Yes, I can confirm that, and it's not just blind people, it's sick people... thousands of sick people... who are unable to take a job right now, and who have a really hard time getting there that just gets poorer. So they don't get any closer to the labour market, but they're just still away sick and they're getting poorer.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150849	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150851	Now, when we hear that the whole point is that we should help people closer to the labour market, I would like to ask the Alternative whether we can agree so far that perhaps it should be the labour market that should be helped closer to the citizen, because in the context where the citizen has sought and sought and sought it may be the blind citizen we are talking about and he has been looking for work for many, many years, it is typically the case that he has started on unemployment benefit, but has gone out of the benefit system and is now in the cash assistance system and has not been able to get a job over all those years, then perhaps it was the labour market that should be looked at rather than the citizen. After all, it is the citizen who takes the full penalty in the eyes of the goose and is put down in service. It is their children that we are talking about today, after all, they are the victims of child poverty statistics. It is their parents who have been looking for work over and over again, but cannot get in, it may be the blind one, it may be the mentally ill one, it may be others who have suffering, so not just let themselves be fixed down at the job center by some extra conversation that has come out of this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150949	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223150952	Yes, and there we may actually meet again with the bourgeois, for it might be exciting to talk about how we make the labour market more flexible • creates more opportunities for flexible jobs, creates more opportunities for people to come in and make a small contribution where they can, because it means infinitely much for people to be able to contribute to the community.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223151010	Thank you, sir. Torsten Gejl. There are no more brief comments. And we warmly welcome Mrs Marianne Jelved from the Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223151019	Thank you, sir. President. The poverty benefits, as we choose to call them, were also in society before, and they applied under the first Lars Løkke Rasmussen government in 2009 to 2011, and there we found that it did not work; we did not solve the labour market problem that we are facing. In Denmark we can actually show some positive things, but we can also show some very unfortunate things. Now I will stick to the unfortunate ones, because these are the ones we are talking about today. We have an increasing inequality in health, we have an increasing inequality in social relations, we have an increasing inequality in education, we have an increasing inequality in economic conditions, and we have not broken the negative social heritage, although parties after parties and parliament after parliament have had it as their goal. It just hasn't worked! We also know what it takes, and that is why it is appropriate to ask: When will we reach the goal? It depends, of course, on whether we use the knowledge we have, whether we want to invest in real prevention, and there I think there are some good tactics in the way we work with the rate pool to allocate funds and provide opportunities to develop new solutions. We also know that early linguistic, motor and social development can help a great deal for children who come from lower socio-economic conditions. All children have the right to professional and social development together, and they have the right to be met by high expectations. Here again there is a typical wrong adult habit in Denmark that we must stop with. Adults tend to expect, if there is a child with fewer resources than other children, to expect less of those children with so-called lower resources, who will then be under-priesting, which means that they will never be lifted up. Denmark is, in fact, one of the worst countries in the world to break the negative social heritage because our children are underpriesting, but we can change that by changing the professional policy where the children are. The same children do not necessarily have the opportunity to look like the other children in the equipment they have in kindergarten, and they may not have brought the lunch box, they have not received an iPad for Christmas, they do not go to gymnastics Thursday afternoon with other girls and boys, their parents are not in a parent group or in a network group, so they cannot compete with the others. The child does not experience himself as one who has the right to be in the community on an equal footing with the other children who are in the children's groups. This isn't something I'm just pulling out of thin air, it's actually research-based knowledge. We also know from researchers that an identity is created in the individual's interpretation of the other's interpretation of the individual, and if one is in a group of children in a children's institution or in a school and constantly experiences oneself as inferior to the other children, it puts the impression in one's self-conception and in one's way of acting, and then the Minister can think so many times that the economy does not play a role, but it does. The problems are not only solved by better economies, but the economy is one of the factors that makes poverty a risk. The Folketing has a responsibility for children who fall through on all the parameters considered to be common standards in society. I once claimed in a circle of municipal politicians that I was proud that Denmark could not see who was poor. In fact, to my very big surprise, there was no agreement on that. So there are some who think that you should be poor and look poor before you get the right incentives to correct yourself and have a life at the same level as most others. In fact, some people thought that poverty was a characteristic of people's upbringing. Then we will just have to state, and I think we can agree on that if we had time to talk about it, that economy is not the only thing. There are a large number of other factors that come with a poor economy or that are the cause of a poor economy, and these are all the factors you need to see in a whole before you can carry out the task. More equal opportunities must be created so that we in the municipalities can invest in prevention. It costs for a period of time, but it can lead to fewer accidents and it is a better economic balance that we get out of it in society in the long term and it will be a much better society for people. So I think we should concentrate on moving on with that.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223151520	Thank you to Mrs Marianne Jelved. There are no brief comments. We move on to the next rapporteur, and that is Trine Torp of the SF. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223151531	First of all, I would like to thank Enhedslisten for raising this debate on child poverty in Denmark. I think it is important to listen to our debate. I have often been in other debates discussing the ceiling on cash benefits, the 225-hour rule and the impact of the integration benefit on child poverty in Denmark. Each time it ends up being a conversation about whether one or the other amount of money available is regarded as an expression of real poverty. In fact, I think that is a pity, because in this whole debate we forget to talk about people's real challenges and how they play along with their economic conditions. Poverty is a complex problem which is also very much social. Those who live in poverty can be both economically poor, but they can also have an abuse, mental disorders, weak social networks, lack a place to live or otherwise be at risk of exclusion from social communities. It is the complex living conditions that together create problems, and just about that, the lack of financial resources can be both a trigger and a sustaining factor for social marginalisation. As often happens in the debates, you can try to separate the factors and argue that it must be worthwhile to work, that you have to solve the most prominent problems first, etc., but in today's debate I think we have to deal with the professionals who tell us that there are when social workers tell us that there are families where children need to do without winter clothes, then that should make us react. When we're told that a mother has to skip meals so that her child can be sure of food, we have to react. When we hear stories about families saving on medicines and social activities, we have to react. And when we hear about families and children who have to move from their homes and out of their local environment to stay with friends or friends in very little space, yes, we have to respond. Especially when the reports come from professional organizations that know about the problems of citizens and meet them every single one. I think it is hard to imagine what it is like to be one of the children who grow up with financial insecurity. When children experience their parents'concerns in everyday life, they become worried too. It can be anything from overhearing parents' conversations about how the budget should last at the end of the month to actually experience that it does not and that it has consequences: that you cannot get proper food; that you cannot get to football; that you have to drop social activities that your schoolmates are going to have; that you have to suffer deprivation in a wide range of areas. It pushes children out of communities, and it creates loneliness that can affect the child far into their adult life. I think it is essential and a very important call made by the 17 organisations. These are organisations which, in one way or another, work very close to the consequences. I would urge that we take the concerns of organisations seriously and act accordingly from a political point of view across all parties. We must recognise their professionalism and we must act on the worrying trends they describe. Against this background, I really hope that we will soon be able to move away from the debate on whether there is child poverty in Denmark and on to actually tackling the problem. Of course, in the SF, we think that the poverty-creating benefits should be changed, but that debate was, as it were, already held on Tuesday. But what can be done? Yes, we can, for example. discuss how we can ensure that the children who grow up in the economically pressured families also have the opportunity to develop and participate like all other children. It requires good day care institutions with educators enough to have an eye on the individual child, could support their development and the children's communities in which they form part. This requires that we provide a school system where primary school is the natural first choice and where there is no user fee sneaking in through the back door. This requires a diverse cultural and leisure life, where it is not the wallet that determines whether you can participate. This requires that there are housing that is affordable, also with a tight economy, well to feel without having to tear your family out of their everyday lives and move to the other end of the country. And this requires that the municipalities have an economy that allows equal opportunities to be created for the active lives of the citizens affected by unemployment, sickness and so on. I hope that the government will make some suggestions for this, and otherwise I would just like to say that we support the adoption text which the Enhedslisten rapporteur has read out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223152039	Thank you to Mrs Trine Torp. There are no brief comments, and we move on to Mr. Orla Østerby of the Conservative People's Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223152048	After all, this is a debate which has also been very much about employment policy. It is not, in fact, in the area, but we have done so anyway, and it is probably also sensible to go into other hunting grounds. I would like to start by saying that I am proud to live in a country where we are at the top in terms of supporting socially vulnerable people, and that also means children. That is not the same as saying that we cannot do better. I don't think there are any societies that can say that they can't. But if it were spending money that could solve this, then Denmark would be the country that had solved it, because we are the ones who spend allerallerflest on it. In the social field in the municipalities we spend 45 billion this year. kr. No country can reach us in any area, even in the field of cash aid, which has been mentioned a great deal. We are at the top in terms of cash benefits, even though ceilings have been set. We still believe that the amount of money available to help families is such that one can live off that we will also admit that it is not a dance on roses. In this motion for a resolution by the opposition, it says that the Folketing criticises government policy for increasing child poverty, and the proposers therefore call for a change of course and instead work intently to abolish child poverty in Denmark. I am not allowed to say that we in the government base have set out to tackle these things. Some activities have been initiated and the government has set ten objectives for social mobility. It is all something that must be allowed to work and that has not been allowed to work yet. It is therefore quite early to say that the Danish Parliament must state that the government's policy is not working. The government base states that the government, based on the 2017 Rate Pool Agreement, will come up with a number of initiatives targeted at socially vulnerable young people and children. And that is what we are talking about here today. The government has set out the ten objectives of social mobility, which I do not want to read here, but which everyone here has seen. It's set in motion, so we in the bet pool have set aside funds to look at what it is that works in this area and then bet on it. The mathematical poverty limit has been tried in Denmark since the SRSF government introduced in 2013 an income of less than DKK 103,500. was poverty. It was abolished again, and I do not think anyone wants to introduce another poverty line. But can say that poverty limits also help to preach these people and stigmatise them in the society in which they live, and I think that has never been a good thing to do. The best thing we can do for young people is to give them a good education. After all, we also know that the fact that parents get an education and get out of cash and work is a very, very important prerequisite for having a good family life. I must also say that we are in the favourable situation, that for many families there is now the possibility of getting out of this poverty and this contan aid period. We have hardly ever seen unemployment as low as we now have. That means that there are the best conditions for getting those people into work. It hasn't been better in many years than just here in 2017, and it seems to continue with the good opportunities. In relation to the poverty of families, I have also experienced families who have been rich in money, but who have been somewhat poorer than the families we would call poor when we look at family life. And that is why it is not money here that totally determines whether a family is poor or not. Of course, we have sympathy for disadvantaged families in the Conservative People's Party. It is therefore incredibly important to be able to help the weak and to make a distinction in order to help those who need help. In what we are talking about here today, the family is the most important thing to get out on the other side. The family is a network, civil society is a network, the working community is a network, schools are networks and associations and institutions are networks. I must also say that in this debate I find that if you come from West Jutland, you can see that there are, of course, some problems that you do not really see in the same way as those who live in it. I feel that this debate is going to be very much about metropolitan phenomena. They are there, of course, but I would just like to say that this is not what it looks like in Denmark. I also think it has been interesting to hear about the limits on poverty. I have to say that when I can see that a single mother gets 17,500 kroner, as has been mentioned several times, in cash benefits it shows figures from the Ministry of Employment and then, of course, there are some housing costs afterwards. And if you set the cost of housing at DKK 7,300, there is DKK 10,300. To live for. There I would say that there are many other single mothers going to work who have little more than that. So, in relation to the money issue, I think that even when the ceiling for cash benefits is introduced, we can be familiar with that. Another part of that is, of course, social poverty, and that is a completely different part. It was something like that, sir. Carl Holst mentioned, and which I think is thought-provoking, namely, that if you move down to southern Europe and see how they live down there, it is not because they have this fine masked social safety net that we have in Denmark. But despite that, there are some of the things that we see here in the social field that we do not see there, and we could learn a lot from that. Conservatives have to say that what you have to look at is the methods you use for this. We help the municipalities with that, and that's also why you have the bet pool that's used for these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223152832	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223152838	Now, as the rapporteur probably knows, 75%. Of the people who are on cash benefits, what is called activity readiness is that they are not able to take a job, they are not ready for work right now. We have heard today that they must be helped to do so, and we think that is very wise. Let us then give the people all the help they need to get on their feet, get healthy, get into the community, contribute in the way they can now, in a flexible labour market. But I would like to hear the rapporteur's opinion on one thing: why is it that people are being pulled into cash aid cuts before they have been able to take advantage of that incentive to participate in the labour market?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223152925	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223152929	Thank you. It is simply because mobility by taking a job depends, of course, first and foremost on the fact that there is an incentive to go to work. Now I understand that Mr. Torsten Gejl believes that it is 75% who are not ready for the labour market. I think there are slightly divergent figures for that, but if that is true, we just have to say that they are betting and that's what I'm saying about cash benefits for what the government has done with the cash benefits ceiling, which means that a family with two children gets DKK 23,200. paid after tax. And I would like to say that there is plenty of room for getting ready to enter the labour market; it is not a disaster for a family that you have these 23,200 kroner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153034	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153037	Yeah, well, I think my numbers are right now. The proportion of recipients of cash benefits, which is what is called ready for activity, is perhaps even slightly higher in reality. But my question was: if you want to cut their help and thus give them an incentive to go to work, why do you not wait until the people concerned are able to take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153101	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153105	Well, I understand the questioner, but I have to say that there are some areas that social considerations in government reforms take into account here. I would just like to list three points: people with disabilities living in an expensive disability home are excluded from the ceiling on cash benefits, people with permanent and significantly reduced working capacity due to illness are exempted from the ceiling on cash benefits and are given a resource cycle instead. That is exactly what we are talking about here. Persons with limited working capacity whom the municipality will assess cannot work in the ordinary labour market are exempted from the 225-hour rule, etc. The opposition forgets that on all these issues here today. That's where you forget all these exceptions. You want to protect all these people and think that you have a much greater love for them than the rest of us, who are socially conscious, you think you've got a point on this, and then you forget to tell all these things.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153205	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153208	That's not true. Those people have been deducted from the numbers that Mr. Torsten Gejl is talking about. Two thirds of those affected by the ceiling on cash benefits are not those who are excluded from the labour market, we are not talking about them. We are talking about two thirds of those hit by the cash aid ceiling are not ready for work. So perhaps the rapporteur would be kind enough to reply to Mr. Torsten Gejl's question, that is why you are not waiting for these people to be able to take a job before you hit them with an economic incentive. Why do you hit them with the economic incentive before they are able to take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153255	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153258	Whether they are able to get to work or not able to get to work does not change the fact that a family receives DKK 22,300, i.e. two adults and two children, after tax. It is simply the starting position, that is, that it is a sensible number. It is not certain that you can afford to live in Gentofte or at Frederiksberg in an apartment, but I do not take a position on that here. In this example, it has been decided that 7,400 kroner has been set. for warmth and light, and then there are 14,600 kroner. Back up. And then that's what I said to mr. Torsten Gejl that there are a lot of exceptions in the fact box around those who will be exempt from the 225-hour rule and those who will be exempt from the cash benefits ceiling. We have to remember them. All the rules that have been made for those people have been made so that they do not have to be hit by the ceiling on cash benefits, because they have some other expenses, and I think that is important to point this out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153357	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153400	I think that is also important to draw attention to. That's just not what I asked. It is true that there are a lot of people who are exempt from the effects of the cash benefits reform, but two thirds of those who are not exempted from two thirds of those who are affected have been assessed as not being ready for work. It is quite true that not being ready for work does not change your budgets or your rent, but it changes whether you are able to take a job. So when the government says you're doing the cash aid reform because people need an incentive to take a job, it's just, sir. Torsten Gejl asks. And now I ask for the second time: why not wait until they are actually able to take advantage of that incentive to take a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153450	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153453	I have understood the question one more time. This is the figure of two thirds, which has now been mentioned many times, i.e. that they are not ready for work. At any rate, I know that my own municipality and many other municipalities are in the process of making an additional assessment of it, because it is simply necessary to go through this again and perhaps once more. Although the opposition believes that they are the only ones who will help these people, we are others who also believe that we should help them, and we must do this by making them ready for work and helping them to get into work. We should not just confirm them that the very best thing that can be is to sit at home in the living room. We will do this by motivating them, and we will do this by making them ready for the labour market. That pile may have to be turned one, two, three, four and five times.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153549	Thank you, sir. Orla Østerby. There is no one else who has bitten to short remarks. Then we are done with the party rapporteurs and come to the Minister for Children and Social Affairs. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153600	Thank you, President. Thank you for a very good and constructive debate. One can see that we are dealing with committed and not least passionate politicians, and it is therefore a good, good pleasure to experience, even if we have to say that in such a debate as this there are differences to feel. But I think that's healthy, and I think that's good too. So thank you for that. After all, some children and some families may experience financial distress. I recognise that, and I actually see that today's debate recognises that. I think we need to make it clear with a thick line that good social assistance can also do much and can help to bring families out of a cramped situation and also closer to the many communities we have, also closer to employment. I was yesterday at a meeting with the Central Disability Council, who talked about this stairway: If we have self-reliance and employment at one of the top steps and we have a person that could be someone with disabilities, or it could be a socially exposed person down the stairs, then it's clear that you don't just jump straight up and get into self-reliance. Then there are some steps to pass. And the stages around which my social policy and the government's social policy are organised are always to ensure that we take care of the socially vulnerable and give them the help and care that is needed. That is absolutely crucial. What I am taking with me from today's debate is a concern and an interest for children as well. I'm really glad. It is with the organizations who have written to the Danish Parliament. It is with the rapporteurs, it is in the Chamber and it is in the spirit in which we have been discussing it. I'm really glad. I also hope that the widespread concern and interest will lead to a focus on how to create social mobility by means other than a higher level of cash benefits, which gives lasting effect and has a lasting impact on the people we are constantly talking about. So I would like to thank you for the debate and say that we have now had two good debates in a week. I still have a dream that at some point we will have a debate based on real social policy content. I still feel a little better, I think, but the dream is intact.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153842	There is a brief comment to be made to the Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Torsten Gejl.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153846	Now the Minister has had some time to sit and wonder about the answer. Because I would like to put the same question to the Minister as I put to the Conservative rapporteur, although I know that she is Minister for Social Affairs and not Minister for Employment. Why is it, according to the Minister's assessment, that when you introduce the ceiling on cash benefits, you do not take care to help those people who are not able to take a job • the two thirds of those who are affected? Why is it that the Minister considers that they are not being helped to get well so that they are able to take a job before cutting them into help and trying to give them an economic incentive to find a job?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153926	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223153930	In other words, we are going directly from social policy to employment policy. That's fair enough, too. I'd be happy to take it. My dream is intact, but I'd be happy to discuss it. I remember that during the negotiations, when we negotiated cash aid reform with the then Social Democratic Minister for Employment, Mrs Mette Frederiksen, we were precisely focusing on those who were too sick to get directly into work, and that was where we made the process of resource development. After all, a process of resources is intended to clarify whether it is necessary, for example, to do so. is education that is lacking. If that's it, we're gonna fill in there. Is the social exposure a social exposure which can be reflected in a negative social heritage or which can be reflected in other social problems that are involved and that make going out and taking a job tomorrow problematic? Well, then that's where we put it. Are these health reasons? Do you need clarification? It could be a disease that you need an explanation of. That's where we put it. There is, in fact, quite a consensus across the Folketing that it is a good idea to use those resources for the clarification to get up the stairs so that one approaches self-reliance in the end.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154052	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154056	Yes, and I hope that the resource flows will help to do so. After all, they were designed at the time because it seemed that too many people were getting early retirement, so they had their slate washed clean and said that they now had to go through resource and job training to see if they were entitled to it, which over 50 per cent. Turned out to be. When I keep asking and being persistent, it's because I don't really feel I'm getting an answer, and it's from a real wonder. In the view of the Minister, is there not something strange about pushing people on cash aid, cutting cash aid, giving people an incentive to take a job when there are some of those who get cut off their help, who do not have an earthly chance of it? I mean, it's really a sincere wonder, and that's why I keep sticking to the question. Does the Minister have an assessment of this?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154142	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154145	I understand that this is a genuine question. But I also hope that the rapporteurs are aware of the sincerity of the answer. Well, I guess we're just fundamentally disagreed. I therefore agree with the then Social Democratic Minister for Employment that the number of people on early retirement should be reduced. For what has the previous answer been to a young woman who was suffering from depression? The answer has been to be parked on an early retirement: we don't need you in society. I think that is a poor society, and so did the government then, and that is exactly why it was said that there must be a framework to try to get the individual citizen back on the labour market and to look at what the individual has in his luggage in terms of health, education and social matters, which will then have to be worked on in order to be able to return. So it's kind of not on the basis of any malicious will. It was simply a desire not to leave anyone on a platform that a broad majority went in and changed the rules for early retirement.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154250	Mrs. Pernille Skipper.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154255	Both the rapporteurs from the governing parties and the minister would very much like to talk about everything that does not have to do with the economy. I find it extremely strange that the great reform that the government has presented to bring people on public support into work is only about the economy. This also applies to people who are not ready for work and who have major social problems, and the Minister for Social Affairs knows what it means and how difficult such problems are to deal with. The reform is all about taking money from people. There are no other aid measures in that and then you stand and say that it should not just be about the economy. I just can't get it into my head, I just can't. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister some of the other things that could be done. So I would like to ask the Minister: will the government carry out annual deprivation investigations? Will the government increase non-financial support, for example? the right to leisure for all children with parents on a transfer income? Will the government place social workers in day care? Will the government make a special effort for exposed pregnant women? That's what I had time to ask before the time ran out.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154406	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154409	I could barely write down all the questions, but I have to see if I remember them. As far as annual deprivation studies are concerned, I am not sure how this should be worked together. We can see that the SFI has done a deprivation study that comes out widely. I think there are a lot of good things to get from that. In fact, the inclusion of a social worker in day-care institutions does a great many things. In other words, there are a great many municipalities that are working precisely to connect the social workers, but also the health care workers to the day offer, and I think that is really, really sensible. We can see in the report of the Small Children's Alliance, which came here in January, that some of the things they focus on are that if you can dress the health care workers better so that they can spot displeasure and lack of development and in a good sense can pass on the knowledge to the crèche in which the child begins, then we have a very, very strong basis. I also know that this is something that the Radical Left is very, very much concerned about. Again, of course, it is with emphasis on the fact that the health care provider should not have a control function in the municipality. These are things that I think are insanely important and I think that this is something that deserves much longer discussion than the minutes that I no longer have at my disposal up here on the platform.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154534	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154538	However, I did not ask whether the Minister for Social Affairs thought that what some of the municipalities did was sensible or whether it was a sensible deprivation study that the SFI had carried out a few years ago. What I was asking was, will the government do annual deprivation investigations? Will the government ensure that there are social workers in every daycare institution? Will the government make recreational clippers? The minister is also allowed to bring something else himself. After a very long debate, I am just looking for answers, and the only response to child poverty on the part of the government has been that it is not just about the economy, but we have not presented a single concrete action on the part of the government, which we will do and which is not about the economy. All we've heard is that people have to be pushed on the wallet. Where are the proposals that are not about the economy?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154638	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154641	After all, you are in the whole speech I made at the beginning. Because in my opening speech I just said that we are going to have a day offer. That's 580 million. kr., and there will be concrete proposals that exactly address social exposure. It's not gonna be much clearer. Do I mention these proposals from today's platform? No, I do not, because when we come out with it, we want to come out with it in a good way, so that it also gets some more attention than the otherwise guaranteed many listeners and viewers who are watching Parliament television right now, are devoting the debate. So, yes, we're coming with a whole lot, and it's gonna be part of the playout. Mrs Pernille Skipper can be fully reassured about this, and it is good to have a good calm in your stomach, including with regard to that part.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154729	Thank you, Minister. There are no more brief comments. Does anyone wish to speak in the second round? There isn't. The debate is closed and, according to the Rules of Procedure, the proposals for adoption are to be put to the vote, but I think we should do as usual, namely postpone the vote until another day when there are more in the Chamber. The vote on the two proposals for adoption will, as I said, take place only on Tuesday 28 February 2017.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154803	The negotiations have been opened. First, the party's rapporteur has the floor, then it is the minister. The first rapporteur to speak is Mrs Mette Reissmann from the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223154832	Thank you. Today we are discussing the draft law on the construction of the Natural History Museum of the State. Social democracy has from the beginning supported the construction of a new Natural History Museum in the Botanical Garden in Copenhagen. We also helped to find funding for the project when we were in government, so we support this bill that gives the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing the power to initiate and complete the construction work. With the new Natural History Museum in the Botanical Garden, Copenhagen is given a new cultural landmark, and there is no doubt, if you look at it from the Social Democrats, that it will also be a tourist attraction. It will strengthen Copenhagen, and it will really be able to satisfy the needs of the museum world so far. The new museum will inspire young people to work with science, which we also find an incredibly positive side effect for the project. And we get some brand new and modern facilities for research. The establishment of the museum is a construction project with significant risks due to the unique nature of the project. Its volume, its location and, moreover, its complexity mean that there is a reason why we treat it as a construction law. It must be established in a densely built area, which means that ordinary legislation will not be sufficient to regulate a project of this nature. We also see that it is necessary to have a separate regulation in order to avoid, or rather reduce, risks and uncertainties and thus avoid delays which may ultimately cost dearly. Unfortunately, we have seen too many examples of this in Copenhagen. On a number of points, the draft law derogates from plan, nature and environmental legislation, and when the legislative proposal derogates from existing legislation, it is essential that the planned, cultural and natural and environmental considerations underlying the relevant provisions continue to be taken into account in construction projects, for example. by implementing appropriate preventive measures. So, although this is a very complex construction project with a lot of uncertainties and risks, as there always are, almost in the nature of things, when we are dealing with such major construction projects, we must obviously not jeopardise the legal certainty of citizens or the environment. After all, we must not relax our concern for precisely the things referred to, and the Social Democrats are very much in favour of this. Therefore, it is also essential that the draft law meets the requirements of the Convention on Access to Information and Public Participation in Decision-making, as well as access to justice in environmental matters, the so-called Århus Convention. Overall, we believe that the draft law sets out a clear framework for the project, which is necessary for its implementation, while at the same time implementing a series of preventive measures necessary for the protection of nature and the environment. As I said, social democracy supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155206	Mr President, there is a brief comment to make. Henning Hylllested.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155210	I am pleased that the Socialist rapporteur is concerned about legal certainty for citizens in connection with the construction of this project. But is the rapporteur really convinced that it has also been taken into account? This is, in fact, a reduction in the right of appeal in relation to what is otherwise common in this type of project.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155240	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155241	Indeed, I feel comforted by the wording contained in the legislative proposal itself. I have also read both the hearings and the consultation note from the Ministry. Please note what I said in my speech about the experience of the major construction works which Copenhagen, as the capital, has had and, incidentally, still has, I have no doubt, and I have no doubt that the Minister is also not that it is, of course, necessary to learn from the mistakes and experiences from there, so that there will be no need to complain in this way. But the legal certainty of the citizens is extremely important, and that is something that concerns me and the Social Democrats. We don't think this bill is going to be overwhelmed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155329	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155330	There is no doubt that again, I would almost say, it is the great metro project and what happened to the metro project that frightens us. Citizen complaints eventually had suspensory effect here. It is a democratic process which we are going through and which is now in fact being put out of effect. I have my own doubts as to whether we are not really acting in breach of the Aarhus Convention, but we have had that discussion in the past too. I would say: is this project really comparable in the rapporteur's view to the major infrastructure projects, such as: the construction of subway, which has given rise to the use of this restricted right of appeal, which we also saw as the result of the trouble, let us just call it that, with the construction of the metro, and which was later implemented in the legislation on railways and roads and ports?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155424	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155426	I would like to stress to Mr Seligman. Henning Hyllested, that metro construction and other very, very large construction and construction projects each are unique. Each of them has its own challenges. There is no doubt that all major construction projects are individually challenged. So will this be. So, as such, I cannot compare the building of a new museum in a densely built area, which the Botanical Garden everything else equal is, with the making of the Metrocity Ring. I don't think so. Firstly, we are talking about a relatively limited area and not one that covers a geographically larger area, as is the construction of the Metrocity ring. I would like to stress that the Social Democratic Party will promise here from the platform to follow very closely the whole process and, moreover, to have a close dialogue with the minister responsible to ensure that the citizens of Copenhagen and, incidentally, those who visit our city are so assured that unnecessary inconveniences do not arise. The draft law also refers to preventive measures, so that we can, hopefully, learn from the process of expanding Nordhavn, when establishing the Nordhavn tunnel and building the Metrocity ring.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155547	Thank you to Mrs Mette Reissmann. No one else has been challenged by the rapporteur's speech. We move on to the next rapporteur, and this is welcome to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen for the Danish People's Party.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155558	Thank you. In 2004, the University of Copenhagen brought together the four Natural History Museums, the Zoological Museum, the Botanical Museum, the Geological Museum and the Botanical Garden, and in 2006 it was decided to gather the four museums under one roof, so that as a citizen you also experience this context. Both of them make very good sense and have led us to stand here today and have to take a position on a legislative proposal to enable the construction itself to take place. This is my first draft law as a building rapporteur, so I reserve the right to be a little puzzled as I get into the matter. I am a little surprised that it seems to be customary that when the state has to build, there has to be a law that allows for derogation from certain laws as well as right of appeal. Shouldn't it be absolutely fundamental that everyone is equal before the law? If it is possible to derogate from elements of the legislation on the basis of complexity, the volume and location of the project, I can, in itself, have sympathy and understanding for it. My surprise is that we do not have the same opportunities when it comes to more pressing matters as, for example. coastal protection and protection against the possible destruction of valuable cultural heritage due to the very often-occurring storm floods and floods that we are unfortunately experiencing. Fortunately, however, this is something that our cultural rapporteur and environmental rapporteur are working hard for. On the basis of the special position that I saw with this case learning that we have in other areas, perhaps there is a way that we can do so in this area too. The specific legislative proposal that we are going to deal with today, if we now disregard the principle, I am actually quite confident about it. It is clear that the work will be carried out in accordance with the local plan adopted in the City of Copenhagen, and a number of initiatives have also been described to ensure that the very valuable environment that is naturally in the Botanical Garden, where the museum is to be built, will be preserved. So, at this point... I see no reason to vote against this bill and look forward to the further process and, hopefully, the more fundamental debate on equality before the law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155806	Thank you to Mrs Merete Dea Larsen. Here too, no one has felt challenged to debate. The next rapporteur is Mr Seligman. Hans Christian Schmidt, on behalf of the Left, Danish Liberal Party. Welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223155820	Thank you. I would like to start by saying that, of course, the Left supports the proposal of the government. Then we've got it settled from the start. But you also have to say that when you look at these projects, we can of course not talk about the challenges and hope that they will go away. I don't think it's that simple. If we look back on which other projects are on the right track, we see that there have been some very, very large overruns. I would like to say here that I believe that what could be important in this matter is that all parties, in particular those who choose to support the proposal, give each other a hand in trying to have a discussion with each other on how to ensure that we do not again experience some very large overruns. You don't have to be wrong. Although I can see how the construction is with donatings and so on, it is clear that if you have a project that could provide some additional funding, you have to deal with how we deal with it. I just wanted to say that for many years I have had the pleasure of being in the Folketing. I've enjoyed that a lot. I have rarely seen a wording in a draft law which reads as follows: it is the assessment that this is an unusual construction project involving significant risks. Once you write it in a bill, I think we should count on the opinion that this is something that is deeply complicated. If you read it then afterwards, you can also see that it is a very, very complicated building. How should you pump water to keep walls and a building site free and pump groundwater down afterwards, so that there is no damage to buildings next door? I'm not going to stand here and discuss it, but with the experience I have in this area, it doesn't sound like the easiest process you're doing. That's why I think it's gonna be something we have to help each other find out. I think so too, because I do not think it should be left with the Minister. I think it must be all of us who go into it. I just want to call for us to do this right away. When I read on, I see that it says: "The project proposal before us is substantially adapted in a number of areas compared to the original project from the consultant. We just want to say that we hope that it is some changes that have been made that remain as they are, so that no one regrets during the process and may think that some of it should be brought back, as we have seen with certain other projects. I don't have to go into this, but I'd like to do it if it is. But we know that sometimes the project is being developed along the way, so it becomes something more expensive. It then says here, and it is rare to use it in a legislative proposal: that is, among other things. by the involvement of foreign investigators. It's been a long time since I've heard the word "searching." I understand that investigators are scientists who have worked on this to ensure the buildability of the museum, the buildability of a building. Those are rare words. And the number of uncertainties has been significantly reduced. When I make a stay here, it is because it has been the subject of a lot of debate that we have had. I just want to say to the new minister that I do not think it will start because the new minister has arrived. It's more because I think that with this project we owe it to each other to get it done, and to help each other put up some barriers so that it can't run away with us. That, in its simplicity, is what we want to say. We support the proposal. We would like to commend those who have given money for it, donated money for it to be possible. It looks exciting, it's gonna be good tourist and everything else. The point we have just made here and what we have said from the platform is that we think we should use some effort together to ensure that this is kept on the track that is intended for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160254	We thank the rapporteur. There is a brief comment, and it is from Mr. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160300	Yes, I cannot quite feed on it, because I thought it was a very interesting rapporteur's speech, sir. Hans Christian Schmidt came here. It is clearly a sort of expert we have on the platform right now, who has been involved in similar things and, at least, discussions at an earlier stage. I think that the rapporteur is setting out a number of important points. Among other things, reference is made to the fact that there are significant risks, and this must then justify the wish to ensure the momentum here. That is to say, the right to appeal is to be suspended. The rapporteur knows everything about this from time to time as a minister. One could also be conspiratorial and say that the concept of significant risks has been invented in order to be able to use the restricted right of appeal which the Ministry of Transport came up with in the last session of L 134, where it is removed from the environmental authority. I also find it interesting that the rapporteur is setting out the concepts that we have not heard before: "Principles', as the rapporteur says, and "buildability' and such things. I do not know whether the rapporteur feels the same way as I do, but it makes some alarm bells ring with me when you start introducing such new concepts of a construction project which, indeed, can be complicated, but it is no longer complicated either.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160430	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160431	Well, I just think that when you're into something that goes beyond being public construction projects that you know a lot about, like... roads and bridges and something like that that we are experts in building, which may not be experimental construction, but which is the closest one can come to being that, so the alarm bells must also ring. So they also have to do so when you think about how complicated it is here to build underground. Well, that's what we've seen over and over again: where is there really anxieties, where is it really hard to build? It's underground. And this project has to be done underground for a large part, and it has to be done in a place where groundwater is too high at least it is too high for us to avoid having to pump it away. So you have to pump groundwater at the same time to ensure that it is dry. I don't think I need to spend much time explaining to people what water in connection with construction projects has meant for projects we have built over the years, but it plays a very important role.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160539	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160540	Complexity and great risks: Yes, but will Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt dares to compare this project with projects such as Metrocityringen, Femern, Frederikssundsbroen, how do I know where the Ministry of Transport has abolished itself to environmental authority and ensured that in future you are an environmental authority and can override the right to appeal as we know it? Mr. Hans Christian Schmidt really that this project is in the same caliber as the projects that gave rise to Bill No. L 134 from the last collection?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160628	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160629	No.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160633	A commendable short answer. The next rapporteur is Mr. Henning Hylllested, who then has a little distance from the platform now from the questioner to the speaker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223160654	Yeah, so it's gonna take a while to get the switch. It is certainly a good idea to get a new National Natural History Museum, and efforts to gather effort, etc. It is not possible to say anything about it, so I do not want to say much about it. I would like to continue with the line I had in the few questions I have put to a few of the rapporteurs, and that is that frankly I think we should be surprised when we see this: why even a construction law? In our opinion, this does not have the same scope and not the same complexity as for example. I have mentioned a new motorway, the new runway Copenhagen-Ringsted, the Fehmarn fixed link, and the metro construction I have mentioned. I do not think it can reasonably be claimed that this project will come up in the same class and that a construction law on the project should therefore be necessary, I simply do not understand. I can also see from the consultation answer we have received from the City of Copenhagen that they do wonder about this too, and they write directly that it does not have a size, a complexity or a character that justifies the project being carried out under a construction law. After all, it is a consultation answer from the municipality in which the project is to be implemented. I think we should also be surprised. It is even more strange when you look at the fact that the local plan for the project has actually been drawn up, namely local plan 532. I also think it is worth noting the comments of the draft law and again also the consultation answer of the City of Copenhagen, which I think is very important. For it is clear, both in the comments, and it is also stated in the Copenhagen City Council's consultation answer, that the Construction Act follows local plan 532. Then again, why a construction law? It seems strange. I also find it remarkable, as the City of Copenhagen also points out, that the Danish Building Agency has participated in the preparation of exactly the local plan, but has not mentioned at any time, at least according to the City of Copenhagen, that there would be a construction law to regulate the project. That's probably because it wasn't planned at the time, it wasn't planned like that, so somebody must have made it up. There, of course, one might ask oneself: why did one suddenly come up with a construction law? That is enough because, as I have also indicated in my questions, you have wanted to ensure the momentum of the project. It was something we learned during the construction of the Metrocity ring: the momentum. Since it was all about to end in chaos it's a wildly exaggerated expression when the residents' complaints came in and something got suspensive effect etc. etc. And one almost got the impression that the whole Metrocityring project was under threat, we were really told that it was now a matter of ensuring the momentum. It is evident that this is the case here too, and that is why the right to appeal is being restricted, and the local planning process is being put out of effect if changes are to be made to the local plan, that is to say if changes are to be made to the project along the way. Like I said, it sounds familiar to me. This is the result of the mess over construction, which gave rise to legislative proposal L 134 last year in connection with the implementation of the EIA directive on railways, roads, ports and so on, and we also had it in draft law L 102 from last year, and this was the question of restricting access to justice. I do not think you need to be particularly conspiratorial to see that this is a trick here, and the inspiration has certainly come from what can be called the former Ministry of Transport and Building, that is, before it was merged into the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing and therefore, again, submitted draft law L 134. I think it is unacceptable to restrict the right of appeal. In fact, I believe that this is contrary to the Aarhus Convention, as I also argued in the case of L 134 at the time, which should give rise to easy and cheap review and not just in court. It also nullifies the local planning process. In fact, if there are wide-ranging deviations, a new local plan and a new consultation will have to take place. In the case of the repeal of a local plan, neighbouring consultations shall be up to 8 weeks, and if a derogation from the local plan is to be granted, two weeks shall be required. So, as the City of Copenhagen itself points out, the municipality is also sidetracked. That's why the municipality like to highlight in their consultation answer that they want to decide on this project, and so they have drawn up a local plan as they should, but are, as it were, being disregarded by the construction law here.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161227	Thank you to the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. Next in line, sir. Villum Christensen, Liberal Alliance.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161240	Thank you for that, President. The bill here is a construction law for the Natural History Museum of the State, which is to be located in the Botanical Garden. In view of the complexity of the project we have already heard this and the location of the project has been chosen by the bill to derogate from certain rules of the Planning Act. This means, among other things, that some of the ordinary complaints are removed from the project, while nature and environmental considerations continue to be taken care of, and the Liberal Alliance can well support this.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161314	Thank you to the rapporteur. Then it's the next one in line, and that's sir. Roger Matthisen, the alternative.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161324	Thank you for that, President. L 131, proposal for a law on the construction of a new National Natural History Museum, is in itself fantastic, and we are privileged as capital and as a country to have a new facility of this scale. I would like to point out that the alternative is very happy and we support it and support it. It's been a long time along the way. The whole connection with the fact that we are now getting research and teaching, and that we can excite the curiosity of both our young schoolchildren and children and researchers, is very good. Like both the rapporteur for the DF and the rapporteur for the Enhedslisten, I am also a little surprised that we need a construction law, but I will allow myself to be astonishing without being dogmatic. I really think that there are a number of issues that we should perhaps have clarified, and that is also why we cannot support the proposal until we, like ourselves, have uncovered them. One of the arguments put forward by the rapporteur is that there are major risks involved in the project. We have had major overruns in the past and where should the funding come from to these overruns? So that's why it has to be a construction law. One of my questions is: where should the funding come from now when it is a construction law? Well, does it make it easier to find funding when it's a construction law? Does this make it easier in the collaboration with the City of Copenhagen, which is the developer or deciding building authority for the project? So these questions about funding, about inclusion, about ensuring progress, I think we should have uncovered before we can at least take a decision from the alternative. So for now, we cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161555	We thank the rapporteur. There are no brief comments. The next rapporteur is Mrs Sanne Bjørn, Radical Left.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161610	Thank you. The Minister of Transport has put forward proposals to create a construction law for the construction of the National Natural History Museum. Radical Left is very much looking forward to the construction, because with the construction work it is a fantastic new institution that can really create this modern and exciting framework for the Natural History Museum and become an important attraction in Copenhagen. It is a collection of museums and it will be incredibly exciting to follow the construction. It's also a complex building. We need to dig deep, and there may be complications. That is some of what we have discussed, and we therefore agree to support the creation of a construction law which means that we also take political responsibility for construction. So we are prepared to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161701	Thank you. The next in line is Mrs. Kirsten Normann Andersen, SF. Mrs Kirsten Normann is then not present in the Chamber, and then we will take Mr Andersen. Anders Johansson of the Conservative People's Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161725	Thank you. The Conservative People's Party can back the bill. The proposal is about creating a new construction law to allow the construction of a new museum of natural history to begin within a clearly defined framework. The project to build a new unified museum for the four existing museums, the Zoological Museum, the Botanical Museum, the Geological Museum and the Botanical Garden, was decided over 10 years ago. The aim is to create a reinforced interdisciplinary, multidisciplinary dissemination in the field of science, and this is a purpose which we can of course support, and we think it is a very good project. I am sure that it will be a great pleasure and benefit for the Copenhageners and for the tourists and for the rest of the country. The draft law creates a clear legal framework for the project, so as to avoid some of the challenges that could otherwise arise, such as: I would just like to say with those comments that the Conservative People's Party supports the bill.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161823	Thank you. Then we have been able to give the floor to the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223161832	Thank you. Since the merger of the four Natural History Museums, the Zoological Museum, the Botanical Museum, the Geological Museum and the Botanical Garden, to the Natural History Museum of the State, there has been a desire to build a new, unified museum because the current facilities are outdated. Thus, the State and the University of Copenhagen agreed in 2006 that a new Natural History Museum of the State should be built in connection with the Botanical Garden. The project for the establishment of the Natural History Museum of Denmark is a construction project with significant risks. This is due to the unique nature of the project, including the museum's volume, location, complexity and the fact that the museum is primarily built as buildings underground. Therefore, a proposal for a construction law for the project is put forward. The Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing applies construction laws for most major construction projects and has good experience with it. Construction laws thus help to keep the projects within the agreed timetables and budgets. In a slightly simplified way, the Construction Act gives us both the assurance that we in the project will take into account the necessary considerations, for example. the environment, nature and conservation, and the assurance that the project will not come to a standstill due to long complaints. The Construction Act therefore establishes a more simple administrative setup to ensure the project's momentum, so that we avoid running into costly delays. Let me illustrate this with a little technical example. The buildings in the project must be built approx. 12 to 14 m under terrain and therefore a temporary groundwater reduction will be required during construction. In this context, there will be, among other things: be set up enclosures to ensure that intrusive water in the construction pit is significantly reduced. But water must be pumped from the building pit so that it is not flooded during construction. This water will be re-infiltrated as it is technically called. That means as much as the water is pumped into the ground again outside the building pit. The purpose of this is to ensure that there is no groundwater sinking outside the building pit that can affect the surrounding areas and cause sentence damage to the nearby buildings. This reinfiltration will require authorisation under the Environmental Protection Act, even if the water is cleaned beforehand. This permission must be granted by the City of Copenhagen, and this is not changed by the law. However, a decision authorising such reinfiltration may be brought before the Environmental and Food Complaints Board, which may choose to allow the complaint to have suspensive effect, so that the work must be stopped. The length of proceedings for such a complaint depends, of course, on the complexity of the case, but may be as much as one year. Delays in a project such as the establishment of the National Natural History Museum can, at worst, amount to an additional cost of DKK 400,000-500,000. a day. The project can therefore be substantially increased by delays, and this is the reason for the proposal for a civil engineering law derogating from certain laws as well as complaints related to a number of laws. Having said that, it is also important to note that this is merely a derogation from the administrative right of appeal. The proposal does not alter the fact that, as in the past, decisions must be taken in accordance with the rules of the said law. Nature and environmental considerations will thus continue to be addressed in the project and the necessary mitigation measures will be implemented. In addition, there will continue to be general access to legal proceedings. Overall, this is a unique project with significant risks, based on the experiences of the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing from other construction projects, most appropriately regulated by a construction law. Without a construction law, the project should have a completely different construction budget with substantially larger reserves. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the good and constructive debate on the project and for your support for it.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162317	Thank you very much, Minister. There is, for the time being, one brief comment, and it is from Mr Seligman. Henning Hylllested, Enhedslisten. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162324	Yes, the debate is not quite over. One of the problems with the metro construction at the time when the complaints arose and arrived was, in my opinion at least, that the people behind the metro construction were to such an extent some clusters for communicating with the neighbors and those who complained. I would venture to claim that, if it had been taken seriously, someone could complain about the massive noise caused by the construction of the subway system around the clock, then it would have been possible to get very far and avoid many of the complaints and thus also some of the suspensive effects. It is, after all, another way to go that, in the case of a building, it is actually arranged so that the complaints are actually avoided. I know that, of course, there is always an opportunity for people to complain, but if you take your information and your communication commitment seriously, then I really do believe that you could avoid many of the complaints that you get. I think that this has too much to say: we do not want to listen to their troubles, and we do not want to risk suddenly having some kind of complaint which then has suspensory effect.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162453	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162455	No, it is in recognition that it is a very complicated and complex construction that we are dealing with here, and then it is in recognition that the introduction of construction laws is a quite normal practice in Denmark and often used before. We have, for example. here recently discussed a construction law for Haderup Omfartsvej, which is a considerably less complex building and construction than this building of the Natural History Museum of the State. So it's something we know about, and it works really, really well, and there's no reason to pretend that it's something very bad and something very suspicious that we're doing it in this case too.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162536	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162538	No, it is not, it is being done in public, and I fully agree with that. We have also adopted this L 134, which I have mentioned several times, which, of course, allows the Ministry of Transport to push through projects without taking the right of appeal so seriously. There are only the courts, and that is where I say that if it is not contrary, then it is at least on the edge of the Aarhus Convention, which should provide easy and cheap access to a judicial trial. And that's what you're out in here. It has become perfectly normal in the Ministry of Transport that when you carry out an infrastructure project, you use them here. You don't have to do that. You could also use the second part, as you do in the Ministry of the Environment, where you follow closely the EIA directive and the opportunity there to have a slightly easier court-like decision than exactly the courts, in other words, where you follow the normal complaint process that we have always known in connection with EIA projects.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162648	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162649	Yes, but it was only a few weeks ago that we were discussing the construction law for Haderup omfartsvej in this Chamber. Actually, I don't really remember about sir. Henning Hyllested and Enhedslisten at that time said yes or no to the law. I think it was said that there were some advantages in getting rid of Haderup, but that there might still be some reservations. But there were no reservations about the fact that it was a construction law. So I think it has to be acknowledged that many good construction laws have been adopted in this Parliament, and that has resulted in many good results. The result here of a construction law will also be better than if you build it without a construction law, because it will involve risks for some very significant delays and a very substantial increase in the project if you do not do it as a construction law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162745	The next question is Mr. Roger Matthisen, the alternative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162749	Thank you. And thank you to the Minister for the speech. As I said, in the alternative, we are indeed critical, but not dogmatic on this point, actually just a little wondering, although I really think it is a very good example that the Minister has just given us, with Haderup omfartsvej, which we also supported, in other words, in relation to the fact that it is a construction law. The Minister talks about the fact that only administrative redress has been refused here. Nature and environmental considerations are still being respected. Can the Minister say whether there is any other difference? In other words, what we are concerned about is in relation to citizen involvement, in relation to transparency in the process. Will it be as big as if the local plan were used that way around instead?
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162840	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162842	Well, there will be citizen involvement and there will be a public debate about the project at all. And hopefully there will be a majority in the Folketing who voted in favour of this law, which will be able to be hung up on it if the project is somehow derailed, also in relation to the surrounding community. So I think that's a good way to do it. We also see it in connection with the construction law that we have adopted on the Fehmarnbelt link. We are now ready to build on the Danish side, while the Germans are running the old-fashioned process with a multitude of complaints coordinated by interest groups and competitors who do not want to have a ferry route abandoned, which means that they spend years dealing with these complaints, instead of doing as in Denmark, where you have the debate before, where you have the consultation before, and then you adopt a construction law.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162942	The questioner.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223162944	I do not entirely agree with the Minister. Many of the experts I meet on the environment tell us that when they are invited to expert hearings in our Parliament, the decision has already been taken across parties. And in this way, they just feel like they're talking to the deaf. However, the City of Copenhagen has raised some concerns, including: the case that should be and where I can understand it being recognised. So I just want to say thank you for your speech. It's made me smarter.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223163024	The minister.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223163026	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223163028	Thank you. No one else has asked to speak, and that is the end of the debate. I propose that the bill be referred to the Transport, Building and Housing Committee. And if no one objects, I consider it adopted. It's agreed.
ParlaMint-DK_20170223163046	Then there is no more to be done in this meeting. The next meeting of the Danish Parliament will be held tomorrow, Friday 24 February 2017, at 12.00 p.m. 10:00. I shall refer to the agenda set out in the Danish Parliament's website.
